There are two different main ways that people can find happiness. One is pursuing their own dreams and goals. Another way is helping others or improving humanity. It seems like nowadays most people are very focused on themselves, and get happiness when their own personal goals and dreams are fulfilled. They sort of put blinders on and don't really pay attention to the needs of others. Then you have the other type of people who are very aware of others and their needs and get complete fulfillment by helping them. I know some people who live very frugually just so they can donate to food banks. And that makes them happy!

I believe most people are more likely to be happy if they focus on meeting or pursuing their own personal goals. Their goals are most important to them and what they determine is important to their happiness. Although others may find happiness when their attention is fixed on the happiness of others, I believe these people are in the minority.

From the time we are small, we try to meet different goals in life. When we are young,
we want to learn to walk, and when we achieve that we move on to another goal. As we meet each goal, it gives a good feeling about ourselves, which in turn makes us happy.
I believe most people are very focused on themselves, so therefore their happiness of meeting goals will satisfy them the most. When we work hard to reach things that are important, it makes us feel good inside.

From the time we are young, we are taught material things are important. So we work hard to get a good job to buy things that we think will make us happy. For example, a nice house, or car. So these become goals of sorts and as we meet those goals , we want more and more. So we set different goals. And we find happiness that way.

There also quite a few people who get happiness by focusing on others. They may volunteer to help the less fortunate, or find a charity to support. This is important to them and will give them a feeling of pride and accomplishment. These people tend to be less selfish and put others needs before their own. As they help people, it causes them to feel happy.        

Although there many different ways that people can find happiness, I believe the majority will find the most happiness when their personal needs are met (personal goals are being met). Most people are so focused on themselves that will be the way they find happiness. There are the less selfish who will focus on others, but unfortunately, those people are in the minority. I do think the world would be a better place if we found more happiness in helping others and focusing less on ourselves. 

In conclusion, I would say people are more likely to be happy if they focus on others, but I don't think the majority of people will agree with that and will continue to focus on themselves. The happiest people I know focus more on others. They help others however they can.



