Mostly people achieve success by competition but i for one, do not, and I definently do not agree that there is only one way to achieve more success. According to history, Competition is not always a bad thing. As for example, Call of Duty got wind of other competetors and the success they were having in their gaming market, and did a total 180 by adding the game "Warzone", which boosted the sales and success of Call of Duty. 

Cooperation is the key to major success not more, but major success. If you share a dream with someone and you both work towards that goal, It boost morale, trust, loyalty, and team work, gaining more success than the other company; Whose putting their own team against each other in competition to aquire some ridicoulous goal, lowering trust, teamwork, morale, and raising negativity in the work place. For example, A job I worked for in the past, put me and my fellow co-workers against each other to see who could obtain the best numbers for the week. It promoted distrust because many of the employees were cheating and helping each ohter boost ones number, leaving so one whos doing it the correct way behind.

I would honestly agree that success by competition is more favorable and has better results, but for a person like me, I for one dislike competitions and I lean more towards cooperation in business. If you could work together to establish a plan and a motive, You should be destined to aquire some form of success. As they always two heads is better than one. 

Cooperation and Competition to achieve more success also goes hand and hand with each other. For one you can not achieve success all by yourself. You would need the help of many others to boost and improve your success to thefore, compete with those who cooperation and teamwork is fairly better than yours, or your business.

In conclusion, You should promote competition agaisnt the opposing companies, not amongst your own team. I would personally try out both methods and see which one favors my or the goal I'm going for. I am not one to say, "I beat you again this week co-worker." Especially when all of us are not at an even palying field. I would much rather communicate and trust my teammate or co-worker on behalf of reaching a goal that we are both satisfied with. I believe that people achieve more success by cooperation, besides how do we think teams win championships. Its competition against the opposition.
