In a well-devloped society, every member of the society spend a great deal of time in edcuating themselves for the purpose of acquiring the necessary skills and knowledge that can be put to use when they become working adults. Today's world is highly specialized, as each person may take on a very specific role or function in their workplace, but the specialization takes time to develop. Cooperation among members of society allows one to achieve more because it can combine diverse knowledge into useful products without each one having to learn each area of knowledge.

Corporations hire talented individuals from across the globe. Large companies that are known for innovative technology, such as Google, Genentech, or Illumina, especially rely on workers with different background and specialties. Their workforce comprise of both English speakers and non-English speaker, U.S. citizens and noncitizens. So long as they have a relevant experience, they are highly desired by companies. By cooperating, these diverse workforce combine their respective knowledge together and deliver powerful products that are used in billions of households around the world.

Psychologists have found that people with a competitive mindset are generally more persistent and achieve higher. They tend to progress consistently up the social ladder because they have the continous drive to succeed. However, there is a limit on how far an individual's competitiveness can bring the person if he or she does not cooperate with others. While one may be talented at certain skills or field of knowledge, one cannot possibly be the best at everything. For example, a persuasive writer can produce informative and touching stories about a subject, but he might not necessarily be well-versed in the field of securities trading. Now suppose the writer is tasked to advertise for a finanical institution about its new derivative product. Without the knowledge of time value, various definition of interest rates, and accepted pricing methods for derivatives, the writer cannot procure an effective advertisement. The writer needs to cooperate with someone else knowledgeable in the derivatives market.


