When considering whether images and impressions have too much of an effect on people one may think primarily of advertising. It certainly seems that the professionals who are paid and trained to create advertising are very effective at manipulating an individual's or consumer's imagination to create inferences and false impresssions. This has a result of often leading someone away from actual reality, or at least creating confusion about what the singular and factual reality is.
While advertising and clever, well tested, and professionally produced packaging may be forgiven and tolerated as an adjunct of capitalist commerce, and often sincerely appreciated as a proper source of information about a product, service, or entity, it becomes a more problematic communication devise when used for such things as politics and ideologies. Effective communication involves human psychology as well as reading, hearing, and remembering facts. It involves presenting more than meets the eye by implication, reference, emotion, and choice of vocabulary. In the United States (at least) appearances have been manipulated into a spectrum of realities by new communication technologies such as social media and the communicating expertise of well trained, highly motivated practitioners. The delivery of algorithmically chosen images and impressions also complicates the accurate understanding one may have of the world around us. Globally, political and ideological preferences are marketed by those who use the technique of manipulated appearances to propagandize issues that often result in the most serious and destructive consequences. Unfortunately, an overuse of false impressions can cause mistrust of everything including the messenger - so some may mistrust and despise Fox news while respecting CNN, and some may have the opposite impression of reality.
Although polarization and the absence of a singular reality can be seriously destabilizing consequences when advertising is used for social and political issues, it cannot be denied that advertising technology greatly enhances commerce and the flow of communication in many non critical areas of life. Therefor, one cannot say absolutely that images and impressions always have a negative, misleading effect on citizens and consumers. It is important to consider how the very complicated tools of advertising are being used in each circumstance and what the goal of the impressions might be. And in today's very complex and interdependent modern world, a good bit of advise might be to always take the time and make an effort to look for a variety of claims, opinions, and assertions to reason out an objective truth.
