"Greed can be good", is a quote we're all familiar with and it strikes us. Why? It's because we know there is some truth in it. Although right away we tend to believe the search for wealth and material things is morally wrong, I'd like to point out why materialism can actually be a good thing and why modern society should never be criticized for being materialistic.

First of all let's go over why it can be a good thing. It's a motivator. Sure we're all motivated by the search for love and other deeply held beliefs, but what about our daily life? What gets us up in the morning? Where can we find happiness in our daily struggle? Money and possessions are the answer! While we continue the search for deeper meaning in life we also need another motivator on the side. We need stuff and we need it constantly. We also need money so we can buy something to eat. And why not have extra money so we don't have to worry about possibly going hungry for a day or two?

As an example let's say Johnny is completely in love with Cindy. They've been dating for a year now, but Johnny just lost his job. Actually he lost it a couple months ago. This is now affecting Cindy because Johnny has given up and is now starting to borrow money from Cindy. Now they're both still in love but Johnny is now requiring more of Cindy's time. He's also so head over heels that finding work isn't as important as it used to be. He's searching the neighbors' yards for flowers he can pick for Cindy. He's lost his balance. He's given up on materialism. He no longer yearns to get up early, find that job and get his life back on track which would actually be what Cindy would find most attractive.

There are some who'd say that materialism isn't good for anything and at times morally wrong. I say this isn't the case. God gave us brains, hands for physical work and motivation to get up everyday and fight for what we deserve. God is a worker. The job is never done and it should never end for us. Work is good as well as the fight for improving our lives which also equals materialism and the search for better things and financial wealth. There is nothing wrong with wanting to improve our status, comfort level, financial well being and of course, possessions.

Clearly we need that purpose. We need that thirst for better things. We need that work always. It's who we are. It makes us better and it gives us purpose. For lack of a better quote, "Greed can be good" as it makes us real fighters in our daily struggles.

