Society has always had a materialism problem. As consumerism has increased, many people have taken it upon themselves to make their lives more materialistic. Does this actually benefit them? I do not believe so. I believe that materialism is, in its essence, the bane to our society. 
Many people today buy things that they cannot afford in order to obtain a higher social status. In doing this, they put themselves into debt. Debt can lead to a lot of things: financial distress, depression, and loss of things we actually need to survive, such as vehicles or homes. By purchasing items we cannot actually afford, we are hurting both ourselves and our peers because they will also be encouraged to pursue material gains. 
I believe that society should be severely criticized for pursuing materialistic wants over other more important things. I see so many people in my day to day life that are only interested in getting the newest everything. New clothes, new phones, new shoes, a new car, all when their current materialistic items are sufficient enough for survival. 
I believe our focus into materialistic items has also caused environmental harm. Instead of fixing what we currently own, as we would have in the earlier days, we are disposing of items that are probably perfectly usable and perfectly fixable if we'd only take the time to not seek out newer items. These items end up in landfills, and a lot of them, especially the electronic items, are not able to decompose quickly. This causes more pollution. Another thing that causes more pollution and damage to the environment is that we are encouraging higher production of these items just because we feel the need to get something "new" and "high status." It isn't necessary and we are disconnecting ourselves from what we truly need to connect to, such as nature and our families and our communities.
The idea that materalism is good for our economy sounds like a good argument to support it, but it just isn't. The more people who go into debt, the more our economy suffers. Also, people may be less inclined to focus on things that would improve their actual lives, such as home repairs, and purchase things just to have them instead. This causes real estate values to decrease, which also harms the economy.  
In conclusion, I do believe society should be criticized for it's overuse of material purchases. I think it causes harm both to independent consumers as well as to consumers as a whole. It also causes harm to our environment. We all need to take a step back from over spending and pursuing the newest thing and instead look inward and find our place in the world without the baggage of excess materialism. I think if we got back to our roots, society could heal. 
