Friend or foe? As children, we are often encouraged to engage in both cooperation and competition with our peers. When we grow up, still we are met with daily challenges that can be solved by either working together or getting ahead. To achieve the most success, however, we must possess the skill of cooperation. 

Cooperation means working together to achieve a goal. The benefits of this include multiple people with more combined experience coming up with the best idea to ultimately have a greater chance of success in accomplishing the task at hand. Increasing the total amount of experiences combined with individuals having cooperation skills will only benefit the greater cause. 

While working together, relationships are also built which increases the effectiveness of communication going forward in the event of having to solve addition problems. In a workplace setting, this benefits not only the individuals who are increasing their communication and cooperation skills, but also the business in that future problems may be solved more efficiently. These relationships create trust and innovation which can be leveraged to meet and exceed the goals of the business. 

If we look at this from another perspective, we may think that a healthy competition is better suited for maximizing results. We may point to the olympic sport of the 100 yard dash as a great example of success rooted in competition. However, if you look behind the scenes of the greatest 100 yard dash athlete, you will find a whole team of people working together to gain that success. The athlete will have a team of coaches, nutritionists, medical care and supportive people around them in cooperation as they push to be the fastest runner. Without those people, it would be next to impossible for the athlete to win the competition.  

As we think about successful individuals, we cannot forget about their support system, their team of contributors, and most importantly, their cooperation skills. In our own pursuit of success, we would do well to consider our own cooperation with others. Together we will succeed.  
