I view materialism to be an interesting topic of discussion. Some people may want to demonize it while others worship the thought of it. Everyone must find a way to provide for themselves and their families, so when does shopping go from being just that to being materialism? Who draws the line?  I don't believe anyone should be criticizing society for being materialistic because it isn't your  decision to make, it isn't your call.

Materialism should not be condemned because without it, how would our society function? If materialism is literally the buying and selling of goods, we all do it. We all need things to survive, we all buy things to trigger our dopamine production. Sometimes you just want to throw caution to the wind and buy that new phone or a new video game. Life can be hard, so finding joy in something shouldn't be looked down upon. As long as you aren't hurting anyone with what you are doing, I don't think you should be judged for it.

We will all pass away eventually, it is an inevitable part of life. You can't take anything with you to the grave. There is no point in not spending what you have earned during your life to make your life better for yourself and your family. Some people, even myself included, may ask why not donate what you have earned? I am sure some of you do, but you shouldn't be expected to give up your happiness for the happiness of others. If having a new item makes you happy, buy it.

There is more to life than just penny pinching. What else would you spend the money on? Why do you make the money in the first place? If your bills are paid and you have nothing else to spend money on, why wouldn't you want to buy something for yourself or friends and family? It makes no sense to just sit there with a pile of money in your bank and no use for it. If you invest it, you will just be making more money. It isn't a bad idea to invest, but what will you be doing with more money? You will be buying more things. Money is there to literally buy items. Materialism exists because money exists. Anyone who judges society for being too materialistic isn't looking at the situation realistically. What else would you expect society to do? Buying anything can be considered materialism.

What do you do for the people who would lose their jobs if people stopped buying anything? It is like an ecosystem. Everything works together in harmony. People work to make items, ship items, people buy those items, money exchanges hands and society continues on. I do not believe materialism itself is a bad thing. People should be able to live their lives how they want to as long as it's within legal reason. I am not the one earning the money, thus I shouldn't have a say in how that money is spent.
