I do not believe in happiness, or at least, I have always consider happiness to be a mood, not a goal.  It is a mood that can be spurred by accomplishing goals, however, but even that connection can be tenuous and unreliable.  One can be very accomplished and yet never be happy, and one can be very happy and accomplish very little.  So from that standpoint, whether one focuses on their own goals or the needs of others to achieve happiness is a false dichotomy; it never needs to be one or the other. You can do all of the above and still be quite miserable.  Still, I must concede that happiness can be derived from accomplishment, and I believe that all accomplishments are the result of personal goals -- even if those goals are to make others happy, they are still personal goals.  So I believe that to achieve some moments of happiness, one should focus on their own goals, whatever they may be.

Altruism is a wonderful core personal trait, but it does not guarantee your own satisfaction.  I have gone to clothing drives to distribute clothes to the homeless, and we had to have a personal security guard stop people from jumping into the truck we were distributing things from.  While we were doing good, we were miserable.  I have worked at a church distributing food on Thanksgiving Day, and while we were certainly making sure that people had turkeys and canned cranberry to take back to their families, we also had to be on the lookout for people entering the line twice to take more than their due -- this, too, was unpleasant.  Here we have two occasions where I did something to better the lives of others, and did not come out of it with any sort of glow or good mood.  Yet these tasks were worth doing.  Altruism for the sake of one's own happiness is a trap, because truly altruistic actions can be unpleasant, uncomfortable or render you unhappy.

My personal goals mainly revolve around creative writing -- it has always been my desire to write a novel.  And I have at times worked diligently towards this, but I have more often  been discouraged because this task, too, while very meaningful to me, is not a pleasant one. In fact, it's exhausting and drudgerous.  I have developed carpal tunnel working on stories that have met their end in a shredder.  I have hurt the feelings of my close friends and wallowed in the painful moments of my past to no profit.  I have lost months to efforts that were ultimately fruitless. I suppose the end result -- my name in print, a big check, royalties for life -- would fill me with material satisfaction, but working towards satisfaction is a trap I have fallen into too many times, because the short-term exhaustion can overpower any long-range fantasies.

I imagine people will say: This is quite dour, you cannot discard happiness as a concept. But I do not discount happiness as a concept, I only refuse to treat it as a goal in and of itself.  It is a byproduct of accomplishing other goals -- by performing charity or writing a novel, I increase my likeliness of experiencing this mood.  And I believe that by attempting to be happy by doing these things, I am lusting for a result that is not inevitable. I am putting so much pressure on happiness to manifest that it likely will not, or cannot.  I might equate it to a virginal young man who, after aching for sexual intercourse for most of his teenaged life, is left empty after their first encounter, which they had thought would be grand, has turned out to be merely one in a parade of small pleasures.

A man achieving his own goals increases the net amount of good in the world, as does a man helping others.  I think to attempt to calculate which is more good than the other is unfair, because each of us can only contribute what we can contribute based on our own circumstances. I often have no money to give away, nor any time, and I do not believe that would entitle me to more misery than someone with the free time and money to pursue unlimited altruism. And I certainly would not chastise the charity worker for not chasing down their dreams of a career in poetry or music; their works are wonderful dreams and ends in and of themselves. Each path is equally worthy, and filled with its own unique unhappiness and happiness in equal measure.

Ultimately then, working towards happiness is the single best way to never achieve it.  Doing good works to help others is a fine pursuit, as is chasing one's own dreams, and ideally these things would be wrapped up in each other.  But the goals must be for their own sake, or there will be no reward.  Happiness is not the paycheck at the end of the workweek, but rather a winning lottery ticket found in the corner of the room while sweeping up.  In the meanwhile, one should do their job, and collect from it the rewards of that job, and then allow a smile to crack your face as a surprise.  I do not expect this to be a popular frame of looking at the world, yet I believe this will supply better results than most.
