Happiness is something that is universal for all humans, but the way that human beings achieve happiness is something that has a myriad of different routes. The primary consideration we have here is if happiness can be better achieved through through reaching for personal goals, or through aiming to improve the happiness of others or to just generally try to improve humanity. In my mind, the best way to try and achieve happiness is to try and reach your own personal goals. This is much more universal, and is in fact part of both ways to try and achieve happiness.

The reason why this is the best way to achieve happiness is that there are more people who have the reaching of personal goals as their primary motivation in life. While it is true that trying to improve the happiness of others is undoubtedly rewarding, the baseline is that it takes a very specific type of person to have that as a primary goal/happiness goal. On a more general level, the reaching of personal goals is more likely to lead to happiness since more people have that as a goal. Not everyone is motivated by the idea of trying to improve the happiness of others, but on the other hand, the drive to achieve personal goals is universal for all humans. In fact, the goal of trying to achieve happiness through improving the happiness of others is actually a personal goal itself. 

One other thing is that paradoxically, the goal to help others achieve happiness is a personal goal in and of itself. Its not anything innate, and is a concious decision to help others achieve happiness and improve humanity. Once someone decides to try to achieve happiness through improving humanity and the happiness of others, that becomes a personal goal. And once someone achieves happiness for themselves while in this process, they are achieving happiness through personal goal.  It is still altruistic and something that more people should strive for, but it still falls under the universal fact that it is a personal goal, just like all people set personal goals for themselves to try and achieve. By trying to achieve happiness through improving the happiness of others, one is trying to achieve happiness through the completion of a personal goal.   

The idea of gaining happiness through improving humanity is one that is a pretty classic one. The thing is that even that is a personal goal. That does not take away from the altruism of wanting to improve humanity, but that does not change the fact that that is still a personal goal. It is not a selfish goal, or anything bad like that, but it is still a personal goal when someone wants to dedicate themselves to humanity in that sense. 

All in all, these two ways of achieving happiness are both worthy and realistic methods of doing so. However, achieving happiness through fulfilling personal goals is the better method. The reason for this is that even if someone is achieving happiness through improving the happiness of others, they are doing this as a personal goal of themselves. 
