The world today is surrounded by images. How products look on display, how celebrities act in public, and how people appear on social media. And to an untrained eye, if you don't stop and really look at something or break down the information, you're just going to take it at face value. Taking those images and impressions at face value can lead to persuasian, self consciousness, and many other negative emotions because those outward appearances and images do have a lot of effect on people. 

Maybe it's not too much, and maybe it's not even always a bad thing. Little girls seeing grown women kicking butt is an amazing image. Black children seeing Black adults exceling in the world is amazing. Humanzing people and allowing people to see themselves in these images is the best effect they could ever have on somebody. 

However, the problem comes when the images reinforce stereotypes that we have been shown for decades. The problem continues when the images are used to promote hateful things. One image can snowball into so many different problems that we, and generations after us, are left to face. 

Sure, we can chock this up to the media, PR companies, celebrities, and brands that are promoting images that are too to be true. And, don't get me wrong, it's a large part their fault. However, we also need to look at the individuals who use an image that's hopeful for one person as an image that cuts another person down. 

Take for example, Lizzo. She's an inspiration to so many people. And yet, she posts a photo in a bikini (that she chose to post) and is torn down for it. Or, people tell her to workout, so she posts videos of her working out and people comment "you must go and eat an entire pizza after that." She's one person who I know is trying to prove that your image, and the way you look, does not define you — and it's not as important as we were led to believe. 

We as an entire society need to be better from the the top all the way to the bottom. To show people that the image isn't everything. That what's beneath the surface is important too. And it won't change in a day, heck it might not change at all. But if an indivdual can try, and then another one, and then another one, we have the chance to change how the world thinks.
