       While it is important to succeed in the workplace, it is more important to work as an entity in a corporation, non-profit, or for-profit organization. Working together is a strong element of success in acheiving a grand result. It is important to understand that competition is only derived when included for an individual rather than a whole. Some examples of cooperation in team success can be explained.
       Team success is the highest way to acheive results in gaining intrisic and extrinsic results. In order to be successful, the CEO who leads the team, is carried by its predeccessors who create the foundation of success of an organization. It is proven that high morale, group acheivement, and teamwork contributes to the overall success of positive economic and socio-economic status. 
        One of the ways a team can be successful is to invite and incorporate fair policies to everyone, including diversity in which no one is left out, and to also include monetary compensation such as stock options and bonuses equally to everyone. An example is to view the successes of the employees Starbucks is gaining on labor unions. Starbucks employees are leading the way to incorporate employee inclusion of fair pay,  inclusion of diversity, and sends an overall message to the public of how unity can spark overall success as well as delivering good quality products to the consumer. However, there are some arguments that derail from the good work that Starbucks employess are trying to convey.
         Starbucks and its CEO are listening to the feedback of its employees. They do not want unions, and are against unionization because they feel that they can meet the needs of their staff by introducing the needs the employees want as a priority. The CEO and its corporate staff want to ensure they can deliver incentives that are equal without having to lower any benchmark results from their quarterly revenue goals. There are some benefits in having competition that can result in higher pay for employees that deserve being compensated for delivering individual higher level quality, care, and customer consumed products. The argument is valid in stating that employee driven results can in fact disclude the higher incentive employees should receive because of their dedication, and hard work, but will not receive it due to equal pay to all employees despite the individual's employee's acheivements. So the question is, "What is the best solution?"
       While it is important to convey the individualistic views of employee success, it is not acknoweldged as a whole of the team who carry corporations to the goals that they acheive, which in comparison will result in higher turn-over, less benefits, and unfortunately less pay. While it is unfair to not give the highest pay and incentive to the deserved acheivers in an organization, it is detrimental if not, more unfair to leave the other employees who try to work just as efficiently and effectively than the highest ranking employee. Overall, it is imporant to acheive the results as a whole rather than the individual in order to see employee and consumer success. It is proven for the overall whole that is contributed to the success of any organization.
