      Materialism is something that we all participate in.  It is acquiring and spending money on possesions that are necesssary and sometimes not necessary.  I believe that modern society should be criticized for being materialistic.  Society today is very focused on who has what and who has the nicer things in life.
        In todays society people like to "keep up with the Jones", meaning we are always trying to top out the next person.  It seems to be very prevalent people thinking designer or high end products symbolize your status.  Today's society requires all people to be in competition for who has more name brand items or fancier things than others.  This is a downfall to society I believe because it takes away from the important things in life like spending time with family and also spending money on things instead of paying bills.  
       Some people will say that materialism isn't a problem in society because we are buying things we enjoy and that having nice expensive things shows that you have a higher status.  Today's society focuses way too much on what people have instead of peoples characters.  There is always an unhealthy competition between others to have the nicest things and if you don't sometimes you are made fun of or not included.  We lose track of what is important in life when we are so busy acquiring things that may not help our quality of life.  Having nice expensive things or large amounts of things does not make you a good human.  
       Also a lot of time is wasted trying to keep up with purchasing the best and it also can cause a lot of stress and energy always worrying about what others have.  An abundunce of things that are not necessary for daily living is also bad for the planet.  Modern society has so much polution and waste from people buying something they will not use just to impress the next person.
        In conclusion, I feel that society should definitely be criticized for being materialistic.  We focus too much energy into out doing other people.  We lose track of the important things in life and a lot of us are financially unstable because we waste money on things that are not necessary.  I think that society would be better off if everyone didn't focus on what they have and focused more on each other.  It should not be a competition, there would be more love in the world if we were not so materialistic.  
