Images and impressions are very powerful tools that influence and can corrupt people's minds.  Often times people will make a judgement call about something that see on various media or situations in a short amount of time.  This has been used effectively throughout the history human interaction to follow the person's message.  

Images and impressions are effectively used by marketers and companies to sell and encourage people to buy products.  Images and impressions are also used by the various sexes to lure people into sexual relationships for love and even financial gain.   The problems with this is that often times, the impressions and images can be used to manipulate people into bad behavior and at times can physically and mentally harm those.  Companies will use celebrities such as athletes and entertainers to pitch their products.  Social media influencers can sell financial products such as cryptocurrencies.  Politicians will use images in political ads to get people to vote for them.  Often times, they are hoping that the images and impressions will sell to the public.  Even if their product is not good and the pitch people dont even use it but are paid to pitch the item.   In the end these companies are hoping that the charisma of the pitchmen will succeed.   

For images sometimes packaging will attract a person to a product that is inferior to other products that have less appealing packaging.  The danger with this, is that while they may look good on the outside, they may be inferior on the inside.  


Impressions leave a mark and images are often the first thing we see.  But at times in order to make a good decision we must view several images of what we are looking/hearing at.  Of the people we meet, a first impression is not always true of the worth or a person or even a product or place.   Images show only a portion of a person, place or a product.  Impressions are important and a positive one (of a politician, celebrity) will help sell a product, an idea or a person.   Good marketing always needs images to create a positive impression to make a good sell especially when the product being pitched is an inferior one to others in competition.                                  

