Images seem to be everything theses days. From the products we use to the politicianss we vote for to the police that protect having a good image is importanT,yet how much of effect do they have on our everyday life.
   Lets take a look. Would you buy a product from the store that looked bad to you probably not, even if that product was better for you if it did not appese your eyes you would probably just by pass it for one that did. So advertisement is key to get your product sold and image is every thing in advertisement. People can be convinced of a lot if the image is good and tghe ads are appeling. It is why our food needs to look good so we will buy it.
  Look at the politicians we elect, the more you see them the more often then not they are elected. Evene if they are unqulified for the job they get elected just because they fit outr image of what looks good. The more you see them the better they are so to speak. Then the smear campaigns to ruin the image of opponenets have gotten bad in politics. If you can ruin the image of your opponent you are doing good.
   Image is not the best indicater of what is good, if you rely just on this then you probably are not getting the full picture of what is good and bad. Although the people who use image as a advertisement or campaign ploys know most people seldom look below the intial image and just go on what they see without gathering actual facts to back up what they see. 
  The fact people are greatly arroused by images, the news one example with their images or words they use to keep people watching. It is importaant for people to try and look beyond what they see. Yet now a days image seems to be all there is. whether it good or bad image has a way of swaying the population and keep the people and products we do not need in the public eye and those we do need in the back ground. Image is not the best indicater of what is good and in my opinion it is used far ro much to promote the bad in our country then it is the good. It is very bad to just use image as an indicater of what you buy watch or vote for. There is to much advertisement and shifty people trying to convince us that there products or people are good because they look good.
   As an answer I say yes oimages have far to much of an effect on our population because to many people stop at the image and never look deeper for the real meaning behind what the image may protray. Images have way to much of a sway over the population. Not onlu because they are fact less but because normally if those who are trying to make something bad look good. Look at the politicians lying or changing their minds so their image can look good. Bad people use image to promote themselves into something good. We as a population should not rely only on what we see because what we see is influenced by those who want us to see what they want us to see or hear or believe and they use image as a big part of keeping us blind from the facts. We do rely on images far to much.
