What is happiness? Is happiness the next object or fancy gadget you want, but do not need? Is happiness derived from externals such as money or vices?  Does happiness come from spending time with your friends or family? Whatever happiness is, happiness is an objective feeling, or construct of your own personal reality. For one person, money may be what makes them happy. For others, it might be devoiding themselves of personal objects like some monk living in Napal. No one can define happiness for any single person, yet I think that most people would agree that many selfhelp books, movies, or novels have conditioned us to believe that true happiness comes from altruisum.

What is altruisum and how does it impact happiness? Altruisum is doing something for some other person or being, without any expectation of personal gain. This may be giving to chairity because you feel it is right, helping an elderly woman put groceries in her car with expectation of gratuity, or feeding a stray dog your leftovers instead of saving the food for yourself. Why is altruisum imporant to happiness? First we need to look at empathy. As humans, we are naturally drawn to be empathetic towards others which is likely an evolutionary response of humans living in groups, as well as an incentive for humans to take care of their young until thier offspring are able to go off and repeat the cycle. 

Some skeptics may point out that true altruisum is not real if the act results in your own satisfaction. This may be a likely counterargument, as humans are also naturally self gratifiers. Skeptics may point to the same fuzzy feeling you get from helping someone can also come from vices such as gambling. Gamblers seek a natural rush, just like drug addicts. They crave the next high and will do anything to get there. Is this akin to someone who is charitable? In the eyes of society, no. Charity is seen as good, while gambling/addiction is seen as bad. Is the warm fuzzy feeling from altruisum the same as the rush a gambler feels when they hit a jackpot. Likely yes. A chemical response, likely dopamine floods your brain when you do help someone or you hit the jackpot. But where this may differ is the amount and the sustainability of the rush. With gambling, you cannot be a winner everyday. And just like drugs one jackpot will need to be superceeded by another, much larger jackpot to give the gambler the same rush. However with altruisum, it's easy to repeat several acts of kindness everyday, day in and day out.

In conclusion, happiness for one person is different for another person. It is the amount of happiness, and the sustainability of happiness that should be the ultimate goal, and this can only be achieved from altruistic acts, devoid of any expectation of return.
 
