Materialism is what the world is all about. Acquring is a very important part of the life experience. Some people are more concerned with what sort of material things they can acquire than others but everybody is interested in acquiring material possessions to some degree.

The same can be seen in many different animal species. They want to get as many things for themselves as possible. Generally the animal would take the thing that it's most interested in and would find the most fun to interact with. The animal would typically become rather possessive of this object and not want others to get near it or touch it. This is a form of materialism.

Humans also are very possessive of their material goods. Humans tend to lock away the most valueable possessions to disuade others from taking them or often times even seeing them. If they are able to be seen there's often high security involved any way. Showing these sort of expensive things is a way that humans can be vain. They want to show off how well they're doing and are trying to make others jealous.

We want the most expensive and fanciest things for ourselves. This allows us to feel good about ourselves. But just feeling good internally is often not enough and we want to show off externally. This causes jealously among others and for others to feel worse about their positions. It can even encourage others to commit crimes if they feel their needs aren't being satisfied.

It's hard to find the right balance between owning things and how we use them. Many people try too hard to show off which comes across badly. Meanwhile if you don't try to show off in any way it can come across badly for the opposite reasons and make you look very poor. So striking a good balance is rather difficult.

Overall materialism is just part of the human experience and there's little we can do to change it. It's something that we have to learn how to work with and around. It's always in our power to behave different and react to different parts but we can't change what's inheriently in our genes.
