I am a very competitive person.  I admit it.  I love to compete and win.  However, cooperation is essential in work and socical environments.  

Have you ever worked on a team and been assigned a duty?  It's best for a team to divide assignments up that enhances an individual's talents.  When I was in nursing school, we were divided in groups to perform tasks regarding a specific culture.  The assignment was to give a presentation about the cultural traditions surrounding the birth of a child.

My group chose Korea.  We were very fortunate to have a woman in the class who could sew.  She made a little dress in the colors that are used in Korea for a baby.  I admit she was the strongest person in the group and because she did so well that teams who were less prepared were also given an "A" for the assignment.  Had I been chosen to make a dress, I would have had to go to a professional seamstress.  My part in the project was to write about Korean traditions and give a speech about them to the class.  I don't mind writing or public speaking, so this was my strong suit.  However, had it not been for the cooperation within our group, my speech would have not have been enough to earn earn us a good grade.  And it certainly wouldn't have helped the others in the class.

Competition can be a good thing.  You try harder.  You compete against yourself as well as others.  Direct competion pushes you forward.  

However, cooperation is still best.  Look at professional sports teams.  Every player wants to shine.   Every player wants to stand out and be the best.  But ultimately, the team must work together in unity to beat the other team.  Players cannot simply act on their own ideas during a game.  It may work occasionally, such as the quarterback running the football for a touchdown.  It won't work always, though.  The quarterback can't run the ball every single time.  He would get tackled, get hurt, and cause the team to lose the game.  The other team would have been able to easily anticipate his moves.  His team would likely be frustrated not only with the loss, but with the quarterback himself.  Everyone has a specific role on a football team, and it involves working together to win the game.  

Look at the war in Ukraine.  How have the people of Ukraine managed to stand against the enemy for so long?  It's because they are working together to fight against the Russians.  They are fighting against evil and winning.    
