Do images and impressions have too great of an effect on the way we behave or see others? I think so! We are constantly being bombarded by visual cues from everywhere, the ads on TV, your smartphone, billboards while we drive down the road, etc.. there seems to be no escape from the inundation of propaganda constantly heing pushed on us. 

We have also been raised in a society that values appearence, both physical and otherwise: look at Hollywood, commercials, models... even our cereal boxes are made to look visually pleasing to the eye. But we all know that appearences can be decieving, look to the politician who, although he appears clean and tidy by appearence and goes to church; actually involves himself in shady backroom deals, a lack of love for God and constant marital issues. Some people turn a blind eye or only focus on what thier chosen brand of "media" is showing them, or in the least because of his appearence they choose to look the other way. (Tucker Carlson comes to mind as a prime example, here is a man so many people look up to because of his good looks and way of speaking that they ignore the nonesense and vivitrol he spits out and has also had his fair share of scandel).

We value appearence too much, and it's usually our first impression that sticks. We all know the axiom "Don't judge a book by its cover" but we rarely follow this advice. Look at any "healthy" brand of cereal that has a colorful/visually pleasing package, now turn it over and read the ingredient list... pretty awful isn't it.. but we've been primed by our eyes for so long to grab what looks the best on the box. 

This also translates into other, far more deeper aspects of our lives. I know I've been guilty of allowing my preconcieved notions to poison good relationships or to not be able to see other points of view, we "walk" into a sitution "knowing" how we feel about it or at least what we've seen: the person with a slouch or messy clothes makes you stiffen up when you talk to them, conversly someone who looks dapper you may humble yourself before them. We must be careful of our eyes... they decieve us.

Think of David and Bathsheba, or even Solomon or Moses... they allowed thier eyes to blind them from the Kingdom and Purpose set before them, how much more so is it in our age? To that end I implore you, to try to see with your heart and mind.. analyze what is being shown to you and WHY it is being shown to you.. what is the purpose and what are they trying to get you to agree with?

How many young men and women find so much importance in how they dress, look or what they own instead of looking at what matters most? And how does that effect how they treat themselves and others? All too often the girl or guy at the club who is dressed to the 9 and having a good time is usually trying to escape some form of trauma or hurt or pain. We all where masks so people can "come to us" easier instead of just being genuine... I think this is directly related to the fact that we put too much stock in appearence or how things are shown to us, rather than what they truly are. 

Our culture has ingrained in us this need to place such importance on visuals and what's pleasing to the eye, but I think I've shown that we need to practice restraint and "see" with our "hearts" and 
