       The advent of commercialism, materialism, advertising, radio, television, internet, and social media has contributed many good and beneficial improvements to society. These contributions have also inserted a few detrimental anomalies in the way that these affect individuals and society as a whole. Barbie Dolls make women and little girls feel ashamed because they feel their bodies cannot compare. A result of this is plastic surgery and botox injections in vain attempts to achieve the impossible standard. The arrival of Facebook has made people put only pictures of their perfect happy families on their perfect vacations with their perfect lives. This makes others see these hand selected images and wonder why their lives are not perfect and wonderful all of the time. This leads to failed relationships and broken families because certain people are chasing the unattainable. Instagram influencers spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to have someone photoshop their pictures so that even the slightest  hint of cellulite is removed. People look in the mirror and cannot understand why they do not have perfect chiseled bodies free of all wrinkles and cellulite. They have to start anxiety and depression medications because the feel inferior to the rest of the world. The conclusion is simple. Images and Impressions have far too much of an effect on people. 
       Many will say that Barbie dolls are merely toys and they are not harmful to women or little girls. Barbie dolls have been an iconic toy for girls for decades and little girls have dreamed of being perfect like Barbie with her perfect "Dream House" and her dream car and perfect friends and perfect boyfriend. As they grow up and their bodies change, they become increasingly sad when they realize that they will never measure up to the standard that the Barbie doll sets and in fact - no one will. Barbie manufacturers have recognized this and just recently started making more realistic Barbies so as to not damage any more women in the future. Women are going to all sorts of lengths including injecting poison into their bodies, augmenting their bodies, and having foreign bodies into themselves in vain attempts to reach an impossible standard set at a very young age in the minds of little girls. This is only one example of how images and impressions have had a detrimental effect on people. But there is another. 
       Facebook and instagram have made many positive contributions to society and bringing people together. People from around the world post photos of anything from pictures from Mt Everest to what they ate for lunch yesterday. One detrimental effect that has recently been noticed is the fact that people only put up the pictures that they want people to see and leave out the gritty realities of real life. This makes others see these and wonder why their lives aren't perfect and wonderful. They see Instagram photos of influencers and see their perfect lives and perfect clothes and perfect cups of coffee and begin to have anxiety and depression because they are not perfect. They have no clue that millions are paid every year by influencers to have their images and impression crafted by photoshop artists in order to cultivate the impression of reality. This is a bad effect on society and leads to mental health issues including suicide. 
       In conclusion, the advent of all sorts of media has definitely had positive contributions to society, but also has made people feel inferior and worthless. Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people and cause them to do things that they would not normally do. Someone might buy a 300 dollar balloon arrangement for a child's birthday party and post more photos of the decorations on social media than of the child for whom the party was intended. Covetousness is definitely a deadly sin. 
