Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. There are a number of reasons why materialism is bad for society. It's bad for the Earth. It's bad for our cities and towns. At the end of the day, materialism creates significant problems for the environment as well as our communities.

First, we are in a global crisis. Climate Change is very real. By producing and consuming more and more items, we are abusing the Earth. Pollution from manufacturing is perilous to our planet. Greenhous gasses for factories is destroying the ozone layer. As well, many items end up in landfills where they sit for hundreds of years, further polluting the Earth. Next, accumulating so many things is simply unnecessary. People frequently replace or "upgrade" perfectly functional items. This is a waste of materials as well as money. Thirdly, one could argue that the compulsion to accumulate material items leads to housing problems. So many small families live in very large houses simply because they have to many things to store. Garages overflow with things. Basements are packed to the rafters with totes full of items that are rarely, if ever, used. These large houses take up space that could be used to build a greater number of smaller more practical homes that would be more affordable to many people. As well, the utilities required to run a larger home cost the homeowner and society more. It requires more natural gas to heat the home in the winter. More rooms mean more lights left on and greater consumption of electicity.

Certainly, others might argue that materialism is just fine. Many people have the mindset that "you can't take it with you when you go" so, they have no issue spending a lot of money on the latest gadgets, the biggest television, or whatever other shiny thing has caught their eye.  In other cases, a person might argue that it is their personal business and others shouldn't have a say in how many things they accumulate. Further, some folks simply don't care about the environment and don't feel any personal responsibility to live sustainably. I disagree with all of these rebuttals! While you can't take your money with you when you pass, you also don't need to leave behind heaps of stuff for your loved ones to deal with. Addtionally, the environment should be everyone's concern. We have a responsibility --- to future generations and to the Earth itself --- to not do harm to the planet. Living materialistically does exactly that. It harms the planet and that destruction will continue for generations.  It is not reversible.

To conclude, society should be criticized for being materialistic.  There is really no good reason to over consume and to accumulate things. I'd challenge anyone who disagrees to put down their gadget, turn off the screen, go outside. Take a walk. Breath deeply. Look up at the sky. Turn your mind to the say the sun and the wind feel on your face. Better yet, spend some time volunteering to clean up your community. Notice the amount of trash that accumulates everywhere. Take a walk around your neighborhood on garbage night. Look at the piles of things that people throw away. Reflect on the fact that those things may be out of sight...but, they're not gone! Rather, they will sit in a dump somewhere. They will leach chemicals into the soil. They will not decompose. They will just sit and take up space. And, that means that we'll need to find more space to dump more of the "things" that you just had to add. It's a never-ending cycle and it is killing out planet.
