We've all heard the saying before: don't judge a book by its cover. Yet on a daily basis, that's exactly what humans do. We see and we judge, often unfairly, before looking at what is actually in front of us. These ideas can alter what we think and can result in poor choices. Images and impressions have far too much of an effect on people for multiple reasons.

First, images and impressions can cause unrealistic expectations. For example, depictions of young ladies on TV, in magazines, on social media, and in movies can make girls feel as if they don't measure up. However, those scenes are heavily edited. Photos are taken using specific angles that minimize flaws, and people only post the best photos of themselves (usually with filters) on social media. These misconstrued images hurt society by forcing them to try to live up to unrealistic expectations.

Second, commercials often sell products based on the "best case scenario" results. For example, a burger company might make their burgers look delicious in a commercial, but in reality, it's nothing more than a patty, a bun, and some condiments. Yet still, people will be drawn to the burgers just because the commercial entertained them. Another example might be choosing an insurance company. Sure, the little talking gecko is funny, but what does a person really know about Geico insurance? We know it can save us 15% or more. But what does that even mean? Most people don't take the time to think about that. I got a quote from Geico once, and it was actually going to cost more than my current insurance for the same coverage. Had I not looked into it, and just trusted the little talking gecko, I would have ended up spending more than I needed to. Blindly trusting advertisements allows people to fall into traps where they support something that isn't as great as it's portrayed to be.

Third, politicians often receive votes based on political affiliations. So many voters in the United States are loyal to their parties and don't even consider reality. In fact, many aren't even aware of what their party, let alone the candidates, stand for. A large number of American voters are uninformed about specific issues and follow the crowd, which makes positive change nearly impossible. For those voters, it's important to appear a certain way, rather than vote for a candidate who can make real change. Politicians know this, too, and they often use it to their advantage. It's like the old running joke where politicians go out to kiss babies on camera. That specific example is overused, but it has its basis in reality. Politicians often do things they know looks good in order to gain people's trust. Then, once elected, their true intentions come out, whether good or bad. 

Some people might suggest that this isn't a huge issue because it really only affects teenagers, who eventually grow out of it. However, this argument covers a very narrow subset of values. Adults are just as susceptible as teenagers, just in different ways. Adults may not be as concerned about wearing the most expensive shoes or perfect make-up, but they are susceptible to things like voting and making purchases based off of an image or impression rather than thorough research. The results of an adult being too impressionable are far worse than the results of a teenager being too impressionable, as the stakes are higher. 

In the end, images and impressions have a largely negative effect on people. When one considers the harm that relying on these images can cause, it's easy to see that it leads people to a life of stress and creates more problems. The best thing to do when considering something, especially something new, is to do the research and find what really works. If people did that, they would probably find that the best solution isn't always the most attractive.
