Images and impressions, the veil we see is often not the truth that lies behind the curtain. It is a dismal effect we can be subdued by a pretty smile and a twinkling eye, while the knife behind the back goes unseen. Wether it be from a cleverly written speech for a president, a tasty beverage in a sleek package, or a hygenic product that smells amazing; we, as a society, are effected too much by these perceptions we have of the people and things around us.

Politicians are a stereotype for a reason. Smile for the cameras, say the dutifully crafted words, and your demographic will vote you as far as you could want. In America, we allow our lives to be determined in a factioned pride for "our side." "Our side" stands for what is right. "Their side" is what's wrong with this country. The perception the American people, and the media's portrayal of the politicans as individuals is vastly more weighted than their business and work histories. All too often a cadnidate is elected, only to fall vastly short on the promises made during the election. It is such a commonplace occourance that it has become a very tired stereotype. This is solely due to how much weight our perception of these people has against our better judgement.

When we see headlines about obiesity in America, it is no surprise. The food available is decadent, extravagant, and sometimes eggregious. We can walk into almost any place of business and leave with a tasty soda in our hand. These drinks are terrible habits, which do nothing but harm for our health, as individuals and as a species on this planet. Yet, they are so pervasive, their ads are so enticing that we do not care. The image of drinking a nice soda to qwuench your thirst has more impact than the knowledge of detriment. The impression is yet again more powerful, too much so.

A hot bath is a luxury unbeholden to words. The amount of privelege we experience compared to our forefathers a century ago is immense, and palpable. What better way to add to the experience than soaps and cleansers that smell and feel devine on our skin. We put microplastics in our body wash to get a serene exfoliation. We support mass production of soaps in single use plastic containers, that will get thrown away. We are once again our own detriment with these chemicals we are leeching into our bodies and ecosystems. The impression of a shower is too amazing to give up, we can't go back.

One may think: "If it makes you happy, why stop?" It is true, we all have comforts and vices that we rely on. Such things ground us in our surroundings and make the less bearable aspects of life, more bearable. Pleasurable experiences help our mental health. However, the drug addict does not sell their belongings in exchange for the next high, as true means to mental health. Nor does one indulge in impressional excess and sought after imagery. It is easy, and seems nice. Our inability to see past the impressions and images we are constantly bombarded with will be our undoing in time.

The human abilities are vast, and impressive. However, we are always going to be impressionable people, for worse. We will have to see past the smile of a politician who is telling you everything you want to hear, just for your vote. We will have to look to the future to know that we don't need the soda that is calling our names from the convenience store's refrigerators. We will need to look for more sustainable options to cleanse ouerselves if we want to provide a planet with sustainable habits for future generations. As it stands now, images and impressions undoubtably have far too much and effect on you, I, and everyone we know.
