Materialism in modern society isn't simply a question of happiness and meaning for the individual. Whole societies are based upon materialism. In fact, modern life is founded upon the basis of striving for material goods. Without materialism in modern society, the world would collapse into a state of lethargy, not innovating or improving upon quality of life much at all.

If one were to look at non-materialistic societies that exist in the modern world, one would also find them to be considered primitive by today's standards. Looking at the untouched tribes of South America or the nomadic African groups, one can see that the desire for material goods and spending money does not exist. They also often live in somewhat primitive conditions, without the benefit of modern medicine or even the sanitation improvements that have been made in the modern world.

Without materialism, modern society misses the improvement of innovative products. To take an example from the previous paragraph, consider modern medicine. Certainly, if one were to give up the innovations of the last 200 years, one might consider our own society primitive. Yes, there were altruistic researchers, but without the materialistically-minded companies providing money for innovation, we might not have the advanced scanning techniques that allow for early diagnosis of cancer, or even dialysis machines that keep kidney patients alive.

Of course, there are key points of non-materialistic societites that proponents consider: that people leave simpler, more straightforward lives. People tend to be more community minded and there are fewer people 'falling through the cracks' of society. However, these key qualities can be encouraged in a society without removing materialism. Consider countries in Europe with "socialized" healthcare, for example. Specifically, consider countries in Scandanavia that have both socialized healthcare, a free education system, reasonable work hours, vacation time, and maternal and paternal leave. One could not consider those countries to be anti-materialistic and yet they manage to care for their citizens in ways considered anti-American in the US.

In summation, materialism is an easy scapegoat for people who desire a return to values that have fallen by the wayside in their local society. It is, however, a simplistic explanation at best. It's one that does not account for the deeper issues that drive the expiration of these values. Materialism is an important driver for improvement and innovation and should not be criticized.


