Our attention is drawn to objects and events that have features that are vivid and make a bigger impact on our senses. Our eyes are drawn to bright colors, and our ears can't help but register loud sounds. These reactions are adaptive, and they help us survive and thrive within different environments. Each reaction demands an evaluation. What was that? What does it mean? What should I do in response to it? We must make assessments constantly. One judgment that we must make is about whether what we perceive is real. This has always been an important challenges for the human mind. I believe that images and appearances do not have too much of an effect on people. The main focus should be on careful evaluation of these effects in order to not be misled by them. 

As we experience compelling images and appearances, we need to be open-minded in order to receive important information and signals. However, we must always be on guard and have an edge of skepticism. This will allow us to detect displays that are intentionally deceptive and manipulative. When we see the latest posts from influencers or hear new ads from companies, we need to take in the sights and sounds first. Then we should try to break down the layers within it to get beyond the appearance to comprehend the motives behind it. Ask: What do these people and companies want from me? They want you to think, feel and behave a certain way. It is important to recognize that in order to see influencers and companies for who they are. Then you can have more control over the situation.

Some people might say that what influencers, companies, and politicians do is harmless. They say we enjoy what they do, the shows they put on for us, and that we can just appreciate the spectacle as a form of entertainment. This is a dangerous position because it leaves us open to manipulation and we stand to lose a great deal. Companies want to take as much money from us as they can. We'll lose more money if we let their advertising get the best of us. Influencers want us to see them as better than us, and this means they want to take our self-esteem. Politicians want our money too as well as our souls and freedom. Their appearances are engineered to hide their true intentions. Suspending judgment of attention-grabbing images and appearances means that we are vulnerable to being scammed by all kinds of bad actors.

Poignant images and striking appearances should have an effect on us. They should activate our senses and our minds because that is how human information processing should work. However, that is not the end of the story. We should be as conscious as possible of the images and appearances that are stimulating reactions within us in order to prevent those things from having negative effects on us. Thoughtful awareness and active evaluation will allow us to distinguish the scams from the legitimate sales pitches. Instead of fighting against images, we should focus on our own minds to control our reactions and steer them toward positive and healthy outcomes.
