There's probably no correct answer to this question, but I personally feel that cooperation leads to more success then competition. As is often the case in life, it's not a matter of black or white, but shades of gray, nevertheless I'll try to lay out the case for cooperation here.
When I first read this prompt,  my mind immediately shifted to Microsoft. In the corporate world, and especially tech, Microsoft is famous for promoting competition and infighting against their employees. Clearly they are a successful company, so obviously competition and is not all bad.
However, I believe it's natural for humans to cooperate with one another. It's part of who we are. There's a time and a place for competition - sporting events for example - but cooperation helps us get things done. It's part of what makes us human. While we an accomplish thigns by ourselves, everything is easier with help. From making dinner with a friend or a partner, to building the pyramids, working together has always been more effective for humans. When I think on my daily life, there are areas where both enviroments are better, but overlall I'd rather be collaborative. Take work for example. Responding to emails and filling out status reports? Well obviously that is better done alone. But conducting analyses or working on large deliverables? That's clearly better via cooperation. It brings different viewpoints to the table, different hypotheses, different ways of thinking. Without leaning to heavily into a cliche, it creates a melting pot. We all have different strengths and weaknesses, and cooperation allows our greatest strengths to shine while masking our worst weaknesses.
I think it's natural for humans to want to cooperate. At the end of the day, we are animals, and social ones at that. We cannot survive on our own, nor have we ever  been able to. Even with the greatest advancements in technology, we rely on one another. I need my coworkers to help at work, especially for the hardest projects. I need my family and friends to help me through life. This is the same for everyone. Competition pushes us to succeed - this is true. It holds us accountable and gives us a bar to set ourselves against. But cooperation allows us to achieve our greatest successes.
I think that clearly, there is a time for both cooperation and competition in our society. Competition pushes us to succeed. But coordination and cooperation ALLOWS us or HELPS us to succeed. They are both useful tools, but I think that the latter leads to results.
Honestly, there's really not much else more that I can say about this topic. I understand that I'm supposed to write for thirty minutes and I'm only a little halfway there, but I'm not sure how much there is for me to say.
I just tried to go away from this webpage and got the nasty gram so I'll try to write a little bit more. I'll be honest, I'm biased. I am a conflict avoident person. So, naturally, I am going to be against competition. It's ironic because I love sports and all that but in reality when it comes down to my personal life I am a people pleaser. So I'm not denying that there are some people and some situations where competition is better, but for me I think cooperation leads to better results. It provides better resutls for me, and I genuinely believe that is the same for the majority of people in this world. But I recognize others could feel differently. Sales people? Sure that's competition all day. But I'll fight and argue with everything that I have that cooperation is better.
When I try to think back to the most signifcant accomplishments that humankind has had - sending people into Space, technological advancments such as flight, the internet, telephone, sailing the Atlantic, building the Roman Empire, assembling the pyramids - none of these things were done alone. They required massive coordination across each of them. None of them were done in a vacuum or alone. Was their competition? Of course. But these could have been done without competition. They could not have been done without cooperation. I think that's what this all ultimately comes down to in my mind.
