The term, "materialism," usually elicits negative reactions in those who hear it. At the same time, despite its overwhelmingly negative connotation, it clearly describes the prevailing attitudes of most people. Most people center their lives around money and the things one can obtain with money. But is this a bad thing? In order to answer this question, we first must decide how it is we can determine what is "good" and what is "bad." These are value judgments.  The truth is, morality can only be objective if it is grounded in the mind of a creator of the universe. From a metaphysics standpoint, in order to justify morality, it must be objective, and it must be binding. So to an atheist, there is no justification for why people should or should not be "materialistic." On the other hand, according to various religions, materialism is clearly shown to be wrong. Since the Transcendental Argument for God clearly demonstrates there must be a creator, our society should be condemned for its materialism, as it goes against what the creator tells us is good.

Most religions clearly demonstrate that materialism is to be avoided. No major religion preaches the virtues of money and material goods. Instead, they mandate the opposite: That people help the poor and focus on helping humanity as a whole, rather than being greedy. In fact, greed is considered a sin in most religions. Materialism as a practice will generally lead to sin besides greed, as the desire for money and material goods can lead people to behave in other immoral ways in order to obtain those things. Theft and gang violence are examples of this. 

The moral implications of materialism in modern society can be determined simply by recognizing that morality as a whole is contingent upon a creator of the universe weaving the morals into the fabric of the universe. This is the only way morality can be objective, rather than relative. There is no way for a person to justify mere opinion or intuition, because any person who disagrees can say their intuition tells them the opposite. It makes debates about morality a complete waste of time, because there is no objectivity involved. Ironically, I am writing this very essay in hopes of earning $11.75 in bonus, which is, in itself, a materialistic endeavor. However, despite grasping that I am behaving in somewhat of a materialistic fashion in writing this essay, I would not complain if the authors of this study awarded me even more money as a bonus, just because my essay is so cool and interesting to read. In summary, my essay represents, in many different ways, how ingrained materialism is in modern society, and why we should strive to change it.


