I propose that society should be critisized and yet priased for being materialistic.  My over all reasoning is that the term means different things to different people. I will be giving a few examples.

For my first example I will be discussing the negatives of materialism.  Some folks will take image and matericalism that is not only detrimental to thier own self interest, but also those in thier family, and at times the wider community.

This happens when folks consider consumer goods to be a status symbol before status is achieved.  The "look" of status outweights the virtue.  A prime example is automobiles.  Folks will spend over 50 percent of their yearly income to have a vehicle that looks like they have "arived" (PUN INTENDED!).  This is sometimes known as being "car poor".  If folks bought a slightly used, yet reliable late model car, the money they could save, invest etc could be life changing.  Invelst me can me different things.  It can be directed into the market, stocks, bonds, realestate etc, but it can also be investing in quality of life, for example healthier food for your family, or experiences.

That car will certainly not be as important to a person in a year or so, but the payments are still due.  This type of short sighted materialism is a big problem in todays society.

I will now discuss a positive of materialism.  We live in a sociecty where things are attainable.  Sometimes items can be seen as goals, and working on and reaching goals can be valuable to the human experience if achieved in the right order.  Lets go back to that car we talked about above.  Lets say the pay ment was 500 a month.  If that same person chose a car that was 25o dollars a month, kept 150 to spend on things like healthier food, or experiences with thier family, they could then invest that other 100 dollars.  Over time that would really add up.  I won't get into exact numbers here, you can research that yourself, but it can be life chaning.  This could allow you to later in life be able to afford that vehicle without it being such a high percentage of your income.

You may be thinking well is bulding wealth not also a form of materialism?  Well it certainly can be, but can also be quite virtuous.  You can be more charitable, be a rock to lean on for other family members etc.  It is also my personal experience than when you actually start to gain wealth, you crave the type of goods that are designed to show off.  You actually become more comfortale with other folks vies of you.

I want to say that some folks wealth can have a negative impact on matericalism as well.  We have seen countless stories of the uber rich celebrity types that can have anything they want, so they chase a rush in gambling, or persue other vices.  In extreme cases you see them behaving inappropriately in the treatment of others, be it verbal, physically, or in countless other ways.

I do not think everyone falls into that trap, but sometimes people who "have it all" get off on feeling entitled and taking things from others.  So in this regaurd it can be very negative.

In the same way we see the uber rich and celebrities being highly charitable, spending countless fortunes on making the world better.  Most of these folks also have very nice cars, homes, and other items that many would consider materialistic, but in the grand scheme we shouldn't judge them.  The things they buy lead to income for others, sales people, factory workers, truck drivers etc.  They also help countless folks in other ways.

In the grand scheme of things some folks are materialistic to a fault, and others are materialistic in a good way.  It is impossible to judge society as a whole.  As we have discussed today there is an individual human touch too it. Some folks will struggle their whole lives to have something nice right away, and keep up that image, others will use the wealth they have to turn the well being of others in to a form of materialism they can consume for their own selfish wants.  Yet others will reep the benifit of "things" well also being congnisent  of others needs and such,

So how do we determine if materialism should be critisized?  I would suggest we cannot determine that as a whole.  To determine it in general we would have to determine if someone can be too rich.  If someone earns money honestly, is there a such thing as "too much for one person"?  I argue no.  Think of a billionare philatropist.  If they give millions and millions to charity, are they materialistic for having  several house, a jet, and some cars?  What about the jobs they create?  Clearly we cannot judge this completely on how much someone owns or desires.  It isnt that simple.

Materialism can only be criticized if it is of detriment to the person individually, thier family, or in the worst of cases uses wealth and power to abuse, traffic, or other wise take advantage of other people.

If someones additiction to "things" hurts their health, their ability to take time off or retire, then yes they shoudl be critisized.  Someone who sets goals, works for it, and can own those things without doing any of the negative stuff is virtuous.  Even if they do not donate a dollar to charity (I don't recoment this) the money put back into the economy will help countless workers on a global scale.  

I always laught when i hear folks scoff at folks driving corvettes, "they wasted so much money, they could have feed a family for years etc" but i would argue that folks buying corvettes DO feed folks for years.  Materical suppliers, those who ship those supplies, those who drive those shipments, factory workers, union bosses, more truck drivers to get those finished corvettes to the dealership, the sales people and mechanics at those dealerships, the folks working at the gas station, the folks delivering the gas, the folks working at the refinery, the folks working the oil rigs, the folks transporting the crude, the folks at the DMV who do registration, the Tire manufacturers, the car washes....
You get my point, l
