The premise of the "assignment" is flawed because it presents cooperation and competition as some type of binary choice. Like everything else in life, it depends on the specific situation. Sometimes competition is more useful and productive. Sometimes cooperation is.

For example, to use it in a political sense, there is a segment of the population (generally those who live on twitter and/or in the increasingly bizarre bubble of a collection campus), who seem to genuienly believe that communism and other collectivists worldviews, could lead to some type of utopia. A world where everyone lives in harmony, holding hands, sharing with their neighbor. 

The reality of course, is that no such utopia can ever exist. The idea that billions of people could all agree on anything, let alone the minutia of everyday life, is absurdly naive (and literally impossible to accomplish). Instead, this utopian vision is used by the corrupt to convince the easily manipulated, if you just give them more power and more money, all your problems will be solved.

This was most obvious over the past few years. Where we've seen the biggest transfer of wealth in human history from the working class to the wealthy, all to "protect" us from an endemic flu and stop the weather from changing. "We're all in this together," was the endless mantra, as ~$3.7 trillion was transferred from the poor to the rich. And of course they pander about ridiculous, irrelevant, superficial nonsense like the color of everyone's skin, to distract people from the real issues. 

Thats what mass collectivism accomplishes. Mass destruction.

Now where cooperation can provide beneficial results, is on a smaller, decentralized scale. A group of a dozen people living on a farm and sharing resources. Local charities and food banks that provide direct resources to those in need (rather than massive, corporate "non-profits," that provide nothing of value to anyone but themselves).

Homeschooling communities where parents share responsibilities and hire quality teachers. Volunteers that help rebuild after natural disasters. Community homes that provide temporary shelter to the homeless. Local rehab groups that work with addicts to improve their lives, rather than provide them with needles and "safe spaces," to destroy themselves and everyone around them. Things like that. Taking real world action without the strangulation of mindless bureaucracy, corrupt government, corporations, so called "experts," the propaganda machine of corporate media, hollywood, wall street, blackrock, vanguard, state street, etc.

So in that way (localized and decentralized), cooperation can achieve more success. In a greater context, once you start involving corporations, government and general bureaucracy, competition is a necessity and leads to more success. 

When you have "cooperation," on a larger scale, in a system where massive corruption infects every level of government and every major institution, thats how you end up with invading Iraq because of fake stories over WMDs. Its how you get toppling Libya and turning it into a slave state. Its how you get "Russians taking over the White House," for years. Its how you get months of riots resulting in billions in damage and dozens of deaths, while the ivory tower/"trusted sources," call it "peaceful." 

Its how you get years of completely deranged mass hysteria over an endemic flu with an average mortality age around 80, survival rate of 99+% for the vast majority and less dangerous than the seasonal flu to younger people. Its how you get pointless mask mandates despite all the available science and data showing that mass mask wearing has no effect beyond psychological, and that cloth masks specifically actually increase the spread of respiratory infection. Its how you get half a dozen governors who responded to a virus that primarily affects the elderly and is no risk to children, to put covid positive patients INTO nursing homes and shut down schools.

Its how you get every "expert," "academic," politician, media, celebrity, screeching in unison that everyone needs to get injected with something they don't want or need, or be purged from "polite society," and lose their job. Its how you get all those same people completely ignoring all the very serious side effects, including death, and continuing to push that trash on people...including children. Its how you get corporate monstrosities like blackrock, vanguard and state street, dictating economic and governmental policy.

The list goes on and on, but the point is, again, that its not a binary choice. Whether cooperation or competition are more beneficial and/or effective, depends on the situation. It depends on whether you're talking about a small scale or a large scale. It depends if you're referring to actual normal people, or corrupt lunatics who don't care how much destruction they cause, provided it expands their power and lines their pockets. 

The premise that "cooperation is much more likely to produce significant, lasting accomplishments," is an opinion. Not a factual statement.
