When you look around, you see enticing products everywhere. I'm sure you yourself have fallen victim to buying something solely based on the packaging rather than the product itself; don't worry, I have too. Many times once you get around the alluring presence of the product, you open it to find it underwhelming. Or just maybe, you decide you like it more when mentally you are associating it with the advertisement or the packaging that stands it apart from products that do the same. Images have a great effect on people to the point it can become harmful.

Although from the get go I mentioned products in the store, this effect also applies with people. Take tiktok for example, we idolize people such as Charli D'melio for nothing more than just being pretty. Some claim she can dance but we all know if she was not conventiatlly pretty, she wouldn't have this effect. The same goes for musicians, due to their look and they're personality, we idolize them when in reality some of them just aren't that talented music wise. Impressions have too much of an effect on people because we are tricked into thinking something is good when in reality it is just manipulating our brain into liking it because it is pretty or colorful. 

Some may argue that no one would buy a product if it didn't stand out and grab our attention, this may be true but in todays society, we take this too far. We cause people to spend outrageous amounts of money on things that cost minimal money to make due to unethical labor or even just cheap materials. We trick the consumers into thinking they are great high quality products when in reality it is just misleading. The consumer will get home and use the product just to realize they could've bought the same thing at walmart for $30 cheaper. There are many examples of this all around us, one including luxury makeup. Although there is makeup out there that makes sense to be at the price point that it is, a lot of makeup brands will promote their products as being high end and use gorgeous well known people to show it off. This makes us think it is worth spending hundreds of dollars on when in reality almost every high end product, you can find a drugstore brand duplicate that matches quality and results.

When it comes to consumerism in 2022, we are constantly manipulated by brands to choose the more enticing one based on the ad or packaging it presents in. In people, we idolize people due to how they present themselves rather than on talent or actual things they have done. So many celebrities have been idolized only to find out behind closed doors, they have done horrible things. Such as Chris Brown, many love him but he was found out to beat Rihanna. Although this news came out, many fans still idolize him for his voice. Images have too much of an effect on people because it completely changes the way we view everything. This will not stop anytime soon but it remains a big issue commonly overlooked.                    
