It is said that first impressions are key, however in today's modern world we are faced with "first impressions" all around us in the products we buy and the advertisements we see. These appearances are not by chance, but rather they are carefully chosen by teams to attract. In this modern marketing society, images and impressions have become the forefront of capitalism due to the effectiveness on these strategies on content consumption.
With the rise of social media influencers via ease-of-access technologies, the focus on imagery has never been so important. One of the major issues coming to light today as a result of the spread of influencers is body dysmorphia. As a means of becoming more popular the competitive environment of social media, influencers look to mirror societal beauty standards regardless of how unrealistic they may be, such as extreme dieting to maintain a slim figure and wearing provacative apparel. Digitally enhancing portraits in both social media and celebrity magazines has become a common means of grasps "perfection." However. this is not only an unhealthy mindset for social figures, because their actions influence global followers. Fans, in an effort to be more like their role models, anchor self-expectations of their image to the unrealistic goal set by the content they see. Social influencers and fans alike are willing to sacrifice health, both mental and physical, to relay an image of success and beauty to conform to the importance of impressions, leading to a vicious downwards spiral.
On the other hand, rapid technological advances have lead to a change in how we interpret content. With global connectivity, anyone can express individual opinions and reviews of media content and products, regardless of clever marketing. While we can fall prey to the data-driven accuracy of marketing strategies, we are also able to better communicate across a great distance whether experience proves that favorable impressions align with reality. Common functionalities such as product reviews a for online products and online forums allow for consumers to ask as a larger hive mind, working to interpret and analyze discrepancies between outer images and truth. However, even such an effort requires the sacrifice of the few consumers who fall prey to the colorful packaging of products and near-perfect self-image of social figures.
As technologies allow for more global contectivity, capitalistic pressures will push stakeholders to use consumer data to make profict on consumer reliance on image and first impressions. This pressure is driven by the data that shows success in these marketing strategies, however far they may be from the truth with the content.
