Materialism is a big aspect in our lives, more than we take time to consider. Everything we have ever owned outside of neccessities fits in this category. The constant drive to continue to get more things fuels our drive to work to be able to afford more things. These things we acquire are directly tied to our happiness, so the process of working hard and spending our earnings on things we enjoy continues throughout our life. A responsible approach to materialism can actually be a very good thing, and add a sense of meaning to our lives.

Modern society may be becoming too materialistic, but this doesn't come without positives. When people decide to spend, this creates jobs. Someone has to be there to pick, pack, and ship an order out to someone buying something new for themselves. As for the person doing the purchasing, they are doing something that is contributing to their happiness, which improves their quality of life. Is that something we would really want to take away? 

Allowing people to purchase the things that make them happy keeps people as productive members of society, and leads to a better economy. Depression rates could fall as a result of the increased happiness related to materialism. However, having access to materialism and losing access to your buying power could lead to problems in itself. As long as responsibility plays a factor in how someone is acquiring their possessions, it should not be a cause for concern. No one should be going into debt to acquire material items, especially temporary items you won't have for an extended period of time.

In conclusion, I do not think we should criticize modern society for being too materialistic. I believe certain individuals are more materialistic than others, and if they are willing to carry the risks of potentially having to downgrade their quality of life down the road, that is their choice to make. The positive mood lift it can provide to people who are working hard and need a sense of reward is second to none. 
