What brings true joy and happiness?  That new TV, Ipad or car?  Or is it something deeper.  Happiness doesnt come with a wrapper.  Those things fade quickly.  True joy comes from doing for others.  Bringing happiness to those around us, in our communities, in our cities, our states and the world, is what will give you lasting satisfaction in life.  Not only will you be doing good but you will feel good.  It wont always be easy but it will always be worth it.

Think about the last time you bought yourself that special gift.  At first you used it constantly.  You thought about it day and night. But over time the excitement from the purchase wanes.  Now think about the last time you did something fun with someone.  You may remember the weather, the scents and even what you were wearing.  Special time bringing fun to others will stay with you (and them) forever.  

Our communties have homeless people.  Keep bags in your car to hand out with socks and toothpaste in them.  There are dogs and cats who need a home.  Foster them for a little while.  Provide them love and entertainment and so many cuddles.  The schools need volunteers.  Nursiing homes need people to paint nails, sing songs or read stories.  If you start looking for how to help, helping will be everywhere.

A lot of people seek out a goal and assume that once they achieve that goal they'll be the happiest they'll ever be.  It makes sense in theory.  You will feel great once you achieve it.  But then what?  Will you be forever satisfied with that?  Or does the next goal to achieve get set?  Already working towards the new goal leaves the happiness of your previous success far behind.  In fact, the new goal may make you feel infinitely worse than not doing anything.

When you serve others, it makes their lives better.  A smile when you're in a hurry.  A kind word to someone who looks down.  Stop in a restaurant and tell a family how great their kids are doing.  (Even better, pay for the meal of a young family.)  Whilst you will be doing good for others, or even changing their lives, you will also feel good.  You'll go to sleep at night satisfied.  You'll feel fulfilled.  

Start looking for the needs of others and they become easy to see.  Most times it will be easy to meet those needs. The joy of helping will be the impetus.  Then comes the times when it hurts to give, to care, to help, to share.  Maybe you had a car you were going to sell but give it to a single mom.  That satisfaction will last forever!  It may hurt your pocketbook for a while.  You may even feel sad that you parted with it.  But when you look at the bigger picture, of a life transformed, you will start to feel happiness.  Real, lasting happiness.   

Keep reaching for those goals.  Keep giving to others.  Keep helping.  Make a difference in the world so that other people feel love and happiness.  Giving is going to make you feel happy and joyful.  It might even relieve some stress.  While it can sometimes be hard to give, do it anyway.  It will get easier.  You'll live your life in peace, harmony and joy.  You'll find true happiness.  


