To begin, happiness is something everyone pursues ; from a little kid to a grown adult, we all strive to live life happily. Although, not everyone can agree on what they should do to become happy. Does happiness come from helping others? Or does it come as a byproduct of your own successes? The former is more likely to be true for most.

To begin with, happiness is a hard emotion to predict. It's shown that the littlest of things can make someone happy. Such as a morning cup of coffee or an evening stroll. These aren't exactly large term goals yet they bring such joy, simply because the person doing them is focusing on improving their own wellbeing. It's shown in the practice of meditating and selfcare, which both lead to the happiness of the person doing them. To continue, it's not limited to ones own happiness, people get immense joy out of helping others. If not, we wouldn't have so many people helping others in day to day jobs. Doctors, firefighters, teachers and so forth. All of them dedicate their lives to helping others and many feel fufilled as a result. 

Although, there is some credence to fulfilling ones goals to be happy, it pales in comparison to focusing on helping others. Life is all about goals, of course, we all set daily goals even subconsciously. Yet, the drive for these goals doesn't always come from happiness. It comes from fear, anxiety and other negative emotion that are based on ones fear of failure. Even succeeding in one's goal can lead to these emotions still. Proving that having goals isn't a completely way to become happy. On another note, people find immense happiness from pursuing a career goal like becoming a doctor. It's widely known that those who don't find happiness from helping others become unhappy with their work when compared to those who do.

In conclusion, happiness is more often easier to achieve when focused on being happy and helping others. Focusing on your goals can leave you bitter or depressed when the simpler things are more likely to bring even small bits of joy. Showing that it indeed the better option to pursue if you want to be happy. 
