     The concept of happiness and how one obtains it often is separated into two separate and distinct categories.  One argument posits that happiness can be found through the pursuit of individual goals and self improvement.  Conversely, a second argument is that happiness can only be truly be obtained by helping others achieve happiness or providing some other overall benefit to humanity.  In viewing these two arguments, history and personal experience indicate that a person is more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others rather than their own happiness.
     One of the the truisms that have been passed down over time is that, "It is better to give than to receive."  Fictional people such as Ebenzeer Scrooge as well as real life people such as St. Nicholas, the Bishop of Smyrna, and Andrew Carnegie have shown that a person's happiness can be obtained by helping and providing happiness to others.  Providing gifts or other assistance either to the poor or young children often elicit a smile or some other sign of gratitude which causes the giver to spontaneously smile or feel a sense of happiness in response.  As we age in life, there is a tendency to view how our life fit within the tapestry of humanity and whether the world is a better place because of the actions taking in our life.  People who have dedicated their lives to service often feel a sense of happiness and accomplishment as they approach the end of their life and feel a sense of inner peace for having brought happiness to others.
     However, other people make the argument that "you can not love others if you don't love yourself".  Therefore, an argument can be made that happiness can only be found in the pursuit of personal goals and self-improvement.  Athlethes who persevere through years of difficult training and several injuries often appear to be very happy once they win a championship, win a medal or obtain some other acknowledgement of their success.  A scientist who labors hard to find a new discovery will often feel a sense of achievement and receive the respect and admiration of his peers resulting in a feeling of happiness.
     Yet, history, literature and our current age show that achieving one's personal goals do not often lead to long-term happiness.  Famous athletes, including ones who win championships, often can not bear to leave their sport and suffer embarrassment and frustration due to deterioration of skills and the inevitable descent into relative obscurity.  Actors and actresses as well as rock stars, who achieve fame and fortune, often will become arrogant and self-destructive after achieving their personal goals resulting in failed marriages, drug abuse, bankruptcy and even death whether by their own hand or another's.   In the end, the people who have devoted their lives to personal success and the pursuit of their own goals often are lonely, bitter and suffer regrets due to the loss of personal relationships as a result of the singular pursuit of their own happiness.
