It's hard to argue that America isn't the most divided it's ever been. What we see all around us are choices and you're either on one side or the other. This is led, in part, by personalites and corporations who make money off these divides. When you control words and the narrative you effectively control reality itself. It's gotten so sophisticated that there truly should be education on how to filter out what is real and factual from what is opinion and "grift". In this essay, I will explain why images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.

If you ask for facts and figures some would argue that you're playing identity politics. This seems to come more from conservative sources who say fact checkers are a problem in society and we should just trust those who want to tell us what's real. Don't be a "sheeple"! Just do what I say! etc. My main example is Donald Trump. From all appearances he seems to be a successful businessman who knows what he's talking about and is an expert on a variety of topics. If you dig just a little deeper you'll see it's all image. He's had many businesses go under, he rambles on nonsensically, and he dodges a lot of questions on basic pieces of information. And now, based on his image, a too large portion of the American people believe the 2020 election was outright stolen. January 6th rioters are goint to prison, their lives changed probably for the worse, based solely on the lie that was sold to them by a man doing an impression of someone who knows what they are talking about and telling the truth. Had they been more discerning they would've seen through the the fakeness and not descended on the nation's capital.

A counter argument could be that in order to live a happy life you absolutely must create your own reality and lean into it. The world will hit you hard, so why not pretend as if you're the master of it and really everything is under your control and you wanted all that to happen? Why ever admit you're wrong when being wrong feels bad? How dare someone else make you feel bad after all. It's hard to argue against someone living a happy life but truly a rising tide raises all ships and if we make objective reality better then it will make life better for most people.

We are where we are in this society, and technology will not let us go backwards. But we can move forward in a positive fashion as long as we can all, or at least most of us, agree on basic facts and not just let a bunch of flashy noise distract us from real issues. I believe we can do this and it may be painful at first but we can all be better in the long run and so will the next generation.
