Modern society tends to reward materialism to a rather extreme extent. Most individuals are constantly chasing material items in order to improve their own circumstances. While chasing after these material goods is a necessary part of our modern world, it can also lead to unexpected consequences. Those who solely case after material goods deserve a level of criticism.

The world created by our recent ancestors requires some level of materialistic beliefs in order to survive. We need income to pay our bills, acquire food, and even gain some level of enjoyment. While this is a requirement for modern life, there are some who take this belief over the top. Some among us live their lives solely to acquire material goods. Some individuals go to great lengths, such as stealing, manipulating others, and hurting other individuals, to gain wealth and status symbols. 

Our modern society has done a better job of harming those who cause harm to others through their materialistic view. Examples of this can be found anywhere on social media, with the general public criticizing and policing materialistic individuals and causing harm to their reputation. Many of these actions cause those who are criticized to back off of their public display of materialistic tendencies. 

Some retort that materialism is a necessary part of our society. Others share that being able to purchase items that make them happy is something positive in a bleak world. Whiles these points are valid, moving ourselves further and futher in to materialistic tendencies is going to inevitable harm our connections with other, more important aspects of life. Being able to connect with others on a personal level, raising families, and enjoying moments in life. Purchasing items for our enjoyment helps us to improve our lives, but should not be considered the end all.

At the end of the day, the world that we have created requires some level of materialism. We need to sell our time in order to pay for life, and we need to purchase items in order to advance our economy and ensure that others are able to provide for their own. While the average person does not necessarily deserve criticism for participating in materialistic ventures, those who spend all of their time and energy focusing solely on these pursuits should reconsider these pursuits in order to focus on the important aspects of life.

In addition to criticizing individuals, as a society, we should be better about improving our circumstances through government intervention and assistance to those at "the bottom" or society. Pursuit of purely materialistic endeavors should not trump our compassion towards others.
