In the modern world, society finds itself immersed in the enticing effects of materialism and material consumption. It is common for people to create, curate, and propose ideas for new gadgets, appliances, decor, technological devices, etc. and the simple act of purchasing and consuming such media can leave an individual feeling happy and content, no matter if this feeling is temporary. It is important to note that people have the right to spend their money and consume whatever they'd like, but in today's society, we are seeing materialism and consumption becoming more and more prevalent. Are these material items worth the feeling of happiness, or should we scrutinize society's habits surrounding materialism?

I think modern society should be critized for being materialistic, to an extent. I do believe people should be able to do what makes them happy, whether that is obtained through materialistic things, experiences, memories, or any other form. However, it is apparent that society also perpetuates over-consumption of materials, which can be harmful to the environment and even our mental health. If you visit a store, there are numerous variations of similar appliances, clothing, and food. If you surf the internet or go on social media, you will see people purchasing items because they were incentivized or for content-making purposes. We should think about the lasting effects of purchasing new items constantly; is there room for us to recycle or reuse these items? Do items go out of style because people are always pursuing the newest trend? I think happiness and meaning can be found in simplicities as well, such as preserving a family member's appliance or piece of clothing, and not always rushing to replace or purchase new things because they give us a feeling of happiness. Additionally, when we purchase new items, we are contributing to the labor, materials, etc. it costs to make that item, which ultimately allows harmful items like plastic to fill up the landfill. This is harmful to the environment. 

Most people would probably say that being materialistic is harmless. Some would argue that having new and expensive items, or owning a lot of things, contributes to a person's reputation and how they are perceived. This is true to an extent; having a nice car or house gives individuals a sense of accomplishment and pride. However, over-consuming or being materialistic allows society to be more judgemental and maybe perceive someone incorrectly based on what they own, what they are wearing, or some other reason tied to materialism. Also, some people say that acquiring possessions and spending money gives a euphoric feeling, but I'd also like to argue that we should also find happiness in experiences, relationships, and memories with others.

All in all, I think the concept of being materialistic should be somewhat criticized, but not in a harsh or demeaning way. I think owning the items you want and spending your own money is a human right, but I think people should be more ethical and practical when purchasing items to prevent further harming the environment. 
