I believe people achieve more success by cooperation. Having someone who you can count on is a building block to success.

At an early age one learns usually through parents who teach and guide and show how things are done by example. If nobody was there to teach, there would be either no learning or learning wrong or it would take longer to figure out on ones own. You go to school and learn by teachers teaching you various subjects and skills. That is why a teacher is called a teacher. You cooperate with them by listening and doing assignments to grasp knowledge. A teacher is cooperating with you as they are showing and telling you how its done. This is all done so that one can achieve success and be able to function in this world.

Some would say that competition is a better way to achieve success. In a few instances this might be true as some are driven by competition to achieve more. However, the vast majority of success is achieved by cooperation. One has to have cooperation through a parent, teacher, mentor, coach, leader, fellow employee, etc. before one can ever get to the point of a competitive situation. In sports a game, match, meet, championship, etc. is done through competition but there must be cooperation first. Cooperation with teammates or say in tennis where one is competing individually, first there was cooperation with a coach, practice partner, trainer, dietician, etc. One could not get to the competing stage before first being on the cooperation stage. 

At work we recently received new software. In order to learn the software first a representative from the software company came and showed us the basics of how the software operates. For several days he was there to show us and answer any questions we had. Videos of how to use the software were also made available for after the representative left. The representatives phone number was provided in case we had further questions after the representative left. If one of us learned how to use a feature then we would show the others that feature. This is how the software was learned and how eventual success was achieved. The representative didn't come in and say that he was forming us into teams and the first team to learn the software without any help from him was the winner. Obviously that would have been a recipe for failure or at best it would have taken a whole lot longer to learn the software. Key features could have been missed or we could have learned a tougher way to do things, not taking advantage of a simpler method or by not utilizing all the functions the software had to offer. 

In summary, the way to success is by cooperation no matter what stage of life one is in.
