Materialiasm is a double edged sword. While on the surface if you asked the aveage person, they would likely say they are not materialistic. Some may be factual in that assessment, but far more are saying what they think they are expected to say. Being materialistic is frowned upon in our society. We are inundated with the harsh reality that many of our fellow human beings are going without the most basic necessities in life. Lack of access to clean drinking water, regular ability to eat healthy meals, and the inability for so many to access healthcare are obviously huge problems facing the world. Were we to admit that our material possessions are a priority for us, we are also making the statement, albeit passively, that those trikets and other things are more of a priority to us than using that money to donate to a charity that could help the less fortunate.

Society is structured that the more things you own, the better off you are considered to be. Owning a home and a car are often the lower end of this standard. If you can also get a boat, second home, and more expensive, luxury car, you are the envy of many. But at what cost do we acquire these things? How can we possibly enjoy a day out on our very expensive boat, when somewhere people are dying from not having a simple meal? 

There are some who say that those people need to pick themselves up, and we are not responsible for the other people in the world. Unfortunately, that is a very bad excuse, and only serves to make us try to rationalize our obsession with material things. Due to circumstances far beyond their control, these people are unable many times to help themselves. From illness that prevents someone from working, to having a job that doesn't pay enough to make ends meet, to the ever increasing cost of simple things like a roof over one's head and food consistently available, there are endless reasons why someone may not be able to provide all they need.

People seem to feel safer and have less anxiety, at least on the surface, by their ability to own a lot of things. It says to the world that you are doing well. It tells you yourself that not only can you meet the basic needs in life, but you can have nice extras to enjoy. However, those possessions can also cause the very stress that they initially help us ovecome. Upkeep on things like a boat, house, and car gets expensive. They need to be replaced at times. Having stress of your home being broken into and priceless art pieces, jewelry, and money stolen is a worry. 

Too often our materialistic tendencies are about money. One option to get away from that is to restructure our thinking of "value". Something that costs a lot of money is what society overall considers a valuable. In this way, society, rather than the person acquiring the item, is the one making the determination of what something's value is. Were we to think of things in terms of "sentimental" value, I think we would be much better off. The letters found in an attic, written between one's grandparents during a war. The homemade quilt a grandmother made. The photo from your first birthday that your aunt had framed for you. These also have value, and it is something far more important than the material things we all think we want/need in life.

I believe that to an extent, we do all deserve to be criticized for our materialistic tendencies. There are so many beneficial ways to help the world with the money we are spending on trivial things. Programs to ensure food for people. Groups that plant trees, save animals from extinction, and clean litter out of the ocean. A simple warm meal bought for a homeless person you encounter.

in the end, when our life is coming to an end, I doubt many of us will think back to the famous painting we bought, the gold statues in our entryways, or the number of cars and houses we own. What will hopefully bring us peace is knowing that we made the world better for others, and that our contribution can and will live on, making things hopefully just a little easier and happier for people who otherwise would have suffered. This, not our materialistic things so easily discarded upon our death, will be a lasting legacy that is priceless, and not only on a self-centered level. 
