As best summed up in the American Dream, the pursuit of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness", the United States has a focus that is best summed up by one word. Individuality. The idea of American life is that you can live your best life if, and only if, you focus on the needs of yourself first, and others second. However, is this the best option we have? I honestly believe this case, while seemingly benign, can lead to dangerous ideals of what happiness is, and can actually cause sadness and loss as a result of a lack of focus on the other. The general happiness and goals of a person are often as full of flaws as they are lacking in the needs of others, and result in people not seeing the whole picture. Thus, the needs and happiness of others in the short term lead to both short and long-term gains of happiness and pleasure within an entire community, family unit, or group of like-minded people. 

Generally, people are really bad at knowing what they want, and focusing on that need. A plan that might seem foolproof is often full of technical and logistical hurdles that are not seen at the onset of the goal. Additionally, there are a number of human factors that often go overlooked, resulting in possible suffering (or at least the least, inconvenience) of other people that someone with laser focus would overlook. This results in goals that are in a constant state of change, all the while others are interacting with the self in different, and sometimes counter ways. The ability to fulfill the other, however, is easy to grasp, an almost tangible thing that one can focus on to feel happiness and contentment with life.

It is more fulfilling to serve others than it is the self, in both the short term and the long term. In the short term, the need to fulfill a goal can be completed in a much shorter amount of time, as long as the self feels that the needs of the other are being fulfilled and that they are helping shape them as an individual as well as keeping their goals in focus. In the long term, the needs and goals of others are often intertwined with the self. For example, generally, people don't forget when they were helped, or by whom, and will reward that person back with their own help (monetary, political, work-related, etc). The sense of fulfillment in the self will ultimately lead to the goals of the self being achieved. 

Often times people will say the journey that leads them to the end of the goal will result in the greatest happiness for this exact reason, that the happiness achieved in the short term produces long term happiness. They only see the goal in front of them as the key to happiness, not the friendships and connections they made along the way. Once one reaches the top of that hill and fulfills their goal, there is another higher hill to climb. Ultimately, they will never be fulfilled this way. Without focusing on the happiness of other people, the journies and hardships everyone went through in order to achieve the goal, the self can never be happy. Therefore, it it much more important to help others achieve happiness than try and achieve it by onesself. Only by fulfilling the needs of the other, is the self fufilled.

