"I buy myself things to make me feel better."  How often have you heard your friends say these words?  Maybe you have even used them yourself.  Certainly, "retail therapy" as it is often called is a very modern way to buy happiness for many people.  But, is all this buying really good for us?  Is it good for the environment?  Is it good for our ever more cluttered homes?  Or, would modern society be better off if we returned to focusing more on our actual needs than on purchasing the extraneous material possessions that seem to take so much of our focus?  I believe that if we were to focus more on what we needed and less on what we wanted, our lives and those of the people who will come after us would be much better.

On a simple level, our lives seem to be more and more cluttered with knick knacks, domahickees, stress relievers, clothes we will hardly ever wear, and tools we cannot remember how to use.  We buy on impulse.  The advertisers that shape the world around us convince us that we need the lastest pants to make our butts look good or drinks to replace coffee and make us healthier.  One cannot go through the modern world without being bombarded with advertisements.  We feel the need to earn more just to be able to afford the things we do not really need.  Thereby, we work more.  We spend less time with family and friends.  We constantly have to find more room for more stuff.  And all of this is simply on a personal level.  On a greater scope, people purchasing more goods means more raw materials have to be mined or grown.  Those raw materials have to be processed, leading to greater amounts of waste and more use of energy.  When one of the largest production sites in China had to be shut down due to Covid 19, the clearing of the air was visible from space.  But, as soon as the crisis was over, we returned to our ever-more consuming ways and the window of clean air vanished.

Some would say that the consumerism and materialism that we have today have led to a more cohesive world unit.  The nations of the world come together to provide the modern consumer what he or she wants.  This may be the case, but at what cost?  If we are continually damaging the planet and making our own lives worse, is it really bringing us all together?  

Returning to a time period where we paid more attention to our actual needs may not be possible.  Certainly, living in society free of advertisements and relentless materialism seems unlikely to happen any time soon.  But, perhaps if each one of us took the time to actually pay attention to what the true cost of our impulse buys are, we would buy less.  If we thought about how long these items will last and where they will go in the future, we may make better purchasing decisions.  If we asked ourselves, can I live without it and find happiness in a different way, we may find a more lasting happiness that we could ever imagine.  We can only dare to dream.
