                   it create many affects people. that creat lot of images and impressions should clear people distruct the advertisements. many people should image so i choose the brad. but reallity they don't care product quality. it mainly clear purpose of owners. managed special product benefits and good quality check. the government should some unrelated products to sale in the only money and the profit basis. people always affect the issues.
                    The main content advertisement and colorful images and fancy product. they are always affect the people health. so don't aware the issues. it is mainly people should take reality and clever thoughts. that talk all people speech in socialisam but all are not aware the issues. mainly people and children and parent should aware all products to buying them. that one second you take try it and face the problems. that clarity in the product it was main. goods are product should main the design of the variety. people should take always advantage of the main prompt. 
                        There always proposed the GST is the main problem of all country and recently it was big issue of india. mainly that searched in the issues. the problem should taken the clear purpose of all set of people. mainly contempt always people awareness related. All stores in the society please should take people health related issues mainly they awared the issues. proper telling them issues and collect the advantage of the impressions. but say important ability of people caring in the society. and clearly advance the purpose of man thinking and advertisement. they only impresed purpose of issues not bothering me. They collect the chemical items and design the product. the always affect the people health and body. government should take award of people health and people valuable money. they don't aware them it was big risk of society and my country. they take people money and health always caring in my self and others. always health it is imporant. don't colorful package and media enteretaines and public figures don't trust the words. the words not mainly true purposes. it only salary basis the advertisments.
