I strongly believe that more success can be achieved by cooperation than by competition. Success is an aspiration for every human life. Yet we all have our doubts as to what constitutes success and how it can be achieved. Our persuit of success has driven us in serach of a perfect formula for it. Two of the most important contenders are cooperation and competition. However, in today's complex world with many different view points and varied abilities the proper formula for sucess remains in the ability to cooperate, coexist and achieve success as a unit!
Success is defined in different ways in different walks of life. There is professional success, personal success, spiritual success and success for the society and the world as a whole. The definition of sucess also varies form person to person. While some people define success as a final destination some feel it is more of a journey that they love to take on. The paths to achieve sucess is also complex. Some feel success is a mindset and some feel success is something that can be quantified and judged. Anyway we look at it success requires some basic components. We need the desire, pathway, tools and a plan. If we investigate each of these components it is clear that a competing mindset does not satsify success in the long run. Cooperation and understanding of the ground realities along with emotional intelligence can bring about lasting success which carries a true value in the long run. In other words success achieved by cooperation creates something bigger than the sum of its parts and brings lasting joy and happiness.
Cooperating with our fellow human beings brings us emotional wellbeing and the success achieved is sweeter and more permanent. Personal ambitions may bring temporary success, but is untimately not satisfying to the soul. This is because we humans are basically built to cooperate and exist. Cooperation has been the key to our survival as a species from the time of early man. Thus inspite of our differences we are happiest when we are in harmony with fellow humans and the world around us in general. Thus true success as quantified by a stable human being is brought about by cooperation.
It can be argued that war and personal glory can be brought about by competition. But if we think of anything constructive than cooperation and combined efforts of a lot of people is needed. This is true for a family, society, corporations or the world at large.
Thus it is clear to us that if we aspire for true success which is beneficial to humanity as a whole we need to learn to cooperate and coexist. Our life and the survival of the planet depends on it. Only then can we solve the complex issues that confront us and remain a successful species on earth! 


