Images and impressions are an integral part of how people view the world around them. Some of these images may even go as far as to warp how we view it away from reality. However, it is possible to enjoy impressions and quality images while being smart enough to also understand what is really in front someone.

The Hollywood effect has always been pushing effects and a glamorized look of everyhing. Unfortunately, many people have taken this as a means to their entire life view. This means if something isn't as shiny as it is in the movies, it must not be good enough. This has the potential to ruin jobs, relationships and finances. It also affects how we vote and consume more media. It is a rabbit hole that some people have completely buried themselves in.

Hollywood is not completely to blame. We want to see a glamorized world in moves and TV. We want excitement and sex appeal that we cannot gain in the real world. Hollywood, or the movie industy in general, is jsut creating what we desire. The issue, however, revolves around when consumer take it far enough to have no idea what is reality. This is when we start to see obsessive following of celebrities and politicians. Even though these people are having "real" lives, we are following them as if it were an entertaining movie. We have blurred the line between what is real and what is just a movie. Because we are seeing these as real lives, we are also believe that these are how real relationships are and setting physical standards for people that are unreasonable.

While reality television and celebrity gossip can be easily dismissed as a guilty pleasure, this image distortion can bleed into very important real world issues such as politics. Political ads use the same glamorization techniques to make people feel one way or another about someone that may have no bearing on reality. Cult of personalities have been built on both sides of the aisle, with Donald Trump and Andrea Occasio Cortez as some clear examples. The media and advertising both have taken figures from outside the political world and made them a sort of superstar, without any bearing on their real views or political influence. Impressions created their influence, rather than influence creating their image. 

Political feuds are played up between elected officials to levels that one might see in reality television. This is done both fore entertainment, and in turn views, but also to create an image of a more divisive country. It is better for views and clicks to see a country at odds and a political system where one side is right and the other side is crazy. Images and impressions have created this view much more than reality has.

I believe it is clear that images and impressions can have too much of an effect on people. The entertainment industry and the ad industry thrive on this influence to the extent there may be no reason to seperate those industries. An advertising company can tell you what you want and need rather than them targetting what you already need. Entertainment companies can push a certain person as famous despite having no abilities other than the drama the company pushes. News outlets can make a person seem like the leader you may want despite having no qualifications and no prior history of political alignment with your views. It is a dangerous world when people cannot see this.

As consumers of this media, we need to look deeper into what we are consuming. We should enjoy our movies and other media. We can even follow celebrity gossip and reality television if we like. However, we need to make sure that we dissiminate it for what it actually is. Keeping ourselves out of the rabbit hole will certainly help us have a more accurate view on the world. With just a little observation, we may even find some of the media we consume, we enjoy less. This isn't a bad thing. Liking something because you are influenced to like it is. Be smart with your consumption and reality will seem so much healthier.
