Both competition and cooperation have been touted as important methods for achieving success. However, one is clearly more likely to produce significant, lasting accomplishments, and that is cooperation. While competition can be a strong motivator, it is only through cooperation that we really manage to achieve great things and accomplish outcomes that were previously not viewed as possible. 

Healthy competition is often viewed as a means for motivating people. By pitting people against one another, a person's innate drive to compete with others may motivate them to work harder and develop more innovative results, leading to great accomplishments. However, this can also make for a stressful environment. Stress is not conducive to getting things done. While some may work well in a "pressure cooker" kind of environment, that success is typically only in the short term while they rush to get things done. In the long term, having every man for himself, and competing against everyone you're working with is simply not a feasible method for fostering a healthy working environment and producing lasting accomplishments.

Additionally, while engaging in competition may drive people to achieve important victories, it is more likely that the work done while engaging in competition will be done solely as a means to avoid failure. In a circumstance such as the one outlined above, a person who is competing with others may be focused entirely on the fact that they need to complete one desired outcome so that they do not fail. However, a person or people who are working together cooperatively to complete that desired outcome will instead be working to determine the best, most efficient way to complete that outcome, and will also be coming up with newer, more innovative ways to achieve their same goal, since they do not have the threat of failure over their head. The goal is still the same - to complete the desired outcome. However, the methods used to complete that task will be vastly different. Rather than striving for the bare minimum of completion, the cooperative team can bounce ideas off of one another and develop new strategies and new ideas in the process of completing their task to the best of their collective ability. 

To further emphasize the benefits of cooperation, take for example, team sports, such as a soccer game. In a soccer game, there is competition, of course. Both teams are competing against one another to win the game. However, in order for a team to successfully win, each player on the team needs to cooperate with all of their other teammates. No one player can win a game alone. They need the support of their team. This is the same in a work environment, or any other environment where people are either pitted against one another in competition, or instructed to cooperate with one another. The team that cohesively works together and cooperates will always have more success. In part, this is likely because everyone has different strengths. When cooperating with one another to produce something, the person who is most talented at the technical piece of something can lend support, while another person who may be more successful when it comes to writing can handle that portion of the task. By dividing and conquering together, the team is automatically in a better position than the person trying to do everything themselves, even their weakest task. 

In sum, while healthy competition can be beneficial, people tend to achieve more success by cooperation rather than competition. We all need to work together, to assist one another, and to share in the work to get to where we're going, so that we can all reap the benefits of our hard work. The best and brightest of our time, and the most innovative designs, components, ideas, and aspects were not created in a vacuum, nor were they the result of a single person's genius. Instead, they were a collaborative work done over long periods of time, but what they have achieved was phenomenal.
