When it comes to sucess and achivements, many people believes that it's either by luck or skills, especially in casinos and reality TV shows. Some believe that competiton type stuff can lead to success and many achivements. I believe that the only have to achieve more is by cooperation with someone else you know or don't know. Not only it will help you increase your chances of sucess, but you will improve your social skills.

Competiton will decrease your chances of successing in life because there might be challenges to encounter and go through to getting achivements and winnings. One of the most common reasons is because of someone else have the same ideas and goals as you do and they want to success as well. Rivaries are the second reason why and this will lead to you not getting along with others and increase your chances of developing mental health problems along with people hating you for many different reasons. For example, in Hell's Kitchen, during Season 9, Elise was known for her manipulation and bad attitude. Majority of the fans hated her as she caused many problems and believed that the producers keep her for drama-related stuff when it wasn't the case as people said that they want drama ONLY from when Gordon Ramsay yells at the chefs and not from the former CONTESTANTS. When Jennifer went home instead of Elise in the final 5, fans are extremely pissed and not happy about her elimination and believed that Elise should have went home. When Elise is not competing in shows, she spends her time exercsing and doing some cooking sometimes. Competiton will also make you over-work and lose track of your time and life.

There are some people that have achieved something in their life due to teamwork and cooperation. For example, in the reality TV show, Survivor, one of the most important ways to make it far in the game is social skills and cooperation. If you have a good amount of history when it comes to teamwork, contestants will like you more and you can help your team win the challenges. However, cooperations can sometimes lead to alliances getting formed and you might end up in a threat by other contestants or being a great help in the alliance, especially if you end up making the merge. In Season 16 (Micronesia), an alliance was formed in the Dabu tribe called the Black Widow Brigade and their goal was to blindslide all the men when it time to vote someone off the competition and pretend that they will promise to keep the guys in the game, only to backstab them in the end. They didn't use any ethical tactics or their strenths in the challenges the show offer. Instead, they use cooperation and manipulation to keep the alliance alive and one of the members of the alliance eventaully end up being the official winner of Micronesia.

Cooperation are a perfect task to do in school projects as well, like partnering up for the science fair or making the best poster for a project. You will be accepted in more job opportiunities and be in higher classes if you have a lot of skills when it comes to cooperations. More people have made more friends and lasting romantic relationships compared to those who only focused on competiton. Social skills will increase your chance of getting along with more people in your background as well.

I have success in a goal I have in my life thanks to a classmate when I was in high school. During a class project in English class, I got along with my two partner and give them many suggestions for our project. We discuessed our ideas to each other before we made a conclusion of the idea we can use. Then, we begin making a poster and I designed the poster with another partner due to amazing art skills we have. In the end results, my team end up getting a A+ for doing so well in the project and developing our cooperation skills.

Many people believe that competiton will help them earn accomplishments and achivements in their lives. However, cooperation is the best options for everyone due to getting along with others more and having more success in your life. Because cooperation and friendship will help you in the very end.
