There is a seemingly similar outcome between making yourself happy and making others happy. There is, however, a line that must be drawn to ensure that your happines doesn't get overshadowed by making others happy more often than yourself. Making others happy can give you a temporary feeling of satisfaction, because you probably feel like you have make your mark in the work making others happy. Don't do it so often that you end up feeling insignificant. 
Your own happiness may be derived from ensuring that others feel pleased that are around you and that you care about. But, there is an underlying part of you that needs to feel like they are important and have a place in the world other than worrying about others all the time. Opening the door for people is one thing, standing there holding it open for the entire days worth of customers is another. You don't want your own happiness to be overshadowed by the illusion that putting yourself last makes you a better person. 
One might argue that in order to be a good, and happy,person you have to consider others, while that is true, you can't allow yourself to be completely consumed with the feelings of others. Your own true self has to be looked after as well, because nobody else is going to do it for you. It isn't always true, that if you sacrifice yourself, you will reap the benefits, sometimes you just end up with nothing and no appreciation. There is a common goal that is important to work towards in every day life and that is to be happy and succeed based on your own definition of the words. 
All in all, there is a good amount of evidence to support the fact that your happiness has to come before others, and that is the fact that, most people end up feeling empty after giving their all and receiving nothing in return. If it's something you wanted to do all along and it wasn't just for other people, then you will feel fulfilled without the recognition. Don't even put people in front of yourself, at least not for too long. You can't base your happiness on what someone else deems as fulfilling. 
The improvement of humanity is great, we could all use some improvement in that area, but we have to come together as a team to accomplish such a goal. It can't be just one, or a few people consumed with making humanity better. We can offer how we feel and how it can improve based on our own experiences, but beyond that, we can't give our all, all of the time for something that we are leading constantly instead of joining. 
It is a major source of friction in a lot of relationships, friendships or otherwise, when one of the people start focusing on themselves and how they can make their own life better. If we have to constantly pick others up off the floor instead of cleaning the crumbs off our own, then we become a shell of ourselves and can't give our all to any causes because now, we are nothing more than robotic and lost. 
Being there for a friend can make you feel like you are on top of the world, the best friend and person, but if you are left feeling like you didn't contribute anything to your own good, You won't be able to continue to be this great friend that  you had initially set out to be. Focusing on others means you aren't a selfish person, but really, if you think about it, you are being selfish by not giving the world the best parts of you. Giving the world fragments of yourself can actually be viewed as selfish because you wanted to give away pieces of yourself for instant gratification instead of considering the long term objectives that are necessary. 
A common goal is great, and it can help you to feel like you really belong to something, but you can't ignore yourself. Caring about others is great, putting others needs ahead of your own makes you selfless, but doing this too much can cause more harm than good. Do yourself and the world a favor and pour as much energy as possible into yourself so people can see what they have been missing out on. Don't make the human race go without seeing the uniqueness and trueness that is you when you put yourself first, at least some of the time. Think about that child you once were and what that child hoped they would be like when they got older and focus on that. This can include a common goal, but that's shouldn't be the only focus, the main focus should be what makes you tick, what makes you happy, what makes you feel grounded and successful. Think about what you wanted to be when you grew up, what kinds of friends you wanted, and what kind of clothes you wanted to wear. Give yourself permission to look in the mirror and say, I want to make this person really happy. It's okay to do that. 
