Someone once told me "You never get a second chance to make a first impression". I know this all too well today considering people seem to not be as authentic as one would wish for. People worry too much about what others will think of them and want the reward and gratification for themselves and not enough on sharing their true appreciation for other.

I think if the world spend more time working together then people would not be so focused on self image and trying to give an unrealistic impression to others. People sometimes will go in to debt by purchasing fancy cars, clothing, going to expensive restaurants and living outside their means just to act as if they are better than another person. In fact, look how today Tik Tok, Facebook Reels has created so many filters for people. While technology may be nice, it can definitely separate people from communicating together. This would also bring people (meaning the world) together as truly one nation under god.

So while we can appreciate many things in life we can only hope we are at the best in heart, mind, body and soul within ourselves. Being nice, friendly, and helping towards others can be a positive image making a very lasting impression on not only someone but also within ourselves. Being yourself is authenticity in the making and one should stand strong and true taking pride in one's self. 

What you may see online or outside in the world may not always be what is going on in someone's life behind closed doors. There are people who truly only care about themselves and don't care who they hurt as long as they get what they want. Unfortunately, we can hope to be a positive influence on them but it will be up to them to make better choices. Image, self worth are very important qualities to posess. First impressions are everything and to remain true to yourself with kindness is the impression I want to create an image of not only to myself, but to God, my family, friends, loves ones  forever. 

Impressions are important whether they are good, bad, lasting or shortlived. We should never judge a book by its cover and also not judge somes image based on whether or not they can express themselves in the best way. We should pay attention in person and invest our time in those people to identify if they are better people than what others give them credit for. We should not judge someone just by how much money they have or what they wear and how they dress. It are those things that causes our world to be divided. This is not an image or an impression I want to remember for the rest of my life. 

