First impressions will always have a physcological effect on humans because of the way it manipulates the brain. People will always judge things or individuals on their first impression or image because that is the way we perceive the value of somebody. Someone who dresses nicely, has an expensive car, goes on expensive dinner dates, and posts these things on his social media might give the impression that he is a rich person but he can be fooling you. When talking to someone you just met their first impression or image is how we will judge that person for the remainder of the conversation, a bias of sorts that gives us a way to talk to that individual.

Impressions and images have too much of an effect on people but it is not easy to control because of how our brain works, we will always judge a product or a person based on their appearance and first impression because it is just safer for us, however it can be a very dangerous thing that can be used against us. For example, a politician can manipulate his brand image into being this succesful businessman who is very well off and can help the economy based solely on his words and appearance. Products can use this tactic too by having appealing imagery that has nothing to do with the product just so we are inclined to buy it.

While impressions have a huge effect on an individual it is difficult not too based on how we classify different individuals, we give people different labels just solely based on their appearance because it is just the easiest thing to do as humans. It is dangerous but there is nothing that can really be done to stop it. If someone is in a bad mood when you meet them for example, you will be more inclined to believe that that person is not a good individual but they might have just been caught in the wrong time, you made an image of a person based entirely on how they were feeling at a certain point in time. It is the appearance that they were angry at that moment that got us fooled into thinking they are not a good a person. Brand image has always been an important thing when it comes to any celebrity because fans will always judge a celebrity based on their public image, it is easy for them to trick someone and be a different person behind closed doors because impressions are so important to how we see some people. 

So next time, don't judge a person so quickly on your first five minute conversation with them, get to know them instead so you can really find out what they are like. We are very quick to judge people which can be seen as a defense mechanism to not trust strangers but in certain occasions, it is better to talk to an individual and get to know them more, they might surprise you.
