In today's society materialism--the accumulation of "stuff" for various reason--has many detractors as well as some advocates. While the aquisition of "things," whether a fancy automobile to impress others, or the latest electronic gadgets, or the purchase of an expensive home for praise from your friends, may be considered frivolous and the sign of insecurity, many times the consumption and purchase of modern luxuries and inventions can add to the enjoyment of the one life we have.

There is a saying that goes, "you can't take it with you." While this is true that once you die, anything that you "own" is no longer of any use to you, while you are alive you should be able to enjoy the finer things and/or newest gadgets if they give you a feeling of pleasure and purpose. One can even leave their belongings to others via their will so that the recipients may also get some enjoyment from the material things.

There are those that argue the acquisition of the newest gadgets is a waste of money when there are already things that exist that fulfill a certain role or serve a particular purpose (e.g. the latest iphone). However what these critics do not consider is that the consumption of the newest gadgets shows that there is a desire for certain types of  productsby the population. This consumption can often induce inventors to come up with new products that in turn can lead to other products that have not even been conceived of previously. This can result in the advancement of human knowledge and living conditions by improved ways to do things.

It is sometimes argued that spending money on certain things is wasteful when there are more important priorities that the money could go to. Though this is true in cases such as when the family goes hungry because the money that should have been used to buy food instead is spent on a new set of golf clubs or computer system, etc. As long as basics are met--i.e. food, clothing and shelter--if the purchase of something adds to your enjoyment and thus your quality of life, one should be able to splurge within reason and treat themselves.

Different people have different reasons to acquiring things. If the purchaser buys something to gain the admiration of their friends, they may be in for a disappointment if said friends are not impressed. However if one purchases something for their own pleasure and quality of life, then it is money well spent. Yes you can't ake it with you, at the same time you only live once. So live it up while you can.



