Success can be defined as being obtained by using competition or cooperation. These two ideas can lead to great achievements or great failures. In our modern world, the question is how is success achieved more? 

Sucess is the art of achieving the goals in many forms. It may job related, through sports, through ideas, through obtaining a monetary form. It is often how it is obtained that people find out is more difficult than one might think. In many different scenarios from old times in history to our very complex world, the outcome is not measured but instead how it was obtained.

Success through competition is considered to be one of the most ancient forms. In modern times, it is through different forms that the typical war or pillaging, that many societies did when they wanted to achieve success or claim victory over their neighbor. In today's complex world, Society is limited in its return of sucess through competition. It is because competition leading to sucess has many drawbacks. It can hinder one party while giving the other party victory at the expense of the other party. Their is no gain because one person is hurt. Another drawback of competition is that it promotes unfair advantages to gaining success. This promotes society that draws on cheating and bad ways. This does not advance our complex world. It only takes it back to the old days. Competition is not good for business because one party loses and another gains. Competition promotes the best of the best in society to go against one another but not build from one another. It only promotes the sucess as the out come. 

 The argument that competition would not prevail over cooperation is that one would gain total victory. One would gain the necessary knowledge, infrastructures, minerals, or other physical assets and that it would take a very short process in order to do so. Does this really help people succeed in the long run? If you are looking at it in terms of  helping our complex world, it would be the exact opposite. It would create great divisions that would lead to continued animosity and the need to succeed even more. More conflicts would spawn. More people would be left behind. A new definition of success through competition would lead to even more annihaliation of one group.

Success through cooperation is a more modern way of obtaining the most positive outcome one can get. It is because in this method, everyone wins. They adapt to each other's learning techniques and gain the necessary knowledge on both ends so that all in the complex world will prevail. A good example is in the third world where life is very difficult. Cooperation and succeeding as a team helps all benefit, especially those that can not work or know the knowledge ahead of time. Through cooperation, the individuals are taught the right ways, gain education from their peers who are often way more educated not at the expense, but because they see that their knowledge can help everyone succeed. It is their voluntary will and cooperation that can help build these societies to the threshold they need to be at. They don't have to be left behind at the expense of one group having total victory.  

The Argument against cooperation would be that it is too time consuming. Why would one group that is considered incredibily stronger want to help those that are weaker in society. This can be in any place or realm. For example, the work place has those that are weak and those that are strong. The weak ones will always will prevail and get success, but the stragglers will only make the workplac weaker. It will hurt the group as a whole because the company has to rely on all employees. Another instance would be trying to do a relay. You can't have your best runners in the first races because you will know that the later races will have slower races and that the team will lose at the very end. In order to succeed in both instances, you would need to put a good worker with a bad worker. It will teach the bad worker how to do the job right after a few tries. For the example of the relays. Having a great runner in with a bad runner in the races will even out the playing field. The weak runner will try his hardest and may prevail. If he knows he will hand the baton over to the better runner who knows he is faster, he will easily obtain victory. Everyone is doing their part so the groups will be better

Looking at success through competition against cooperation, it is easy to conclude that sucess will be obtained in the long run through cooperation. People will not have to try as hard. People will have the ability to show their skills, to speak up, to ask questions if they don't know the answer. Society has progressed to become the complex world that it is by the best individuals contributing to the greater cause. The success of these individuals piggy backs the others and helps them improve their self esteem or gain valuable attributes. Everyone prevails. There is no more blood shed. There is no more anger at one another because the one group or person  has prevailed while leaving the rest behind. Had everything been about competition, most would still be left in the dark ages. The enlightenment period of previous times and modern times has signified that people are willing to cooperate and share ideas to improve the world in its various stages.

To sum up this essay, we must look at our present times (the complex world) and think back that we have made it to where we are through cooperation. We have great divisions in this world but because of cooperation and the voluntary will to release knowledge, we have learned to help our fellow man. The great significances, the great achievements were not spawned out of hate, they were spawned because people felt the need to share and contribute to the welbeing of common man as a whole. Only through continued cooperation will man ever gain more and more sucess as an individual and as a unit. America was spawned on freedom and sucess, but also freedom to help and assist others when they are in need. The world envys us and will also aspire to achieve success through cooperation as well. 
