Images and impressions you see them almost every day, especially by those in power or corporate companies, have too much of an effect on regular people. Marketing techniques, or psychological tricks to make products look better than their actual contents definitely have a powerful influence on the people following or looking to buy certain products. Big political influencers or brands have used their image to cover lies, or to deceit people from who they actually are.

An example of this is a marketing campaign from a popular source engine, Google. Google is known to share your information with third parties who may or may not be in your best interest. However google, with their high following and the amount of people who use it have convinced millions of users that their source engine is the best in the peoples interest. With the amount of money and power big corporations have, they can convince millions of people with their flashy ads and enormous user following. This especially happens when someone who is new to the internet; like the elderly, or citizens of developing countries. When you first look for a search engine, google is the first one that comes up which could entice new users to sign up and use their search engine.

However flashy images and ads could also be used as a possible way to increase ones monetary gain. Business startups could use marketing techniques and brands to convince citizens and regular consumers to buy their products. This could increase the amount of businesses in the country which is what drives competition and lowers prices for the average consumer. But, average consumers could also be misled by businesses into buying products and goods where the only price is their brand/logo.

In conclusion, marketing techniques used by big corporations and politicians to entice users to buy their products is usually bad for the average consumer. These products may be low quality, or they may be subject to being misled by politicans who are not in their best interest. One way the average consumer could protect themselves from falling into these traps is by following reviews and reputable sources about that product or politican their viewing. By listening to people who have bought the product, or people who have followed a politician, you can gain a general consensus of the bigger audience; and use that to find out whether or not you want to buy or vote for them. 


