             Some people say that our society is ruled by a  "survival of the fittest" mindset. But what exactly does that mean? Certain people would read that and think that it means that only the strongest and hardest workers will make it in this world. However, this is not the only way to think. Many people are learning that people who are adaptable and can cooperate with others are some of the most successful among us. It is well proven that working well with others, aka cooperation, is much more important than competition when it comes to accomplishing all of your goals in today's world.
                Everyone needs help once in a while. The phrase "it takes a village" has exsisted for centuries because when people come together to achieve the same goal, they are the most successful. The ability to cooperate with others is absolutely essential. Others may have skills and viewpoints that you do not possess. Cooperation allows you to take the best qualities from others, and use them to your advantage. Working with others also helps you foster lifelong friendships, community ties, and even buisness connections. Lacking this skill can end up being a major detriment to people both socially and professionally.These are just some of the many reasons why cooperation is absolutely essential in today's world.
                 We have all met competitive people in this world. They exsist all around us and would say that our world is a "dog eat dog" world where the strongest of us  prevail and the weakest among us perish. One reason they may have to support this argument is the theory of evolution. Has it not been proven that the strongest of the species go on living while the weakest die out? That is certainly one way to look at it. Another, more sensible way would be to say that the species that were able to adapt and coexsist peacefully with other species are the ones that have longevity. A competetive person might also look at a CEO of a major company and point out that that person's competitive drive is what got them to their point of success. That may be true. However, ask yourself if that person is well-liked? Do they have meaningful relationships in their life? Probably not. A competitive nature may take you places in life. But, without cooperation, those places will feel shallow and meaningless.
                In conclusion, although competition can help you achieve success in one way, cooperation will help you achieve success in all areas of life. Success is not just how much money we earn or how good we are at something. The true definition of success is excelling in your field, but also in your personal life. Without utilizing cooperation, this is utterly impossible.


