Personal experience and environmental factors drives individual goals. In a country where servant leadership is difficult to mix in business, Americans focus on the goals self-happiness before the happiness of others. Ironically, though, social management and conformity research makes the pursuit of happiness more diffcult in practice. Researchers can validate this ideology by evaluating Maslow's Hierarchy of needs. In this theory, individuals need basic human securities achieved, before conformity, and fulfillment.
The context of one's environment matters. As an individual, growing up as an only child, in a multi-religious household, authority figures assigned my earliest goals. In the K-12 setting, the goal was to be prepared for a independent future, with a steady income and company issued insurance. Combining education and work experience opens one's mind up to the possibilies of what could be if an individual continues to work towards betting their situation. Throughout my undergraduate work, the public safety field was my main income, which provided enough for living above the poverty line, after accounting for all expenses. These needs are basic for survival. Later, when offered free educational benefits through an employer, I took advantage of this opportunity, only to find that conformity in the corproate setting was much more challenging after coming from a policing background. Studying leadership helped me to realize that individuals conform to workplace cultures and job field or departmental cultures, often sacrificing one of their values for the sake of a steady income, belonging, and keeping a peaceful work environment. It is not until the top of the pyramid, for me, it was my doctoral program, where I could evaluate myself to best fit the needs of business, homelife, and the life of an academic. In theory, being mindful of one's actions, should end as a benefit to myself and for those around me. 
By folowing Maslow's theoretical framework if one focuses on themselves first, the happiness of others will result. This response is the result of basic needs being accomplished and one being able to evaluate the life one lives. In the end, those that are unstable in human securities such as food, shelter, employment, or safety, cannot best provide for others during a deficiency. The impact of the pandemic explified needs in all directions,  especially for unmet needs on the bottom of the pyramid.
