I believe true happiness can only be found when one focuses on the happiness of others. Some people would say that this is just religious propaganda, but I think it has a strong basis in psychology. When we focus on ourselves, we become so hyperfocused on achieving the golden ring, we tend to view the smaller successes as failures.  When we are focused on others, we are better able to see the big picture and are more aware of the little successes along the way. 

Take the high school athelete who wants to be the star quarterback.  He craves the glory and wants the accolades.  He trains daily and no longer has time for loved ones (grandparents, siblings, friends) who he feels distract him from this all consuming goal.  He is competitive in all aspects of the game and focuses on outperforming anyone who he feels is a threat to his goal.  In addition, he will often find fault in others who doesn't live up to his performance standards.  For this young man, there is without a doubt, an I in Team. In the end, his hard works earns him a place on the team but as the 2nd string quarterback.  In his eyes, he is a failure, he feels all of his effort was for naught. He feels embarrassed when he sees friends and family, thinking they will see him as a failure. 

There is also the "nerd" of the school.  He is also a sports fan, but feels he does not have the talent to make the team.  He wants his team to do well, so he decides to start a tutoring club for team members who may not be able to play due to poor grades.  He works several hours per week with team members, and sees them bring their grades up to C's.  Not a grade that he would be pleased with, but he rejoices in the fact that a small improvement has allowed the boys to play the game they love.  He experiences genuine happiness for their success and his part in it.

Many in the United States have a "Look after #1" attitude, they have to be richer and more succesful than anyone else.  We have lost the "When one succeeds, we all succeed" attitude that other nations seem to have. I believe it's the reason we have such inequity in our country today.  The focus of my work is improving the lives of people in my community, I think I am one of a dying breed that truly loves their work and looks forward to every new day.


