It's hard to say whether modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. On one hand, it makes people with greater means feel superior and makes people with lesser means feel bad. I think people can't help it and use it as a coping mechanism to deal with lots of other problems people have to deal with. If they buy stuff that they really like and aren't buying just for the sake of buying, then it's fine, because their isn't any ill intent. People are constantly inundated with advertisements, and people grow up only knowing materialism. So no, modern society should be criticized for being materialistic.

Modern society shouldn't be criticized for being materialistic because many people use it to help cope with their problems. A lot of people buy things because it makes them feel better. It's hard to know what people are going through. People might buy a nice car because it makes them feel good, and help them cope or forget about something going on in their lives or something in the news. It isn't fair to judge people for that if that is the case. People might buy a nice shirt or jacket because they're having a bad day and that's all they know. Or they might really want something because it has meaning to them, and that's not such a bad reason to buy something.

Modern society shouldn't be criticized for being materialistic because people these days don't know any better. People grow up and from the minute they can read or watch TV, they are hit with an influx of advertising, all doing their best to try and get people to buy their products. People don't know any better. As kids, people are told to buy every toy, and then people get older and they're told to buy every snack, all the clothes, all the cars, and much more. So I don't think many people really think about it all that much. I think mentally, it is in people's minds and they don't second guess their behavior.

It is hard to criticize modern society for being materialistic because people have been trained and forced their entire lives to know nothing else. They use it to cope with their problems and feel good, so it's not good to judge people so much for it.
