     In modern society, a healthy dose of skepticism is one of the most important qualities that a human can equip him or her self with. The "reality" that we are presented with on a day to day basis by advertisers, politicians, news media, social media influencers is often an extremely skewed image that bears only a passing resemblance to the actual reality. A cynic might argue that these misdirections or outright lies are a modern problem, but in reality, it is human nature to manipulate reality for one's personal advantage, and it has been occuring as long as humans have interacted.  When left unchecked by rational analysis, the impact of images that may not reflect reality can be exceptionally negative. However,  I would argue that the impact left by impressions and images is not the main concern, but rather the lack of critical analysis the average human is willing or able to leverage against those images prior to determining their action or state of mind. 
     Misdirection and perception management are not new concepts. Humans have always sought to adjust the way that others feel about certain ideas, people, or actions. Some of these efforts have had noble aims, some have had sinister goals, and many more have been driven by something in between. Human responses to these skewed realities vary, but certain responses are incredibly difficult, if not impossible, to avoid from a physicological or physiological perspective. When a meat lover sees a pizza commercial with a pepperoni pizza on it, parts of his or her brain will light up and try to convince him or her that pizza should be for dinner. This process occurs all throughout the day, on both a commercial and an interpersonal scale. The most negative aspect of this quest for positive impressions is not the impressions themselves, but rather the inability or unwillingness of individuals to challenge the percpetions they have on a personal level. It is impossible to avoid being impacted by advertisers, politicians, pundits, or even friends and family. However, it is not impossble to question whether the images you have been presented with are an accurate reflection of reality. 
     One might argue that the appearence management discussed here is inherently dishonest, and further that this dishonesty is unavoidably negative. I would counter this broad brush generalization by stating that at some level, this type of appearnece management is a necessary and integral aspect of the human experience. If all interactions were coldly logical and brutally honest, much of the nuance of the human experience would be lost.  Personal appreciations for different types of cuisine would be a thing of the past, social tact would no longer be possible, and interpersonal dynamics would change for good. I would agree with the idea that maliciously attempting to manipulate reality is not a positive action, but feel that to argue that all impressions have too large of an impact on people is to remove an incredibly important sector of our experience as humans. 
     Misdirection and attempts to twist reality in a favorable light are tactics that have been used for the entirety of human history. These tactics, while not completely transparent, are not inherently negative. However, when observers approach their life without the ability to examine situations and their responses to them with a critical eye, problems can arise. If people used a more nuanced lens when analyzing the world around them, they would be far more effective in navigating the human landscape. 
