I tend to believe that people achieve more success through cooperative efforts.  However, I probably hold this stance based on my own personality.  Some people would probably be more motivated by the thrill of competition, and of course, competition certainly has its place in the larger scheme of things.  But I think working together, harmoniously, to achieve a common goal is where it's at.

When groups work together they bring a multitude of ideas and points of views to the task at hand.  This allows members of the group to learn new approaches and solutions.  It also helps members release stagnant methods of thinking; knocks the cobwebs off the brain, so to speak.  Within the group there's bound to be members present that are smarter or more knowledgeable, so there's a constant opportunity to learn something new and to expand yourself.   

However, for those that are not motivated by the cooperative dynamic, it could cause some friction.  The more competitive personality may constantly look for ways to undermind the group in order to make themselves look good or to stand out.  Competitive personalities may feel the need for the spotlight that doesn't necessarily exist for them within the cooperative structure.  This competitive personality could become bored and find the structure to rigid for their liking.

Despite the differences between cooperation and competition, I do feel that the cooperative dynamic is best in order to achieve long-term and long-lasting success.  I think through cooperation one is able to create bonds with fellow collaborators.  I think there is a greater opportunity for learning and vetting of ideas.  I also think cooperation helps us  learn to be less selfish and focus on the well-being and needs of others.  

I think we would all benefit through cooperation and helping one another achieve success.  As the saying goes, there is no "I" in "TEAM". So through the power of cooperation, we build a stronger team, that will in turn benefit all its individual members.
