I believe that people are happier when they work towards a goal that improves the lives of others rather than themselves. When a person is focused on others less fortunate then themselves, they are able to appreciate what they already have and this reduces want in their own lives. For example; take someone who does not have food insecurity but cannot afford luxury dining. By helping out at a food bank for the homeless, they may realize that they are very fortunate to be able to say they do not go hungry. Helping out in my own life has certainly brought me great joy. 

I beleive that as we help others we feel better about ourselves knowing that we have improved the lives of someone else just by spending a short amout of our time. Spending time with people who need us makes us feel that we have really contributed to the quality of life of another person. Giving things we no longer need allows us to feel less wasteful and may even help us to waste less, and that helps the environment as well. 

I work with college students coming from all walks of life and backgrounds. Helping students and parents has been one of the great joys of my life. Watching them walk across the stage at graduation and remembering how different they were in that first day brings me continued joy and drives me to continue to work hard to find solutions for each one of them. Being able to help them find scholarships, to see a first generation college student find a way to begin that journey towards their goals of success is priceless. In ten years of experience it is not the students who struggle financially that fail, it is the ones that have everything given to them by their parents. This is an example, in my opinion, of how much more something means to us when we not only have a financial stake in the outcome, but how having scholarships from money donated to students helps them feel worthy and like they need to succeed to pay back what was paid forward to them. 

When we spend time with people who have less we tend to feel that we have more. Focusing on ourselves only may help us reach goals like more money, but money has never truely brought happiness to anyone, It only serves to take the sting out of being poor. Money does not enrich friendships or relationships. The plight of lottery winners should teach us that lesson. So many who suddenly find themselves rich tend to go on spending sprees with homes larger than they need or can support long term. Family relationships and friendshp suffer when they say no to loans or gifts of money. They tend to lose it all, and lose it quickly. This is a result, as far as I am concerned, with focusing on ourselves rather than others. 

In conclusion, we should all strive to set goals to help others where and when we can. Taking the time to lift someone else up provides us with a window into the what if that no one is immune to. It also helps us to appreciate what we already have. A mixture of both, in my opinion is best. Meeting our own goals can allow us all to have more resources to help others and in turn help ourselves. I have been at the bottom as a single mother with three kids making less than ten dollars an hour. I know how that felt and how much I appreciate all those who took the time to help me work my way up to having a great career and a master's degree. Being on both sides now, I definately belive that giving is far superior to getting. I give back because of all those poeple who paid it forward to me over the course of my lifetime. This includes teachers, advisors and charities that helped me as I raised myself up with their help. No one makes it in this world completely alone. 
