People are easily manipulated by images and impressions. Even so-called "free thinkers" are easily swayed by pesuasive messages that they might not even recognize as such, cooerced subtly into believing what others want them to. From ads to news to entertainment to our social media feeds, what we percevie as "reality" is carefully cultivated and arranged to convince people of a specific version of the truth.

Ads, to start with, frequently inflate, overstate, or outright lie about the properties of the product they are advertising. People often pay for a name, a brand, an "experience"  instead of anything practical that the product's advertisement promises it will do. This is the power of manipulation - convincing people to pay high prices for things they don't need, and would not have even wanted, before seeing the advertisement for such products.

Entertainment does the same thing. It shows us idyllic families and societities that are unattainable in real life. It sets unrealistic standards that no normal working person can achieve on their own. These fictional over-idealized depictions of humanity are frequently coupled with in-show advertisements or endorsements of their own, trying to influence the audience to support certain brands, or back certain causes, or believe certain ideals. This - even when it may be well-intentioned - is still manipulation, and a kind of manufactured reality.

The news can be guilty of the same thing. They may report selectively based on the news organization's political slant - casting certain public figures in a positive or negative light. In some ways, what news organizations sell isn't information - but ideology. There is a market for people to have their preconceived notions and ideals confirmed by an official-sounding talking head. This creates an echo chamber in which the beliefs of the viewer never go challenged, and they are reinforced to dutifully watch the same channel over and over to have their own beliefs confirmed. Either side of the ideological spectrum can be guilty of this, and this is by no means specific to any particular viewpoint. The main issue is that it is a feedback loop of confirmation to ensure regular viewership and support, rather than a straightforward and unbiased presentation of the facts as they happen.

Politicians themselves, of course, also engage in this kind of manipulation of the truth. They make empty promises, which they never intend to actually fulfill once they take office. Their own constitutents are talked into forgetting those promises were even made in the first place, or at least convinced not to care about them. Politicians will also spout outright falsehoods about their political opponents, all in the name of consolidating power. What matters is not the truth, but the public's perception of the truth - what people "know" to be true is more powerful than what actually is true.

Entertainers too do this. Not just in the fiction of the characters they play in TV and film, but the "fiction" of the "character" that is their off-stage persona. Celebrities have carefully cultivated personalities that they rehearse and act out in interrviews and public appearances, trying their hardest to appear to be perfect and likable at all times - scrubbing away any hints of flaws or faults or humanity. They want to manipulate the public's image of themselves, hiding their own imperfections.

What we think we see can be so powerful that - for all intents and purposes - it "IS" a sort of reality. It informs our actions. It motivates us to believe, to say, and to do certain things. Cultivated reality is a powerful thing, one that advertisers, politicians, and public figures try all too hard to wield to get the public to believe the specific "truths" they want them to believe. Being aware of how this works is vital to believing the objective truth - which of course is not conducive to people who want to manipulate the views and opinions of others. 

At its worst extreme, misleading images can motivate people to horrendous acts of violence and hatred. People can be taught to dehumanize others for being different than they are, and this cultivated "reality" (some people are inferior to me) can cause people to do horrible things. We have seen this in everything from Nazi Germany to the apartheid South Africa to the deeply segregated south of the 1950s. Images of "other" people were manipulated and twisted into being demonized, vilified, portrayed as monsters. And this motivated people to actively harm those people, or at the very least become indifferent to harm committed upon them.

Obviously, not every act of manufactured reality can or should be compared to such serious attrocities, of course. But manipulation of your perception of reality can convince you to make poor choices that affect yourself or other people. This can ultimately compromise your ability to function as a rational actor. 

I think it is important to be aware and vigilant of other parties' attempts to influence our perception of reality. We can be easily swayed to believe things that aren't true if we do not guard our minds, and it is vital that we take a critical view of ads, news, entertainment, and politicians who try to influence our perception of what is and isn't real. If we don't, we might be misled into something truly bleak.
