Does one achieve more success through competition or cooperation? While it can be argued that some healthy competition is a good motivator, I believe cooperation is the better of the two in the long run. What would humanity have achieved if not for cooperation? Imagine a world with no society, no tribes, but only people fighting to one up eachother and be the best. 
 
 Cooperation has shaped the world into what it is today, Rome could not have built by a single man competing to create the most beautiful city. Competition can also become an annoyance when someone makes every little thing into a contest, and puts others down for not doing as well as they did. Competition between groups or societies can be a good thing and can lead to advances in science and culture, however I believe the world would be a better place if all the countries in the world worked together and cooperated to achieve their goals. 
 
 In the end though, you must take things in a case by case basis. One man may achieve more success in his life by being competitive, while another might lead himself and others to success through cooperation and group effort. If somebody isn't a people person and doesn't work well with others, competition may be their best motivator. I believe both cooperation and competition are part of human nature, but in my opinion humans and humanity achieve more success in the long run through cooperation. Many people from different countries are competitive in petty ways about their country being better or people from another country being worse and it does little to help anyone. Friendly competition between athletes could motivate the two of them to improve but in a team based sport cooperating with your teammates is obviously more important. 

 In conclusion I believe competition is more important, and people as a whole or society achieves more through cooperation. On the individual level many may achieve more success in life through cooperation but many will also achieve success through being competitive. But to me one person achieving success isn't important in comparison to society as a whole advancing. Humanity in general never would have gotten to where it is if everybody thought competition was more important than cooperation.
