The meaning of life, and what our purpose is on this planet, has been the topic of debate for hundreds, if not thousands, of years. Why are we here? What is our purpose? Why should we get up everyday and live life according to societal standards? One important question regarding this is: why do we care so much about our economic status? Is it mainly because it is a means of sustaining a comfortable lifestyle? However, we do not always use money just to simply survive. We also use it as a means of pleasure. A way to impress others. A way to hold power over others. Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic because of its' influence on society, endangering those in poorer economic classes and the overall level of happiness money actually provides. 

Materialism is an unfortuante aspect of modern society; and its' power over people leaves an unbalanced, and arguably unfair, means of contorl. People who are in possesion of vast wealth, tend to be recogniziable in society. Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk, Donald Trump...when one hears that name, usually the first thing to come to mind is their massive fortunes. Our society equates money with intenellegence and usually look to them in matters of financial manners. Arguably, they might hold some knowledge, but can one say that every wealthy person is smart? Not necessarily. Donald Trump shocked the world when he was nominated President in 2016. Many will argue that if it were not for his millions of dollars, he would never had been even considered a serious canidate. He was able to do what politicians struggle to do for every election: raise funds to run a successful campain. It sends an ominous message that with a lot of money anyone could be president. One would no longer need to work hard, or have a long career in politics to be the most important person in the country. This is how modern society has changed for the worse. 

The huge divide between the upper and lower economic classes has always been a problem in our society. Materliasm is a huge contributer to that problem. When those of the upper classes flaunt their wealth, like in public or social media, it leaves those in lower econmical classes with feelings of worthlessness. How can one with limited financial means compare to those who posses money, multiple houses and cars, and brand name items? Why continue going to work at job making barely minimun wage when you'll never be able to buy the next Prius or Lamborgini? How can only raise their status and worth in the eyes of their peers if they can not show it in what they own? This leaves the lower classes with feelings of anger, hatred, and resentment towards the upper classes. This only furthers the divide between classes and makes it harder to reach a more equal economic fondation. 

The famous saying "Money can't buy happiness" rings true to many people. People see celebraties with their expensive yachts, mansions, and clothes and think they must be the happiest people in the world. But that is not always the case. Even people who come into money, like those who win the lottery, have said that the large amount of money did not bring the level of happiness they had expected. Money does not make problems disappear; but sometimes that is a lesson that can only be learned the hard way. People go into debts, have to take out loans or apply for extra credit cards when they find that money can only go so far. While money can bring brief enjoyment, eventually that high will come down. Casinos are a lucrative business becuase people want to keep that high going. The more they win at the slots, the happier they feel. However, that feeling comes crashing down when they eventually lose it all. Equating money to happiness has made our society greedy for a means to allievate our problems. However, it only further exacerbates them. Our soicety should be punished for promoting wealth as a means to living a better life. 

In conclusions, modern society needs to be criticized for being materialistic. It causes problems by allowing those who own wealth to hold power over not only people, but countries. It creates further strife between upper and lower economic classes, leaving little chance for a more equal economical state for all. Finally, equating material goods with one's level of happiness leaves many struggiling to find contentment in their lives due to the neverending batter of acheiving financial wealth. Modern society can be praised for many advancements in regards to equality in gender and race; but it still has a long way to go when it comes to economic statuses. Materialism is something we should be ashamed of for continuing to promote it. 
