Society should absolutely be criticized for being too self centered and focused on money. I would suggest that the acquisistion of money and goods has become the sole reason many people live. The need to be rich and show it off, to be a bragging child, has replaced common morals and decency for many people. In doing this, people build their lives as a house of feathers, ready to fall at the first sign of real life conflict. This is a way of letting people's egos rule them, and to not set correct boundaries with other people or with the uncertanties of life. A person ruled by ego and by the opinions of others is a person who is sure to fail in life. They may be rich and ostentatious, but inside their minds they will be a raging storm of insecurity, doubt, and self hatred, because they can truly never be the best. There will always be someone better, and these people have not learned to understand this and come to peace with it. In the short term, buying things can give a sense of satisfaction, but it is sure to blow away like a fall leaf eventually. All things need to be in their place in life, and materialism is one of those things. True happiness in life can be found in the enjoyment of simple things, relationships with others, and good works. Making the world a better place by your being in it, not by taking pictures of yourself constantly and bragging about your new whatever. This only creates envy and dislike. It reinforces and promotes these traits in others, because there is often not someone there to tell them they are leading an empty life and guiding them towards healthy behaviors. Society jams these false morals down the throats and eyeholes of every american, because the aims of all big business is to make money, and big business rules everything. You can find positive messages, but you need to search them out, and materialists are generally lazy and are not interested in these messages anyway. They are mental children who only care about satisfaction and ego massage right now, all the time, even when they have done nothing to deserve it. Imagine a hugely obese baby, being force fed 24/7 while surrounded by hundreds of screens screaming ads and blaring simplistic music with unhealthy messages at it. In a way, this is the average day for many people. Who can we blame? The society we live in. It creates sick people, and stunted minds. Society needs them, because they will feed it back with all of it's money. The snake eats it's own tail, and the cycle moves on day after day. The way to break it is to learn to know yourself and live your life apart from this cycle. Be positive, enjoy life, help others, and learn. Never stop learning and growing-growing away from the sick mother that is american society. Be your own person, create a happy life, and maybe you'll cause others to do the same. Change begins at home, and your real home is your mind.
