In a capitalist society like our own that seems to prioritize (or overly prioritize?) individualism and self-initiative, it might appear that our entire social and economic structure is based on competition. And maybe that's a good thing too! After all, any introductory economics class will preach that all the efficienies that captialism provides us are a function of competition. (Monoplies, anyone?) However, a more thorough examination reveals that successful competition actually requires a great deal of cooperation under the surface for that competition to even be possible. Thus, insofar as competition is itself predicated on cooperation, it is cooperation that is the more significant driver of success.

Perhaps an example from the sports world can help to illuminate this point. Surely, both athletes and teams drive themselves to greater accomplishment via competition, it would have to be conceded. By striving to beat or defeat an opponent, great athletic feats occur that could never have happened without that competitive spirit Would Michael Jordan have really been the same player if he never played against people who wanted to beat him just as passionately as he wanted to beat them? The same analogy seems to present itself in the corporate space too. Most accounts of the great entreprenuers of our time reveal an intense competitive spirit. They want to change the world, yes, but they also want to win. The stories of Bill Gates and Steve Jobs (to name a few) do not reveal spirits that seemed intent on cooperation at least until after they retired.

But the key thing to realize is that while Michael Jordan surely needed competition to excel and improve, that competition was only meaningful insofar as it occurred within a deeper environment of cooperation. Athletic feats are always a product of teams, even when they occur in individual sports. (Do golfers really learn to hit a golf club all by themselves?) While it is true the Bulls competed against other teams, that competition itself fostered an intense level of cooperation amonst the Bulls itself (at least while they were on the court). It surely seems worth noting that intense competition is often accompanied by sometimes even more intense feelings of camaraderie. Moreover, even when faced with an opponent who vigorously wanted to defeat them, focusing on the competition obscures the fact that while both sides want to win, they wish to win by the playing the game of basketball within the appropriate norms of the game. That itself indicates that while it may not appear that way, the Bulls and their opponents were engaged in a cooperative spirit on a deeper level than the intensity of the competition would indicate. The same is true of course in the business world. Competitive success is only meaningful if one plays by the rules. And to play by the rules requires a deep level of implicit cooperation.

By no means do I mean to suggest that competition is epiphenomenal. But just as we expect teams to shake hands after a game, we also expect competitors in any field to play by the rules and follow the norms. And while sometimes it takes authority figures (referees or the police) to a guarantee of cooperation, we are deluding ourselves if we forget that competing for the same goal requires a great deal of cognitive cooperation regarding what that goal is and how it is to be achieved.
