Happiness is an elusive concept. We strive for it day to day, curious how to catch and keep this feeling. Look at your own life and ask yourself, "Where do I find happiness?" Some say that the folks we spend time with are a reflection of us, and there is joy in brightening the spirits of others. I find happiness in achievement and maintain that setting and meeting personal goals is the most direct way to a happy environment.

Personal goals can be difficult in the beginning. Discipline is a key personality trait for people who are looking to improve their attitude through achievement, and it will come into play often. Each of us can only control what we do, how we process events and situations, and how we react to others. None of us can control the reaction of someone else, but the beauty of making a deal with oneself is that it may be altered as often and as wildly as one desires. When you begin to build the life you want and turn every action to serve that, the rest of life falls into place. 

Seeing joy in the faces of loved ones is a true gift, but can this gift really sustain a person through life? A person can be experiencing an exciting or happy event, but still have a negative attitude due to external forces. No amount of cheering up is going to alter the thing impacting someone's mood. If we place the success or failure of our own efforts on the fickle mood of another, we can never guarantee that our work will yield the same results or that any of the results will be positive.

Happiness is difficult to quantify, and it is ephemeral in its very essence. Sure, making someone smile will give warm fuzzy feelings. Making someone smile in the home that you worked hard for, with libations you curated, surrounded by everchanging friends and family is priceless. Friendships, no matter how deep, will run their course and become more difficult to maintain over time. Achievements live on, as does the pride that comes with setting and reaching goals. The people around will change through the years, but having the knowledge that you can do anything you set your mind to makes even the worst days manageable. Instead of making excuses, you can make a plan.
