Everyone strives for happiness in life, and while there is ultimately no prescriptive formula, we will be significantly happier if we focus on ourselves rather than others. As the old saying goes, "You can't make others happy until you make yourself happy." Indeed, this is often true because we are in no position to help others properly if we cannot help ourselves. We must focus on ourselves, first and foremost to gain the tools to make others happy.

The easiest path to happiness is to figure out what makes you happy and work towards that goal. The process of working towards personal happiness is unique to each of us, however we share a set of general goals including financial, professional, relationship, social, or intellectual goals. The first step is identifying the personal importance of each of these goals, then trying to focus energy on puruing them to the best of our abilities. These goals may be unattainable, but happiness can come simply from the process. The journey to our goals makes us happy - minor successes, knowledge, and experience gained along the way.

Some contend that they are happiest when helping others, however this is only a small part of a larger whole. Achieving personal happiness should be the primary focus because achieving your own goals helps you do everything better. For instance, if you struggle with your own finances, it is hard to use your money to help others. If you have stronger, happier relationships with your friends, your spouse, your family, then you are in a better position to help everyone. Personal professional successes can lead to happiness in other parts of life such as a happier work-life balance, stronger social network, greater financial success, or important connections for charitable giving among many other outcomes. Intellectual success can satisfy inner curiosity and desires and open up career paths, help one gain respect, and aid in the exploration of hobbies and pursuits that satisfy our inner desires.  

Those who are happy with themselves are truly positioned to help others. We can persuade ourselves that we are happy because we make others happy, but when we are alone, we need to be happy with ourselves. The opportunities and successes we have to help others is limited. Conversely, we are always with ourselves and thus in a position to always make ourselves happier. The happier we are with who we are, the better we can help those around us. Happiness starts with ourselves and satisfying our desires as best we can.
