The art of illusion can often come at a price far beyond monetary value. The world today is a compilation of smoke, mirrors, illustions, and truths. It is possible that there are more people interested in selling and investing in the dream of what one can have as opposed to enjoying life and tapping into the reality of what and who we as a society should strive to be. Most of the people we interact with daily are programmed unconsciously to act more over than to be. In the end most people wager the price of an illusionary life that is indeed auctioned to the highest bidder.

The world today is a compilation of smoke, mirrors, illustions, and truths. The truth is who we as a society are is jumbled into a matrix of commercials, billboards, social media, illusions, and reality. Though what percent of reality are we really experiencing and seeing from one another? We can filter our way into an accepted image of beauty. We can borror our way into acquiring things deemed valuable. And it all can seem to be so pretty, posed, and put together, at the detriment of selling ourselves for short lived applauses.

Most of the people we interact with daily are programmed unconsciously to act more over than to be. That is because our impressions of who we are, what we know, and what we have is often a derivative of who we think we must be to a large extent. Images indeed have too much of an effect on people so much so that in quest for acceptance one can sell themselves without often knowing it, for the collectors are forever changing and appealing to what seems to serve the desires of society. 

In the end most people wager the price of an illusionary life that is indeed auctioned to th highest bidder. This is too commonly the case for people who seek relationships with people they feel best compliment them. The effects of imagery to the human mind and  soul are plentiful and vast. And though impression have a large effect on people, it is ultimately their realities that will always show through in the end. 
