Every day, we are bombarded by advertising for products and services. Merchants strive to make us feel lonely, inadequate, and in need of their products to magically change our lives. Capitalist pressure has made modern society far too materialistic. 

Personal care is a good example of this excess. Some goods are useful and healthful; whether the benefit is physical or psychological, they provide us with means to improve our lives. However, the personal care industry cannot afford to stop at meeting our needs. Instead, they strive to manufacture need, convincing consumers that they are lacking something essential for social status and respect. If you don't buy this perfume, this hair color, this lipstick, they sing to you, you will be left by the wayside. The persistent, negative messages leave susceptible consumers believing they never have enough, and never are enough in themselves. Instead, they must keep buying, always hoping that the product to fill that psychological hole will be in the next shopping cart.  The seven colors of nail polish you already have aren't enough; you really need this new shade to be the "best."

Individual car ownership is another example. Transportation is essential for many people. We need it to get to work, to buy food from shops, to visit family and friends. However, car commercials often go beyond utility and feature choices. Instead, they advertise a lifestyle, a status. They strive to create a belief that people MUST consume, must have the newest and most expensive option they can afford just to maintain their status in their community, or get dates, or be respected as an equal. 

As seen in these examples, the goods we purchase serve many uses. Many goods are useful and necessary on their own. However, modern society pressures us to purchase more than is simply useful and necessary; in the interest of profit, we are pressed to pay for designer labels and excessive quantities to show off how good we are at consuming.  To fill their cash registers, merchants are inherently driven to convince us that we always need more.

On an individual level, we do not have a great deal of power as to the marketing messages we see every day. However, we can learn to identify and discard the messages that aren't beneficial to our own well-being. Studying advertiser tactics will help you resist messages that are designed to get you to buy things you do not need or enjoy. In this way, you can make your own life a bit less materialistic, and focus on what you would prefer to be doing with your money and time instead.

