Many people in todays society think they need to spend as much time as possible to gain material possesions. While material possesions are a great thing to have. How much material possesions do we actually need to make our lives better.
 Some people are so material oreinted that they miss out on speical events that may only happen once in a life time. Material focused individual may give up important family time such as the first date or graduation of a child. Granted they may have made enough money to buy more stuff but how much is the possesions they may gain worth all the family time and once in a lifetime memories they have given up and will never get back again. 
But then again most all parent feel they want to give there children far more in material possesions then they recieved in there youth. We all want to give our children more then we had but do we really need to be that driven to make money to buy stuff  to give our children when in the end if all children do not make there own way and just have stuff handed to them on a silver platter generally they think they are intitled to have everything handed to them. I believe we should want to make our childrens world slighlty better but no give them everyhting. Making them work for there own material things in the end will teach them responsiblity and perhaps give them the drive to work hard and make there own way.If kids learn to make there own way it will instill in them the drive to suceed and perhaps when they have families they wont have the sense of gee i wish my aparent would have spent more quality time with me instead of just buying me stuff.

If everyone worked enough to make just a little above what they think they need instead of being material driven there may be less divorce(couples spent more quality time together) instead of 1 spouse doing all the work. There is a strong possiblity that more time spent as a family leads to less crime. Parents spent doing things with there children have a better idea of what there kids are doing then kids left to there own devices
Granted in conlusion all of these ideas are not always practical but if we all took a step back and asked oursleves how much of this stuff do we really need verses what we want the world may just be a better place. If possible give some to people less fortuante to help them make there lives better. Its something to think about weather you agree or disagree.We all must make our own judgement and decisions in the end. Is being material driven really worth everything i may loose verses in the long run the junk i may gain and be able to brag about. Yes i may have better stuff then the jones but did i have to sell my sole to get i? Was it really worth it. Only you as an individaul can answer this for yourself.

