Materialism is an issue that everyone in the modern world runs into regularly during life. Consumption of material goods is a key component that exists in modern society and permeates throughout modern culture. Materialism takes over people's lives and modern society should be criticized for having such a high emphasis on materialism. While humans consume material goods, are we really the ones being consumed by materialism itself?

Materialism affects both the world and individuals to a great extent. For the world, the more materialistic items are produced and consumed, more harm occurs to the environment. Climate change is real and an impending threat to all plant and animal lives, including human lives. Less consumption of material goods leads to less production of material goods and less waste. This will take better care of the environment in which we live.

On an individual level, materialism takes a lot of time and energy. Acquiring goods always uses effort and there may be better and more fulfilling ways to expend that effort. Materialism also does not seem to lead to greater life satisfaction or happiness. After basic needs are met, acquiring more objects has not been shown to make people any happier with their lives. But materialism doesn't just affect the individual while acquiring goods, it also affects people in the production of goods. Most people have jobs that involve producing goods, which means that for many people, their lives are filled with materialism. If less goods were produced, perhaps some of that time and attention could be turned to other pursuits, such as educational, philosophical, or artistic pursuits. This would allow more people the freedom to explore subjects of interest to them.

Materialism can also be addicting, and seriously do harm to an individual's life. When a person starts to pursue material objects to the detriment of other areas of life, they can lose out on building meaningful relationships with others, pursuing hobbies, and do harm to larger financial goals, such as buying a house or saving for retirement. It is very easy to become addicted to materialism in a society that encourages it constantly, so many people have been affected by this issue.

Now, many people would say that our entire modern economy is built around materialism and there is truth in that. But, it may be a good time to rethink how we live as humans and what we want to do with our limited lives. In the current world, stress is high, depression is high, and people struggle to find meaning and even happiness. It may be a good idea to try a different way and see if we can live better, more meaningful lives.

Materialism certainly consumes people's time and energy in modern life. It causes people to grind away at work and collecting items during leisure, while not making people ultimately happy. It is good to ask if there is a better way to live in which more people can find meaning and fulfillment in their lives, while also doing less damage to the world we live in.
