Everyone today is judged against others but expected to cooperate. Both students throughout their academic careers and employees in the workforce complete assignments in cooperation and competition with those around them. The example that can demonstate this is a group project. Although everyone is working together for a common goal of an accurate and informative result, everyone will inevidibly be judged on their own. Students get their own grades with some getting better scores than others and not all workers get raises at the same frequency. Even in a perseived cooperation setting, competition exists. True success however is better achieved through cooperation. 

Most often assignments begin with research and gaining an understanding of background information. In school this could be researching for a history project, or in the workplace watching LinkedIn learning video on how to use the required program. In any learning situation, variation exists in the specific information that is retained by the individuals of a group. Everyone thinks that slightly different points are the important ones and will therefor remember a unique set of concepts. With competition, the person with the largest number facts might be considered the winner, but they will not know everything there is to know about the topic. A group's cooperation will lead to a greater overall knowledge and a better, more through completed assignment.

In addition to what is retained by a group through research, cooperation also leads to better results due to varying interests of people. Those that are more interested in scientific concepts might be able to contribute with some statistics and importantly, understanding of what the numbers mean. On the other hand, those more interested in visual learning and expression will be better at explaining the designs and identifying patters. When all types of people can come together with their interests, the final product will be better off, in this case it would have meaningful individual numbers displayed in a communicative manner.

Although competition is frequently used as a method of assesing and comparing students and workers, sucess for everyone is better achieved through cooperation. You are shaped by your background and interests. The same differences which make us unique, give us our own set of skills. Coperation and teamwork allows us to showcase those, leveraging others in the areas we are lacking and providing us a rolemodel for self-improvement. In sole competition, this environment of fostering growth would not be possible. Success comes most easily when everyone is willing to help those around them as we all have something truely unique to offer.
