Celebrate materialism! It is only human nature in action. Wouldn't you agree? We can't live without it. Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Without materialism and the culture that surrounds it we would lose our identity as human beings. Even worse, we would not have anything to define our place in this world. Materialism should be celebrated. After all, humans would not have pulled themselves up out of the murky cave and progressed to the technological world that we have become today without it.

Human nature is bent on owning personal items. From caveman days until now, we have worked to aquire more and more in order to improve upon on our living situation. Many people say that materialism is detrimental to our very being. However, it is obvious that this is not true. Without materialism, our station in life would never improve. We would still be living in caves and scrouging for meals. Without materialism, humans would not have developed technologies to improve our lives. Without materialism, we would not have strived to improve our educational situation. We can not live fulfilled lives without materialism, regardless of what the haters say.

Many groups out there are against materialism. They state that materialistic attitudes develop people that are greedy and self-serving. Self-serving? How about rephrasing that to self-preservation. Striving for a roof over your head, clothes on your back, and a great pair of sneakers is self-preservation not self-service. These groups seem to have the word materialistic tied very tightly to the idea of greed. Instead, the word materialistic can have a positive definition. One that includes self-preservation and also self-care.

A materialistic attitude is just another way to define self-care. Spending money on items that help a person to be the best human they can possibly be, is not a bad thing. This type of materialism allows people to build self confidence and self branding. It allows people to develop and grow. How can that be a bad thing? It isn't. Participating in the global economy is a positive way to participate in the human race. 

The global economy encourages materialism and is materialistic by nature. The aquiring, spending, and saving of money makes the world go around. To be an active part of this world one must be materialistic. There are those people out there that talk about and even live the "simple life". They strip down their possesions to the absolute neccessities and do not engage in the world of commerce. Are these people truely happy? Many interviews, reveal that they are not happy. They miss being part of the global economy and feel a lot of stress and guilt if they do not follow their strict "simple life" guidelines. Simply entering back into the global economic society and accepting materialism as a fact of life can remove this stress and guilt immediatly. 

Materialism is a fundamental part of human nature. We can not live without it. You must agree that our world would not have progressed to this point if we had not been materialistic beings. Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. It is only human nature.
