Today, people are often fascinated and entertained easily with a nice smile, pretty pictures, or a cool advertisement. Often, they are quickly bought on an idea as opposed to the reality of something. That is, people are manipulated by how something is seen rather than how something really is. In other words, images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people. 

First of all, with the introduction and rapid success of social media platforms, advertisements and recommendations are spread rapidly and easily amongst the populations that are using them; this makes it easy to sell people on these false impressions or ideas. For example, with the huge success of the social media platform TikTok, minor celebrities, also known as influencers create content geared towards their audience. Oftentimes, these influencers are paid to create videos that are selling a certain object, such as makeup, books, technology, etc. These audiences fall into the trap of these advertisements without thinking too much on what is being sold to them; they trust these influencers explicitly and wholeheartedly. As long as the content created is entertaining and good to the person viewing them, they are sold on the idea and will spend their money on the thing that is being shown in these videos. Rather than think or evaluate deeply, they'd rather trust content that is being edited, deliberately manipulated and marketed towards them. 

Furthermore, it can be argued that this isn't the case and that people do care for what the reality is. For example, there have been countless cases of a celebrity or politican doing or partaking in some nefarious acts and it will be blasted all over the news, social media, etc. However, if one looks into what the audience and the population are saying, more often they will excuse this behavior because it does not align with what their initial impression of this person was. In other words, they allow or forgive things because of what they believed in previously, not considering the recent evidence or information that had come to light. In actuality, these impressions, false or not, are the most important things a person or object can have because people will continue to believe them, no matter what. 

Overall, yes, people believe too deeply on these images; they have too much of an effect on people. Once people have made up their minds on something, good or bad, it is unlikely that they change their minds or will look for more information the subject. 
