What makes someone happy? Can you achieve happiness doing just whatever you love, or is it the selflessness that one may showcase from helping others that truly makes someone happy? In this essay I will explore what it is, that helps us reach happiness.

Achieving happiness in life is arguably the main, or maybe even the only goal one can have. Happiness is an intangible concept but it is something that everyone has experienced and can understand. The special thing about happiness is that it does not follow any rules, what makes someone happy will not necessarily make another person happy aswell, but at the same time, just someone being happy can in fact make someone else happy too by itself. For these reasons I think there is no objective way to achieve happiness for any people, the only way it can be achieved is to find your own path to reach it. You have to live life and go along with the flow, and along the way recognise what it truly is that you enjoyed about it.
Many people claim it is impossible to reach true happiness unless you share that joy with others. In my personal opinion, while that may be true, it all boils down once again to everyone doing what they want to. In a strange way, even the act of helping others is inherently a selfish endeavor. When you really think about it, the only reason you do anything is because you want to. Sure it may not feel like it, for example when you say "I don't want to pay taxes", but in reality you do want to do it, because you know the alternative would be worse off for you, so you want to avoid that outcome for your own sake. This is the same with helping other, you do it because you want to help others, because it made you feel good and it made you feel happy, no one physically forced you to do any of these, you made the choice willingly.

In conclusion, finding happiness is a difficult task, a task that everyone has to figure out on their own, but overall I think happiness is more likely to come when you focus on yourself, doing what you want.
