Materialism has been a concept related to society as a whole since ancient times. Cultures have always had a sense of worth based off of material possessions, such as wealth or the status certain possessions can bring. So looking at modern society compared to past civilizations I would argue that we should not be too heavily criticized for being materialistic. This is mainly due to my belief that it is in our human nature as hunter-gathers to want to have items and belongings that bring us joy and also joy to others such as family and friends. I also believe that materials can be good and not just bad or items that make us lose our humanity.
 Of course others would argue that materialism is bad for society due to it making us less human or that we can not focus on what's really important in life such as true happiness that does not involve materials, but instead our heart and soul. I believe though that you can have a lot of good in materialism, all while being able to avoid most of the bad depending on who you want to be. If you want to be someone who is very vain and does not care about sharing materials with others (such as wealth), then you can be that person. Being that kind of person in my opinion is bad and makes you very open to criticism. The example I just gave though only details a certain minority of modern society, so why should we all be criticized for the actions of a few? 
  If you do not have any materials in your life than you are more than likely homeless and struggling immensly day to day to survive. That is a fate I wish for nobody and if we as a society overly criticized ourselves having materials, then one would think we would all just throw everything we own away and live on the roads and in the woods. That just does not make sense in terms of acheiving happiness, mainly because we need things like housing, food, hydration, and etc. to be able to survive and provide for others. So I do not believe we as a society should be criticized for being materialistic. If our ancestors were able to get our world to where it is today being materialistic, then I feel we are still going in the right direction, even if we have an abudance of materials. This is due to it not being about just the materials, but what the majority of our society does with the materials. So, in conclusion I believe modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. 
 

