I believe much like everything in our world we're always left to important decisions that must be answered like this. Is it too much or too little, is it evil or good? The truth is that realitly is seldom so simple. It's much of a grey area that constantly reminds us that life isn't something we can't categorize so easily.

I see that being materialistic has many advantages. It allows us to collect and aquire value not only in our personal possessions, but worth in the community. It allows the infrastructure of systems and government to regulate rules and create doctrines that govern how we'll run our society. Examples would be for whose wealth so shall own that they pay a penance or "tax" to the government so that the less fortunate may have benefits to services. Social services provided to the poor are a great example of the overly materialistic society (particularly very wealthy people) paying large taxes into our society so that the less fortunate have safety nets.

Now let's talk about the underside of things. The more dark and dangerous side of materialistic ideation. It can create unhealthy and unrealistic expectations in people and the pursuit of such can destroy not only their mental health, but their physical health. Case and point in the extreme would be someone like the people you see on television like Hoarders. You also have people who obesses far too much over things, even worthless in value and are left alone to their own devices to be crippled and enabled by their desires.

I personally feel that modern society in my own words isn't something you can simple judge as a whole. We're less of one being capable to be categorigized so easily and much more like a peatry dish of different germs. I understand that's a very disturbing and sick way to describe to the human race and it's definitely a humbling perspective if not humilation, but that's how I classify us. The diverse and multiple distinctions between us as a collective doesn't allow for anything so simple as judging the entire species under such simple ideals.

Humans for all intents and purposes are conquerers and destruction is simply in our nature. It's not about how much we need, simply that it'll never be enough. I think we've proven this not only in our scientific leaps of domination far above any other example non-homosapien, but even perceptually by our buildings and countries we've constructed.

I think the best way to describe us is that we're a cancer, not always malignant, but definitely hard to eradicate and persistent. We thrive and need to constantly spread and grow and our materalistic desires are just a reflection of that metaphor. 


