In life, there are two types of people. There are the people who focus on themselves and the people who focus on others. The people who focus on themselves work to achieve their own goals and happiness, ignoring what others say; while the people who focus on others put themselves last and put those around them first to ensure their happiness. They listen others and ignore themselves. In this essay, I will prove that those who choose to put themselves first and focus on themselves, are more likely to be happy.

Firstly, when you put yourself first, you know your goals and what makes you happy. When you put others before you, you are doing what makes them happy, and as such you are putting your personal feelings and goals last. By putting yourself first, the only thing you need to figure out is how you are going to meet your goal and make yourself happy. Only you know what makes you happy. Your parents, siblings, teachers or bosses have no idea. The only thing they know about you is what you choose to show the world. Only you know the real you.  

Secondly, when a person does the research to figure out what they need to do to achieve their goals, they are driven to achieve those goals. While working towards their goal, they are working for themselves and no one else. If they fail to achieve their goal, the only person they hurt is themselves. If they achieve their goal, they have the satisfaction of being able to say they worked hard and they did it. Whether its a small goal like buying a new outfit, or a larger goal like getting a higher paying job, the person who focuses on them can say with pride that they accomplished their goal and worked towards their own happiness. Those who work towards others happiness cannot say that.

Critics of this may say that putting the focus on others can make you happy as well. While this may be the case, people who actively put themselves last and put others before themselves are not in a position to reach their own goals or make themselves happy as they are not focusing on themselves. They may be in a situation where they are unable to put themselves first, such as being a family caregiver for example, where the caregivers wants and needs are always placed last while the person being cared for is always first, and while it may make the caregiver happy to see the person that they are caring for happy, is it really true happiness that the caregiver feels or is it job satisfaction? 

Additionally, putting the focus on others is actually a trauma response from unresolved trauma received through childhood wherein a person they were close to, either a parent or a sibling, left them behind for whatever reason.  The person who was left behind (may) feel as though if they do not focus on others happiness, that the person will leave them and as such they may feel compelled to focus on others to keep them from leaving and as such they choose to put other people above themselves instead of focusing on themselves.  

While happiness is felt in many different ways through many different things, it can be assumed that those who focus on themselves are more likely to be happy than those who do not focus on themselves as they know themselves best and just need to research and figure out what to do to realize their dreams and make themselves happy. Happiness varies from person to person, and what makes Jack happy may not make Jane happy, and vice versa. It is up to each individual person to decide for themselves who they want to focus on, and what they can do to reach that goal. 
