Materialism is a staple in our modern society, the owning of goods and spending money is how we show others our means and how we gain happiness for ourselves. Some people believe our society relies too much on this materialism and wish that we would move away from it. While others thrive on materialism, its how they define their own sense of being or its what people do for work, continuing the production and movement forward of materialism. But this reliance on materialism is hurting our society and we need to take a look at ourselves and our society to figure out how we can better define our sense of self and move away from materialism. 

Modern society should be critized for how materialistic it is. It teaches the wrong values to our children and makes us have a skewed idea of what is important in life. So many people strive to always have the newest phone, the clothes that are currently in style etc. But this means that we are constantly throwing away perfectly good materialistic goods. Take the case of the iPhone, a new iPhone is released approximately every one or two years, but phones themselves last at least five years if not more - if the user is careful. Which means that in say the last ten years many people have acquired eight to ten new phones when two phones could have easily sufficed. Those old phones just get thrown out and become waste. Or worse, if not properly disposed, can become a security risk as there is a lot of data stored on phones of a personal nature. We already have a huge pollution problem just from food and other required goods but now old phones are filling up our landfills or even being dropped in the ocean. 
The same applies to clothes. Many people buy new clothes every year to ensure that they are in with the current trends. But clothes can last a very long time. Many people still have clothes from ten to twenty years ago and depending on the clothes some are still in perfectly good condition. Clothes can often be easily fixed to be returned to a useful state. But instead people throw out clothes to replace them with the newest style. Many materials used for clothes cannot be recycled and so again are going to waste. Buying even just one new pair of jeans every year when one pair of jeans can easily last ten years is creating ten times the waste.
This focus on materialism shows the younger generations this is the way forward. Many new parents receive so many clothes that they have enough clothes to have their baby wear a different outfit for the whole first year of their lives. That is too much and it starts the child on the road to materialism early. And it just progresses, with each generation the children want and want. And many parents give in and give and give. And it's in the media, the targetted commercials designed to entice children to ask their parents for something new. The TV shows that show the characters in new outfits all the time creating more want for children to look like their favorite characters. And the TV companies and the goods companies just continue to profit on this want. Children have forgotten there can be fun and happiness found in nature and in time with friends. But time with friends just creates more want as they see friends with the newest technology and the child has to keep up or be left behind. 
In both cases of iPhones and clothes, as well as many other materials, companies continue producing them because there is still a demand and thus a profit in producing new types of goods each year. But this is really just perpetuating the problem. The fashion shows each year to promote new trends leaves businesses rushing to create items to sell. It is all driven by profit. If instead we stopped having new fashions each year, the companies could continue producing their usual products and people would still buy them. Maybe in less quantities if there wasnt such a focus on materialism but they would still make money. 
And it would stop the practice of many clothing companies in particular producing their clothes in countries where the labor force is cheaper. Many clothes are made in India, Bangladesh or Central American countries for a fraction of what they are sold for. This creates a cycle of explotation that is never going to stop until we as a society stop this reliance on materialistic goods. One might argue that this means loss of jobs for many people in some of these developing countries. But by getting rid of these terrible jobs, these countries can work to create better jobs for their people. (or perhaps even better, the companies that have been exploiting them can help create better jobs for them that the company can still profit off of just in a more ethical way with probably even more high quality goods).
One might argue that materialism is a source of happiness for some people and that people enjoy going shopping for new clothes, or trying out the latest technology etc. And although society should be critized for this practice it does not need to stop entirely. It just needs to slow down. People can still buy the latest thing just every few years not every few months so they still get that sense of happiness still get to have their material wealth but at a slower pace in a more sustainable way. 

Our society thrives on materialism, more and more and better and better goods are produced that then allow consumers to keep buying and buying. But our society has fallen too much into this cycle and it moves too fast, as a society we need to take a step back and evaluate that we are causing more harm than good in continuing the buy and sell cycle. We need to find a way to slow the cycle and take a look at our environment. Take a look at the impact all these goods are having on the world and finding a way to find happiness in ways other than materialism. We are hurting the environment and we are teaching our children the wrong values. Modern soceity thrives on materialism but it shouldn't, it should be just a part of who we are.
