Society is ever evolving and ever devolving. On the one hand, humankind has made astronomical strides in every discipline of science, enabling us to reach heights unthinkable only decades prior. On the other hand, humankind has imploded on itself, becoming reliant on constant ego-stroking via social media and material possessions that imply status. Instead of realizing our true potential and capabilities as human beings, we have become numb to the world and universe around us as social media and materialism truly dictate our happiness and purpose in life, and YES, for that reason, our society should be criticized.

The abuse of social media and materialism go hand-in-hand with one another. We have had our attention spans shrunk to mere minutes, even seconds at a time. The resitance of temptation is no longer a skill that we possess in today's society. Whenever we want something, we can have it, both literally and fiugratively, in our finger tips in seconds. This mindset has been mirrored in our materialistic inclinations as well. Look at the cell phone. Each and every year, people flock to Apple Stores across the United States in September to get their hands on the latest and greatest smartphone, despite having access to one that has 98% of the capability of the one they're about to drop another grand on. We are too worried about things becoming obsolete that it prevents us to be able to enjoy those massive leaps that got us to where we are today in the first place. Look at video game consoles, cars, televisions, etc. It's all the same crap year after year, and yet WE create the demand for this "progress" and updated "status" in our heads. THAT, is materialism.

I in no way shape or form am trying to suggest that my opinion is the ultimate one. In fact, I am the same person to argue that "we only live once," and that we should do what makes us happy in life. And you know what? If that iPhone 14 Pro makes you happier than your iPhone 13 does, then do it. If you want to buy the $45,000 compact SUV from Toyota, instead of the $34,000 one from Hyundai that shares the same features and near identical craftsmanship, then fucking do it. Because we have the right to do so. We have received the gift of life from whatever greater power you believe in (or don't believe in). So live the hell out of that life. But at the same time, one can't argue that my criticims aren't fair or valid.

Thank you for taking the time and reading my piece. And to the researchers, thank you for giving me the space to share. It's frustrating being a 28 year old in today's world. I'm so hungry to find that real joy and passion in life, and it sucks that my progress in doing just that is put to a halt by the very society that I'm confined to. 

Fin.
