The world is full of images.  They are print, media, sound, and virtual.  They come through all devices and are generated in less than seconds and sent out to the world.  What kind of effect are these images having on people?  How are we diferent than we were 10 or even 100 years ago?  My thesis is that we are different and that images and impressions provide a positive contribution to our sociey and our existance.  Without them we would just be animals toiling in the world until we die.  They are unique to our species and I do not see many other animal or life for groups that have the same things. I do not see fish or wildlife recording themsleves with the devies they invited over many years. 
I would argue that we are no different than we were 100 years ago and that these images and impressions are not have a negative effect on the human race.  They no dobut disengage ourselves from life but do we really need to be engaged with life 24 hours like we probably were 100 or 200 years ago.   Back then,  we had to toil.  We had to plow, we had to make sure we had food to provide our family.  There was no lights at night and no air to keep us up.  We went to bed early and got up at the crack of dawn to toil some more.  Not sure if that is a life anyone wants to return to even if we are addicted to images and impressions.  When you are so sick from strep throat that you cannot leave your bed you are in much worse shape than having to many images and impressions. 
I also think we are better at judging authority and pointing out bad things due to the number of images that we get.  If something bad happens with cops or military we are seeing that in real time and the people cannot hide from it.  So  I think we are much better for having all these image and impressions.  
The counter argument does not make much sense to me unless you are one of those folks that wants to hide truth from everyone.   I do not think that is a good idea or a good way to approach things.  You need to leave things out in the open and allow for people to questoin reality and question what is going on.  Otherwise we are back as we were 200 years ago in the dark and dying of dysentary. I also think we do run the risk that we might as the great Roger Waters sung about "Amuse ourselves to death" but is that really a bad way to get extincit.  To much amusement?  I think that is a fine way to wrap this up.   We will always have our images and impressions.  Humans thrive on that.  Images stimulate our most animal urges and help to allow us to cleanse those without real time interaction.   I think that is important.  As for pulic figures, were they really that great to begin with.  At least we have a good way of keeping up with them.  So in conclusion I do not think that images and impressions have a to much effect on people.  I think they are a positive thing and add to the human existance. I think they are our legacy as a species and have always been (see art and how it has been around for so many years).  It is the measurement of civilization. It is the gaugue upon which we examine our past.  They are what is left after life has gone by and passed on.  
