There is no rhyme or reason to finding happiness as everyone must find their own path but more seem to find happiness or self worth by giving and caring about others.

This is the story of how twin sisters found their happiness in very different ways. Twin sisters Elaine and Betty grew up in the same house and same neighborhood for their entire lives. Elaine enjoyed school and working hard for herself and others. Betty enjoyed school but preferred to earn money for herself so that she could buy the latest records. makeup and outfits thereby being the trendy girl in school. Each sister found happiness in how they chose to act in life.

Elaine started an afterschool study hall for those students that needed an extra nudge or understanding of what they were being taught. She encouraged others to volunteer so that many areas of school and life studies were covered. She enjoyed herself and made sure others had a good time and tried to make all feel welcome. Betty would never come to the afterschool study hall as that took away time from her afterschool job at the malt shop. There she could show off her new make up and outfits to all her friends and people at the malt shop which made her happy. Each girl had found happiness. One through caring for others with the other one through caring for herself.

Elaine helped others by increasing their image of self-worth and accepting them as they were at both the afterschool study hall and on the town streets. Betty increased her own self-worth while decreasing the self-worth of those she saw at work and on the town streets because of  her actions toward them as being better than they were.  The element of happiness was different for each twin sister. Most people are helping and caring like Elaine and will live a happy existence. People that are similar to Betty might be happy but could later find out something is missing in their life and become like Elaine to be better caring individuals.

Sometimes a kind word or action toward someone feeling low due to difficulties at school or life is all that is needed to become an Elaine. Although some go through life being a Betty whose only interest is themselves and are extremely happy. 


