Images and impressions have too much an effect on many people in our society.  People seem to have forgotten how to question everything, or for that matter, anything.  They no longer think for themselves and instead allow themselves to believe what is flashed on the screen in front of them.  It is far easier to believe this information than it is to look it up to see if it is true or not.  The question is, why not take the extra minute to find out?

From advertising to memes in social media, most Americans can be lead to believe anything in about 10 to 30 seconds repeated over the course of a month at least 3 times a day.  (these statistics have been made up from my own brain, much like the garbage on the internet is made up by other people.)  But here is the thing, our lives are so complicated. With more and more people in the lower socioeconomic brackets, life is getting harder.  It is not easy to be poor in the is country and there is a lot to navigate.  Where or how to get food, which bills don't have to be paid this month, is transportation available for the kids to sign up for school choice to get a better education, and so much more. It makes sense that people choose not to spend the time look up information. 

One might ask if this is the fault of the educational system.  It may be, however one would need to have time to look up information to see if it is true.  This essay, has guidelines, that dictate using the imagination to formulate what may or may not be true and then spewing it forth upon the page. Some of us are taught, at a young age by our families because the schools never do, such things as how to question things.  For example, when I was young and idealistic, I would often debate with my father.  His favorite question to me was, "What is your source?".  Interestingly as we both aged and he is now a senior and I am middle aged, when we debate now, it is I who is asking him.  He spews forth a lot of garbage since retiring, first to Delaware and then moving to Florida.  I don't know if it is the people around him or the crap he sees but he stopped considering the source or even paying attention to where the information in his head came from.  But I know he has much more time to spend on the internet than ever before. 

Of course those putting the information out there are hoping no one will look behind the proverbial curtain. Rungs 1 through 4 on the socioeconomic ladder are being occupied by more and more people and rungs 9 and 10 by less and less. It is extremely disturbing the concentration of wealth at the top. Advertising companies depend on consumers seeing the appealing packaging and not ever reading the nurtritional label or even looking that the size of the package has shrunk while the price has increased.  Policticians are relying on the fact that their constituants' lives are way too complicated with figuring out if they can even vote and where did the voting place move to, that they won't bother with the facts about the positions taken by those politicians who are making their lives more complicated and confusing. 

This is the dumbing down of society.  Making life itself complicated and exhausting will allow politicians and corporations to guide people to do and buy what they dictate.  


