What we see is what we believe to be the gospel truth.  Images distort how we view people.  Unfortunately in today's world reality is a perception of what we believe is absolute truth.  This sentiment is displayed countless times in the world wide web when people are getting catfished time and time again.  We see an image of a cute person and assume that by having virtual conversations with this person that they are exactly who they say they are.  They make us feel better about ourselves and we presume we are in this loving wonderful relationship with the image on social media, but in reality it is all based on lies.  The person may not be the same sex, age or body style that they portray online, they look completely different than their pictures because it is a picture of somebody else entirely. Not only is the picture a fake but the person and relationship is all false and pretentious.

Contrary to this theory is that a picture tells a thousand words.  Of course a beautiful picture is a thousand words of  pure poetic awesomesauce.  What we see is what we get.  Image is everything and the better looking than of course the better quality something or someone is, this better quality makes it more priceless and luxurious so of course it is more valuable.  People have come to believe this from the time they were born, they completely forget about the age old saying that you shouldn't judge a book by it's cover or that beauty is only skin deep.

In conclusion, just because something looks good, doesn't mean that it tastes good or is not rotten to the core.  People should not trust that the image somebody portrays online is the favorable person they claim to be.  There is a whole show on MTV devoted to individuals getting Catfished because they believed the colorful packagage online and devoted their life and even finances to somebody who is not real.  Be careful and wary about something looking to pretty to be true, you might find it is ugly to the bone.   I beleieve that images and impressions do have a negative effect on people and how they see the world.
