Success can mean many different things to different people. To me, success is classified by how the individual personally feels about the things that they have accomplished. Many of the most successful artists, philosophers and scientists were not seen as the champions they are today, and during their era were little more than street urchins, village drunks and the fringe of society. Success is relative, but one thing is for certain, and that is that fostering competition is a sure way to squash the idea of widespread success in our society. 

Competition in business has been around since the concept of selling goods and services has exsited. If Unga sells an extra rock for the same amount of leaves, then why would Bunga spend his leaves at Chunga's rock stand? What this mentality creates is a situation in which Chunga will not be able to support himself or his family. It also allows Unga to sell rocks of whatever quality he wishes, as he has the reputation for the cheapest rocks in the cave, and everyone even forgot that Unga sold rocks. The final result is that the whole cave has mediocre rocks, Unga is unofficially the king of the cave as he has more leaves and is the one with all the rocks, and they all end up essentially in chains to Unga, forced to abide by his every wish.

As silly as a comparison as that was, I hope I have gotten the point across that competition is not in the best interest for society as a whole. Had unga and Bunga collaborated, decided a fair price for them to sell their rocks of various qualities and spread the wealth through the whole cave, then everyone would have had the chance to be financially stable and have the rocks they needed. Some may argue that this is not how the real world functions, and to that I say, why can't it? What exactly is keeping us in this box created by late-stage capitalism? We have been indoctrinated to be toxically competitive and shun those who don't have the same means to climb the societal ladder. This is not a healthy mindset to have, and is very narcissistic. All humans deserve a chance to get to the same destination, or whatever destination it is they wish to make it to, regardless of where their starting location is.

Although the world at large is becoming a truely different and increasingly scarier place than it once was, one thing that is important to keep is your humanity. Help your fellow humans wherever you can. Work together to reach not only your goals, but the goals that you and your peers and community share. Try to understand eachother, and have sympathy, as life is strange, and nobody truely knows what someone else is going through.

