Images and impressions can have a significant impact on how people perceive items and can help them to determine if they want to purchase a product or an item.  One part of marketing is to use a celebrity or politician in advertisements to persuade an audience to want to purchase the items they company is trying to sell or push on everyone.  Another is to enhance colors of products.  Most people would describe this type of marketing as false advertising.  In a way they are correct.  Marketing companies will enhance pictures or images of product by making them more colorful and pleasing to the eyes.  

A lot of restaurants will use this type of "false advertising" in their menus or when they are trying to advertise their food.  When they make the food look more colorful, it makes people think that they will be getting fresh food or something very tasty.  I have noticed that a lot of fast food restaurants will do this in their advertisments.  The food that you order and receive never looks like the food on their menus, in their paper ads or on their television commercials.  

Another way products are pushed onto the consumers is to use celebrities or public figures.  A lot of these people have many followers, so if a company pays the celebrity or public figure to push their product, the company knows that it's money well spent.  The followers will seek out the product and most will try it just because someone they admire is representing the product.

Our brains are programed to seek out things that make us feel happy, better, worthwhile, and fun.  By amping up the colors or by selecting someone we admire, it will make us want to try out the product.  Some people cannot be fooled by this type of false advertisements, but most consumers will fall for this and make the purchase.

Some may argue that making products more colorful or more appealing is not false advertising.  Some may say that it is normal for this to occur.  Some don't see it as being deceiving.  People may need this type of help when deciding on which purchase to make or what to have for dinner.  They may not realize they are being manipulated into buying a product.  That's okay though.  Everyone can't make decisions on their own and may need this type of "push" to make daily decisions.  

I know that companies use this type of marketing to push products and I know to not expect to get what I see in an advertisement.  So even though it bothers me to know that businesses and companies are manipulating consumers through this type of advertising, it's pretty much status quo and expected.  Especially now when consumers aren't spending as much money as they used to spend.



