In this world, it's hard to get by. It seems that everything we do is likely to be compared to a competition. From who gets the next promotion, to who gets the best car, all that we do is compared competitively. On the other hard, there is no sucessful society without coooperation. Whether that is your job, or making sure everyone is taken care of. Everything in life is based off of these 2 things. Which is more important though? Honestly, the answer the answer will probably change on who you ask, and what the context behind why you're asking is. To me personally, I think that cooperation is the key to long term success. While I still believe a healthy dose is competition is good for some things, because it can keep you motivated and focused on a goal, cooperation is key. 

Lets look at a baby. A baby is born, and is unable to do anything for themselves. They eventually learn to do everything, however, most things are taught to them. They are helped. It's a cooperative effort. They learn to eat, but generally that's because you have helped teach them to use a spoon, or fork, or how to use their hands. You demonstrate and teach. Then they learn to walk. Generally again, because you've held their hands and helped them stand and shown them how to move their legs. They get older and learn to read, that's because you've worked together and taught and learned. Now let's look at a job. How about a manager? A manager isn't just born. The chances of starting your first job as a manager is essentially nil. How do you get there? Generally because you've worked hard, and with working hard, you've had a group of people working with you and cooperating towards the common goal to achieve success. A manager isn't made without cooperation from their team. In fact, a manager without a team is just pointless and ineffective. 

I was promoted a few years back to a position that was only ever held by people 2 decades older than myself. I didn't get this position by myself. I had a great team who wanted me to succeed. A team who saw that we thrived under my direction.  A team that cooperated and  helped each other. I got promoted solely on the cooperation of my team, who helped me and taught me many things along the way. Without them, I never would have got the opportunity to succeed like I have. It was a team effort, and our department is now running more efficiently than it ever has. We hit goals we never have. This wasn't due to competition, it's due to cooperation. 

There is a manager on another team at my workplace who has used competition for everything in their life. They have got themselves into serious debt due to their competitive nature. From needing to have a house they can barely afford just to show up their siblings, to driving a car that they had repossessed last summer because they wanted to look better off and have the best car in the parking lot. They trampled over a lot of people to get their position, and it didn't make them any friends. They got the position they wanted, so their goal worked, but their department doesn't run like it used to, because they have upset so many people along the way that lack of cooperation they get from their co-workers is terrible. Nobody wants to go out of their way for them, and nobody wants to help someone who has shown little regard for their feelings. If they had a different attitude, and showed less competitiveness, they would have the same support that I've had. Now, they are suffering in many aspects because their life is just one big competition. 

In conclusion, I believe that there are so many things that could be accomplished in life with more cooperation and a bit less competition. I stand firm that both have their uses, and everyone needs some competition in their life. But at what cost is competition better than cooperation? In my experience, the cost isn't worth the end result and is far more damaging. Imagine if everyone cooperated with each other what could happen? The current environmental issues could be worked on a serious way. People wouldn't be starving, losing their homes, jobs. Homelessness could be a lot less of an issue. We could help those strugging with addiction and mental health issues. Politics would be completely different. It wouldn't be a massive competition, it would be people working together for the greater good of the world. If people started being less concerned with "me, me, me" and came together, cooperation could fix a lot of issues. 
