The world is full of deception that people lap up like cats from a milk bowl.  You see it every day, but does anyone really see it?  The question is the heart of any advertising firm's marketing campaign, whether it be for a politician or a company.  We are bombarded with such imagery all the time and alas, even the most clever among us still fall for it's charms.

Think about your average advertisement for a burger joint for instance.  They show this wonderful slice of heaven in a bun with all it's glory.  It is perfectly designed to have the most impact on the audience.  The tomato is red and juicy, the cheese drips off the sizzling burger, etc.   It makes you want to drool.  And that is the point.  But when you get there, you buy the sandwich and it's usually a big mess of all of it's elements, hardly the picture perfect culinary treat you saw in the ad.

And we fall for it.  Portraying such an image works well.  People buy products they don't need all the time because it looked good in an advertisement.  They listen to their favorite celebrities and see they are selling or wearing.  They wear fashion that looked good on the model, but doesn't look good on their fans.  The whole thing about everybody wants to be a rock star completely ignores the deep emotional turmoil that rockstars seem to be in.  If that lifestyle was so great, why do they get into drugs to cope?

The reason is people ignore the darkside of the fantasy that is being shown.  For a burger, it doesn't matter, but in politics it can be dangerous.  Charismatic leaders can cause all sorts of chaos because they know that their fans will go along with it no matter what.  Take Donald Trump.  Whether you like him or hate him, one has to admit that he has a unique talent for drawing people into the fold through what he portrays as his lifestyle, even though it's all bull.  Barnum said there was a sucker born every minute and people believe what he says because they have this idea that he is this major businessman who went bankrupt numerous times, a strong man who doesn't exercise, etc.  And yet people have this idea that he is a god because he's good at manipulation.  People soak it in because they want to be him.  Not him, but the vision of what he pretends to be.  And that is dangerous.  Just look at the January 6th riot.  

Is there a solution to the problem?  Freedom of speech allows for people to say and do a lot that is never called out.  Every once in awhile there is a company gets fined for false advertising, but it's rare.  The only way people can fight back is to pay attention to all sides and unfortunately, most won't.  It's too difficult for many to even fact check a politician, much less analyze what is really being said and whether the image being portrayed is a true one.  And as long as that is the case, there will always be impressions and images that have an effect on people.

