I find that happiness can be a fairly broad definition; one persons "happy" could be another persons "depressed." But for the most part, in general, I think it's possible to focus on personal goals AND still help with the happiness of others. Like everything, with enough balance, I find it fairly easy to achieve these goals, particularlly if one of my goals happens to be the happiness of someone else.

I think that in order to really help others, you have to be willing (and able) to help yourself. If you can do things that make you happy, it's going to likely affect your outlook on the rest of the world. I've noticed that people who are sad most of the time aren't really doing much to get themselves out of that situation. There's no "magic bullet" or easy solution to this - everyone is different. But for myself, if I can manage to do something that pleases me or increases my own happiness, I feel that I would be much more likely to help someone else achieve this, and much more likely to be successful at it as well.

For example, I am under no real obligation to watch over some friends of mine that were shared by my late fiance. But because of what I learned from her helping and giving nature, I feel better about myself if it turns out I can help this couple, even if it's something small like a ride to the store, or lending an ear when they have a problem. I know from my own experience that I feel better after helping someone out, as it sets me up to do the next nice thing for myself, which again turns to being willing and ready to help someone else out. It's like a nice little cycle of helping ones' self while still looking out for others. I can honestly say that I don't know that I would be like this at this time in my life if I hadn't met and experienced this with my late fiance.

I think that in life, the cliches are usually such because while they may in fact be cliches, they also usually turn out to be true: you can increase your own happiness by increasing the happiness of someone else. But that doesn't mean you ignore taking care of your own happiness, independent of others. It just means that if you are caring enough to make sure your own needs are met, then you can truly help others that need it as well. 
