I believe that excessive materialism is something to be shunned, however, I beleive that materialism, in and of itself, isn't detrimental to a person or their way of life. All people need material items in order to not only live a good and happy life, but to at the very least, survive. Take for example a home, a roof over one's head. A home is a good example of a material possesion. A home is needed to keep oneself safe from the elements such as cold and heat. In a home, one also needs items such as a place to sit, a place to sleep and material possesions to cook and eat their food. 

Although cramming one's home with too many possesions can create problems with cleanliness and actual safety, having enough items to feed and clothe oneself is considered a good and responsible thing. Some may take issue with having luxury or items that are overpriced, which can cause problems, and some may take issue with having far too many unnecessary items, which is also problematic, but having at least enough is something that almost all people will strive for an will find are necessary. 

There is also something to be said for having enough items to help one's family and/or neighbors. Having enough so that you can give to others is also of great value to both those who benefit from the items and those who can give of a generous heart and lend a helping hand when needed. Having too many items can easily create problems, but a blanket statement that materialism is bad isn't taking into account that a bare minimum is needed and is very helpful to those who want to live at least somewhat comfortably and stay safe, healthy, warm and fed.

Having the minimum items needed allows people to thrive in other ways that can be of great benefit to society. Rather than spending and using all their time to worry about survival, people can create and solve problems in their communities both small and large. There will always be problems and issues that need to be solved, and having the time and energy to devote to solving these problems is vital. No one could argue that people taking care of people is something to be critisized. Only in having our basic needs met, through material goods, allows people to solve the bigger and more pressing problems in their communities.
