Competition versus cooperation which is better? They both have pros and cons depending on the circumstances. If someone works in a setting where they like their coworkers or their class mates working together might be better than a competition. If someone does not like their coworkers or does not like there class mates then a competition might be better. Working together means you can brainstorm and come up with more ideas. Some people are good at thinking of an idea but others might be better at helping work out the idea, not coming up with the initial idea. Competitions can be good as well, some people work better alone. Competitions usually spark creativity and have people working hard espcially if they want to beat someone who they do not like. 

I believe that cooperation is always better. Working together means that there will be more brain power and ideas to work with. The more brains you have the more solutions you will get. Working together you can talk things out and run through more scenario. More people working together can think of ways to solve a problem, than just one person alone. This means that they can talk through it together instead of with themselves. If you have more brains to think about the way things can go wrong then you can have more solutions to each problem that might arise. I think healthy competition is good but a lot of the time competition is not healthy. Some people will just be obsessed with winning not with actually solving the problem. Their might be a prize that they want to win or a person that they want to beat. That might drive them more than just actually working on solving the problem that is at hand. They might come up with solution but it will probably not be the best solution. 

Having more than one brain to solve a problem is always going to be better than one brain. Cooperation is always going to win over competition when you are solving a problem. This way you can think of all the different scenarios and solve them all. More brain power is always good. A freindly competition can be fun but solving problems is better done with cooperation. People who like to work alone would prefer a competition though. Working together and using everyones brain power is the best way to come up with solutions and solve problems. 

