Survival of the fittest. It's a dog-eat-dog world. The weak are meat. These sayings all seem to suggest that competition is the way to get through life, and the way of the world. But is that true? And if that is indeed the way of nature, do we have to follow it? I would tend to believe that cooperation, and not competition, is really the way to go.

Cooperation. It just sounds easier. It sounds less stressful. With cooperation we can work together with others to achieve goals. What's so great about that? It enables us to not have everything on our own shoulders, which can be a burden. It enables us to concentrate on our strengths, and work on improving our strengths. With the areas that we are less skilled at, our weaknesses, we can team with someone else who excels in that area. In simplistic terms, lets look at this as I'm trying to drive to a destination in a city on a scavenger hunt. I am a great driver, but I have an awful sense of direction. I can team with someone else who is a horrible driver but is great at directions. Together we can accomplish our goal, whereas separately we might not. And working together like that, cooperatively, can be great for relationships and creating and enriching friendships. In addition, not dealing with the contanst push of competition and disappointment from failure is probably much better for our mental health.

A case can be made for competition pushing people harder and making them excel in ways they didn't they could. But I would tend to think that's not the way that the ordinary person wants to live their way. An Olympic athlete, sure. But not a regular person walking down the streets. The normal person probably wants to be good enough at things but not become obsessed with being the best at them.

There is a time and a place for competition. When applying for a new position at work or playing basketball with your friends competition is likely going to naturally occur. In every day life, however, I feel we need to embrace cooperation. It's good for our spirit, our relationships and our mental health.
