Images and impressions are a part of daily life.  Every single person sees them in the most mundane parts of life from a tv commercial, a billboard, a newspaper, a magazine, or even a local newscast.  Images and impressions have both negative and positive effects on people depending on their intent.  People and businesses will continue to utilize images and impressions to make their points and advance whatever their agenda is.

Images and impressions tend to have too much effect on people.  Images and impressions impact people more than just the actual person or business in front of them.  Images and impressions are a powerful tool used in the sense that they will have an effect on the viewer.

As mentioned in the prompt, the image and impression of product packaging is  quite high.  For example, place two hypothetical food products side by side.  One if name brand, and the other is generic.  Typically, the name brand is going to have their specific imaging on it while the generic will have less branding.  Most people tend to gravitate towards the name brand as there is an image associated with it that they already know.  When people gravitate towards the name brand, often times the generic product, which is typically just as good and sometimes better, is left behind.  The power behind the images and impressions of a logo spur people to choose that product.

A second example about images and impressions having way to much effect on people is the recent presidency of Donald Trump.  He projected an image and impression of bravado through grand gestures and wild speech.  His supporters took that at face value and disregarded that he had no previous political experience, no set agenda, and not much desire to actually better the country.  This was a powerful example where people just accepted him as their candidate without actually digging deeper to see if he was even appropriate for the job.

Some people would argue that images and impressions are not that important and do not have that much effect on people.  They will point to the successes of businesses and people on their own merits.  Someone could bring up business numbers from a year of a brand name product vs a generic and run the numbers and see that both more than likely did fairly well.  Someone could also point out that Donald Trump did achieve some things he set out to do and not based solely on his popularity.  People will always have disagreements about issues, but that is part of the glory of living in the US.  People are allowed to agree and to disagree.

Images and impressions tend to subconcisously persuade a person to go one way or another when making decisions in their lives.  Whether that's purchasing a specific product, backing a business, or supporting a candidate, people will always be effected by the images and impressions put out there.  The images and impressions can be positive or negative, but they do still effect the every day person.  They can inflate someone's view of something while blinding their view on something else, and that's why they tend to have way more impact and effect on people than having no images or impressions readily available.
