One could make the argument that those who promote competition as the only way to achieve success do so because that is how they were socialized and taught from an early age.  Some individuals are raised to believe that winning is everything and if you are good enough and work hard enough and push yourself you dont need anyone else's help to achieve your goals.  I know because I was raised this way: be the best, be the smartest, crush your competition and all good things will come to you.

This worked well for me in adolescence: learning to read before everybody else, getting the opportunity to do fun things in school because you finished your work before everyone else, getting out of gym period because because the lady from the school district was here to test your IQ, knowing the answer before the other kid could get to the board and work it out in front of everyone, the praise from teachers, family and friends about how smart I was and how I was going to be a great astronaut or doctor or scientist.    

It also worked well becasue I was incredibly shy so being able to learn and do on my own without having to work with others was just fine with me!  And though I was embarrassed by the shower of accolades and praise at times, success and being the best was the currency of love and affection in my house.  All I had to do was look at my older sister, who did not do as well in school, did not compete, did not win and she was left to her own devices, a lost cause.  I did not want that to be me.  

Fast forward 20 years and I am in a corporate environment.  I get promoted quickly because of my individual performance in my entry level position; then I get promoted again due to my continued contributions and my ability to handle a large and ever-increasing workload..."give it to her - she can handle it".  Sure my Director would tell me to reach out to others, ask for help, ask for input..."You need to build concensus, you cannot continue to operate in a vacuum, that is not how this world works" she would say.  But I didnt know how to do that.  And I didnt know how to tell her I didnt know how to do that.  So I ignored it.  And I failed.

I dropped the ball.  ME!  I completely screwed up a crucial project because I did not how to cooperate with others.  Luckily I failed at the first phase BEFORE it went to C-level executives and thankfully I then had the chance to go back, try again and LEARN how to cooperate with others, collaborate, use other people's expertise because guess what?  I dont know everything.  And I cant do everything alone.  That was a tough lesson to learn, that indeed cooperation is much more likely to produce significant, lasting accomplishments.  I wish I had learned it earlier in life.  


