Happiness is a phrase that has different meanings to different people. It is an elusive dream to some, a goal of the future, whereas for others it may be in the simple things found within their day-to-day. Where does it come from? The heart, the soul -- accomplishment or dream? Does it come from within or from the interactons of others? Ultimately, people should focus on the happiness of themselves first through the success of their own personal goals before they focus on the emotions of others.

It sounds incredibly selfish to want to create one's own happiness before that of others, yet we are the only ones who can define what it means to ourselves. If a person cannot understand what happiness is, and be able to employ cognitive logic to what it can mean to others, then there cannot be success when striving for the happiness of others. 

Altruistic behavior has been uplifted in most societies: it is honorable to put others before the self, to create community and be rewarded by a sense of pleasure of doing a good thing. It has become expected. Do those acts truly create happiness, or just a fleeting moral responsibility? When someone assists in building a home for someone in need, does that happiness sustain them? No. They find another task to bring that feeling back. Then another, and another, and another. It might be a fix, a wonderful feeling, but it's fleeting. Insubstantial.

The fact of the matter is that by going through the actions of performing those good deeds, they are in actuality meeting their own internal goals in the first place. The happiness they feel from their accomplishments in assisting others is tied into their own internal desires.  If people only found happiness through the happiness of others, then it becomes less of a desire and more of a need. The chase toward purpose and that elated feeling is always something to be gained or earned in the future instead of being something that is conjured and created and cherished.

There is no shame in wanting to feel good, to feel happy, through the act of bringing happiness to others. It is, however, important to recognize that it is what happens, and to accept it as a form of making oneself happy. These small steps are what move people forward individually, and these small goals will only emphasize the self-confidence of one who has recognized happiness within themselves, to be able to then share it with others along the way. True happiness must exist from within first before it can be shared effectively and make the contributor feel it for what it truly can be.
