We all like to aquire things, i love to aquire things and do not believe that it is a bad thing to want. It can be a great motivator to work extra hard so that i may have the things i want. I would never hurt anyone or anything that may help to get to this goal.
There are some that are very selfish in their ways that they may get the materials theyre longing. The can go as far as cheating and stealing to get their way of aquiring things. They may have too much of things that are unnessary because there are others who have nothing. Its best to voluntering give to others to help them with a better way of life. No need to have four cars when your neighbor has none and you come and go and pass them by as they walk. Just being gracouis enough to provide them a ride when needed may help to justify as long as you can give back to others.
I like to collect thing, certain things that make me happy and mean nothing to someone else. Makes me feel furfilled to look around and see the things that make me content in my lifestyle. Never enough plants! There are so many species of plants that provide different things. I find it so rewarding and satisfing to give to the birdss and the bees. My neighbors admire my garden, but they are so easily to reproduce and never stop multipling that i give to all my neighbors to start gardens of their own. It is contagous and a great hobby.
Plants these days cost so much money, but once you get your garden going you really never have to buy more unless its a new type or color or varitys. Then comes the pots!!! i love buying pots!!! ill usual go second hand as the older they are the better the patina and nicer the enviroment and it helps recycle . Share, share and share some more. It makes the world a better place.
So everything we have in life that we purchase with our money should last and be meaningful. If not, pass it on . . .
Never be selfish, its just not a nice way to be.  
All in all, its okay to own things but in the long run it is not the true root of happiness. Hapiness and a furfil life is not through material things. My motto is: the best things in life are free.
So the money ive spend on gardening is money well spent. It just keeps growing and multiplying and it allows you to give and open other eyes as to nature which is the finest thing in life. 
If you give flowers to someone who has nothing it may end up being the most important thing you ever could give them. They could take them, root them and plant them and they will continue to grow and enrich your connection with the true life force.
So it comes down to where the materials you aquire will bring meaning and connections.
