Finding happiness is a goal that we all are constantly chasing. Whether it is on a large scale or small, we are searching for something that makes us happy. Along with the constant pursuit of happiness, we all have goals we'd like to achieve, as well. I believe there are two different types of people in this world. There are those who find happiness in chasing their own goals and aspirations, while others find their true happiness in making others happy.
The first type of person focuses on their own goals in order to find happiness. Whether these goals are big or small, they find that they need to chase these goals down and achieve them so they can be happy. For instance, I sometimes feel I need to do better in my own life with my goals so I can be happy. I feel that I should work harder to get a better job, or go back to school, and that if I accomoplished these goals, I'd be a lot happier. I think this is common for many people my age who spent a couple years in college, but ultimately never finished.
The second type of person finds their true happiness when they are making others around them happy, or trying to improve humanity as a whole. I think these people are best suited to become doctors, nurses, counselors or even priests. An example of this type of person is my mother. Growing up, and even now she is always making sure her family and others around her have what they need and that everyone has been taken care of. She never really had many big dreams or goals of her own, other than taking care of her family. This shows that she is definitely a person who finds their true happiness in the happiness of others.
While there are definitely these two types of people who find their happiness in these two different ways, I have found that the first type of person is more common. This is the person who finds happiness in trying to achieve their own goals. I think this is completely acceptable and natural. This is because everyonoe has goals, and it is only fair that we try to achieve as many of these goals as we can. In conclusion, I think people are more likley to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals, rather than the happiness of others.
