In the world women are expected to have a certain look, apperance and be what I call perfect.
We are to be wrinkle free, naturally pretty, hair free, in shape, with tight skin, tight bodies and all around perfect.
The images we see all around us show women who are perfect and seem to be flawless.  Nevermind that we all can not meet this perfect image nor compete with the flawless images we see constantly.  We see them on tv, in magazines, internet....

Numerous products are thrown at us constantly.  Use this and your skin will appear to be years younger.  You will loose your wrinkles if you use this skin cream.  Look sixty no worries use this serum and you will knock years off of your face.
Put Botox in your face, stomach hell your bottom and you will tighten and firm and of course loose your wrinkles and not get anymore.


All of this comes at a price.  Both a price to your wallet and sometimes to your health and how you look.  You may think you are doing things to improve you visual appearance, but a lot of the time if just looks like someone who wanted to look younger got their face shot up with Botox.  Comepletely defeating the purpose.

Geez lets admit how we look.  Quit putting images of women out that look like no normal everyday person can look.  They normally don't use the products they promote nor do they achieve those looks by slapping on some face cream.



How can people expect to be perfect? We don't have the money most of these people have we are normal everday people just getting by!!!!

Let's get real and understand that we get older, we get wrinkles and we also get knowledge.  Be happy with doing the best you can with what you have.   

I think people will be happier when they realize that there is more to life than what we look like.  Stop with these unattaninable ideals of beauty.  Quite frankly the ones in the ads their jobs are to just work at looking good and they have the money and the time to do it.  Most of us do not!I hope that these words make sense and that women everywher learn to embrace their beauty and to quit putting money into things that will not change the way they look.  It is only putting money into the hands of false advertisement and feeding on the needs of women to try to be something they are not 

