    I think people achieve more success by competiting, but possibly more people achieve success by cooperation. Competition means that not everyone wins, not everyone succeeds, but those that do are the best of the best. Competition is everywhere, in sports, in school, in family game nights, and even in courtship behaviors. Just about everywhere you go there's competition of some sort. I, personally, think competition is the best way to garner success. People are more successful through competition.    
    There is competition literally everywhere. When kids in school first start realizing they like other kids in a way they want a partnership but their best friend feels the same way about the same person, that produces competition to win the persons heart. In the end, the best person wins the heart of the person they were interested in. The bad thing is that those people may not be friends anymore, afterward. 
    Sports is a way that competition garners few victories but they are huge victories to those that win. Take, for instance, the Superbowl. All of the games that were played all year long up until that point were the best teams playing against each other with only one winner. This eventually leads to the Superbowl, which is the best of the best competing against each other knowing there will only be one winner. This makes people train harder, play harder, and win harder.            
    The other side of the story is that through cooperation more people win. The cooperation of those Superbowl team players of the winning team are the reason the team won. Without cooperation from all of those players, the team would have lots. It takes the whole team to win, therefore cooperation allowed success for multiple people whereas competition made for a team that was a loser.
    I do think that, in the end, competition is the better way to get success in most circumstances, however I think without cooperation most competition isn't even possible. Competition forces people to pull things from everywhere, get the strenght they didn't know they had, come up with ideas they didn't know they could think of. Competition makes winners and the winners earned every second of their victory. So says the person who is always on both sides of the fence. I, for one, enjoy a little competition.
