     The beauty and cosmetics industry has exploded over the last few years with the number of products that are available to consumers. The products made by beauty and cosmetic companies have increasingly made more and more claims about their products and what consumers are able to accomplish or the results they are able to see if they use certain products. Packaging of these products have also become more flashy and made to stand out among competitors on the same shelves, just begging for consumers to pick certain products over others. All the while consumers are becoming more oblivious to the ingredients that are being used in these kind of beauty and cosmetic products, often to the detriment of consumer health and safety. The constant saturation of flashy product packaging and strong product claims have led consumers to believe they desperately need these products in order to live a younger, happier, more fulfilled life.
     This kind of over-consumption of beauty and cosmetic products has been especially prominent on social media platforms. People who call themselves "influencers" will buy tons of products and "review" them on their social media outlet. Often times these influencers will comment about how excited they are to try products because the products claim to "reduce wrinkles, plump the skin, even skin tone, reduce pores, cover scars, etc." or they claim how drawn they were to a product because of how pretty the packaging looked. When consumers watch videos about influencers doing this it leads them to believe they need to try the same products and see for themselves if the product works. Meanwhile, no one is talking about the potentially harmful ingredients being used  in the products and what that could mean for long term negative health consequences for people. 
     Some may say that these products have been around for years and very seldom do people report having significant side effects from using the products. Maybe a product turned their skin a little red or made their face break out in acne but they did not have side effects that were particularly scary or dangerous. But if you think about the rates of cancer sky rocketing, respiratory issues that more and more people are having, etc. it leads one to wonder if the products that we are constantly ingesting in some form or fashion may be having slow, but long term negative effects on our health. And for influncers to constantly push product consumption, it lends to way too many products being put on or in the body without proper knowledge of potentional health consequences. 
     The increased saturation of flashy packaging and strong product claims have led to consumers buying cosmetic and beauty products in unprecedented numbers. The impressions left by these companies and their products have led consumers to believe that they need more and more product to live a better life. All the while, consumers are becoming less and less aware of the ingredients they are putting into and onto their body which creates an unknown chasm for human health. Hopefully, people will soon realize that they need to be much more aware of what they are constantly consuming and make more informed decisions. 
