Materialism: a love hate relationship with money and worldly possessions.  Many people view materialism differently in a modern day society.  Some people think its an act of acquiring more worldly possessions that aren't needed and some view it as a way to live.  Others may think that if they grew up poor and make decent money now, that they can buy whatever they want and live however they want.  While some others are more save savvy and believe that living within your means and having little is the way to go.  

But let's face it, I think materialism is based really on what kind of person you are.  Are you one that views money and "stuff" as something that is a necessity or are you the kind of person that belives that we brought nothing into this world and will leave with nothing.  Should be live content with what we have?  Or should we really be longing for the next thing that we can purchase?  Are you one that can say "no" when you have an urge to purchase something?  Or do you already have your paycheck spent before you even receive it.  For me, I used to think that worldly possessions was something that made me the most happy (even after having children).  I would think that myself or my kids needed the most up-to-date clothing or I needed a new purse when the urge hit me to buy something.  It wasn't until my husband and I hit rock bottom and were left with nothing, that I realized that the cycle that I had been used to, the Lord was telling me I needed to get rid of.  The Bible talks about keeping your lives free from the love of money and material possessions and being content with what He provides for you and you can't have or serve two idols, meaning you can't serve the Lord and serve greed or material possessions as well.  I want to leave a legacy behind for my children to be proud of and that even includes how we view money and the things we purchase.  I am not saying that it isn't ok to make splurges every now and then, but how often are those "splurges" becoming frequent.  The Bible also talks about "Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also." and I would much rather be a giver, than be greedy.  I think we need to examine our hearts and find out what the root of the problem really is when we view materialism.  What does it stem from?  How can you overcome it?  With the rise of inflation and the way that things are costing more to survive or even to get from point A to point B, I think we should all stand back and really re-evaluate how our purchases really effect our lives and define them rather as a want instead of a need.

I know we all have a form of greed in our hearts and it is hard to change that, but it would be better to try than to be known as someone who is constantly thinking about what they can purchase with their next dollar.  I want to be known as someone who gives freely because the Lord gave freely to me.  I believe that we can all do something useful with our money instead of just acquiring more "stuff" that is going to lead to hoarding.  Lets teach our children that the key to happiness is not what they can purchase, but what they can give.  Live a life full of contentment and there will be no room for greed or earthly possessions.  I believe that until you hit rock bottom, you won't fully be able to see the value of a dollar and how you are the only one that can alter how you view the "stuff".  In the end, society can't be looked at too harshly over materialism if that is all we have ever known.  We live in America where everyone is free to make choices and there are going to be some that choose greed and others that choose minimalism.  I think there are more important things we can fix our time and energy on that is considered a crisis vs what we see others spending their money on.  Materialism is a personal choice and society shouldn't have a say in it at all! Instead of judging others who are might be sprialing out of control, lets step in and kindly help them, not criticize!  


