     In our daily lives, we can all be taken in by flashy packaging--that packaging might contain products, it might contain services, it might contain people trying to attract our attention for various purposes.  It behooves us to be able to look past the glitzy and glamorous facade to see what's truly on the inside.  We need to be able to do this in order to make informed and appropriate choices.  
     For example, we've all seen television advertisements of children's toys that claim to do amazing things!  These usually occur around the holidays.  The purpose of these ads is to entice children so they'll request the toys for holiday gifts.  The advertising and packaging of these items is always very bright and colorful.  The toys always work perfectly in the ads, so that there is an aura of magical amazement surrounding them.  Often, once a child opens his or her gift on Christmas morning, the reality of the item inside is very different than what this colorful "packaging" has promised.  The toy inside is usually much smaller than expected relative to the size of the box, and it doesn't usually live up to the fantastic claims of the advertising.
     We can think about certain celebrities the same way.  These people are "packaged" to be larger than life.  In other words, they are so glamourized by the media that average people are awestruck.  In reality, they are just people that are very good at their job, be that performing, playing a sport, or participating in the political realm.  
     Some might disagree with these points, saying that the more hype surrounding a product or a celebrity, the more significant and valuable it is.  This is not always so, and we must learn to look past surface features to find intrinsic value.  People need to do their research.  To go back to the example of toys, it's important to look into the quality and also read reviews--how did other children respond to the toy?  Was it entertaining?  Did it last a long time?  When evaluating people, one might try to find out more about their background, what interests they have, what their family life is like before making judgements.
     Fancy packaging can make anything or anyone look like more than it really is.  An intelligent consumer will look beyond external traits to uncover the value, if any, of what's inside.
