Imagine you are visiting Disneyland, California. You enter the park and are bombarded with enticing products, delicious foods, and themed attire. You've never worn mickey mouse shirt in your day to day activities, but it's right there, and everyone else is wearing them too. You end up buying the shirt, enjoy your vacation, come home and never touch the shirt again. The environment you were in encouraged you to purchase something that didn't really benefit your lifestyle, all because of presentation and images used to lure you in. Businesses have mastered the art of attractive packaging, logos, and 'name brand' mentality in order to convince you that you need their product. 

We all know you get what you pay for, but is this the case in every circumstance? Nike clothing company, for example, has established a dominant hold on the athletic clothing industry. With it's attractive logo and broad selection of products it's no wonder everyone wants to wear Nike. As a young child, if you didn't wear Nike shoes to gym class you were considered a nerd, poor, or had bad taste. The minimalistic approach to the coveted orange box has created a wonderful example of something that has created dominance simply by it's appearance. This can easily sway people to make decisions that may not suit their needs simply because they are attracted to the idea of something rather than the actual product. This doesn't go to say that Nike doesn't sell nice clothing or materials, but it's worth reconsidering if Nike is something that you truly enjoy or if you purchase it because of it's popularity and apperance.

While it's not necessarily bad to be attached to one company or another, it's important to recognize why we spend our money where we do, and if it needs to be reevaluated based on the marketing strategies businesses use. It is purposeful and calcualted on how to lure you in and convince you to buy into a product, person, or even political party. Everything is made out to be 'right' for you, so as long as you're educated you can help decide for yourself rather than let images tell you what you need and what you don't need. 
