So I feel that this is a major issue currently plaguing our country at this present time. The issue of people being mislead by pretty packages or pretty words just being lied to or being told half truths. Overall the issue spans from advertising companies to things you see in stores. Also it is a major some would say massive issue from the news media only telling half truths or outright lies to people who watch.  My stance on this is that it is extremely wrong and immoral to mislead or lie to others especially about products or news and things of that nature. The reason I feel this way personally is because it doesn't enable us as humans to make proper choices and decisions with all the facts and information at our disposal. It also might lead people to spend money on products that do not do as they are advertised. It also might lead people to support things in politics that don't even have their best interest at heart.  This all falls under images and impressions having too much of an effect on people since what they see they percieve as the truth so it appears to be the most important thing even more important than what the reality of the situation is.

I can understand that they are conflicting opinions about this topic. Someone might say that a person should be able to form their own impressions. One might also say that well its up to the person or consumer to research things that they see or hear so that they aren't mislead. Another arguement could be that this is what the person telling the story or selling product sees as the truth so they themselves are not being misleading or lying to others. The last argument could be that with how far technology has came people can research all the facts for themselves. I feel that those are simply excuses to enable such a negative behavior because it isn't fair or should be expected of consumers to pull out their phone and look up a products reviews before they buy it I mean even reviews are fake and misleading these days.  Also when it comes to things such a politicians or public figures there's really no way to verify the truth your self because you are only hearing about it from second hand sources.

It really is a flawed system and the whole truth should be laid out for everyone to see to make accurate judgements or purchases. There's also the other issue of how certain individuals have exgeratted abilitys or worth which leads people to believe that they just arent the same or are inferiors. So I can safely say that I feel as though images and impressions have too much effect on people when the information provided is misleading and half truths.  My stance is firm on this and it really cannot be changed even in the face of arguments that argue different points of views. 

The power that images and impressoins have on people is far too great. It isn't the person's fault though because tons of money and research is invested into making a perfect image or impression or package or story to create a false narrative to make what we see be more important than what is really true. There really isn't much that can be done about this other than companies and individuals being held accountable for their actions in some shape or form. I think with how far social media has came and technology it is now a easier time than ever to create false impressions or images to mislead others. 

Lastly I would like to point out that there are really no positive benefits to society as a whole for images and impressions having such a impact on people. The only benefits for this are for the companies that make their money off of advertising and selling products or news to the masses. The issue is that when companies can make their money from misleading or just creating a pretty package that tells half the truth is that it makes it so why would a business be honest when their current methods are working perfectly fine, and there is no negative draw backs for their actions. It truly is ashame that what people see is often times misleading and blocks out what the reality truly is and no one can ever really know whats true or false or simply misleading these days. Hopfully in the future the things people see will not be more important than what is really there or really happening but it takes a united effort to create this change and we are still far off from this goal. However at least starting the process now enables it to be a reality for future generations of people.


