The thrill of buying something new. Placing the order. Getting your tracking number. Obsessibly refeshing it the tracking number. Watching the bar crawl forward, until, yes! Delivered! It's fun! It's thrilling! Society today depends a lot on material goods, and has built up countless businesses around materialism. Material goods can bring people together. Sharing joy around a similar good can create life long friends. Goods can also inspire people and breed innovation, creating small businesses. Modern society should be critizied for being mateterialistic. 

Many people complain that materialistm brings a lot of waste into the world. Producing lots of plastic things that are going to be consumed, thrown out, and then packed into a landfill. People often find value in the things they've bought. When you no longer want an item, rather than chucking it in the trash, you may be more inclined to donate the item, or sell the item. If this item once brought me joy, why would it not make someone else happy? This also fuels business, the buying and selling of used goods a major part of many people's careers and lives. Some items may find their end in trash, but so many also find second or even third homes. 

Material goods can bring people together and form social groups. One category of material goods, trading cards, has created countless collector communities and industries. From football players to Pokemon, these shiny pieces of cardboard have created life long friends multi-million dollar businesses. Pokemon in particular is a very welcoming community, encouraging collectors to create specific and special collections that can make them happy. Due to materialism and the markets that support it, a Pikachu card you might have bought in the 90s might be worth a few hundred today, making them not only fun to collect, but valueable alternative investments too.

Materialism can be critized for creating a large backpack, and having a lot of things. Minimalism is sold as a way to downsize, and only hold onto the nessities. While there should be balance with everything, and you should be consious of what you're adding to your life, minimalism can be harmful. With only the nesessities, it can take the fun out of your home. Even if it serves no purpose, it's fun to have a plastic pink cat on your desk, or a clock in the shape of an owl, hooting on the hour. If everything it's reduced down to just it's most simplistic parts, where's the fun in that? Materialism breeds creativty and a variety of excitng choices. People have different tastes. Having your personality and individuality reflected around you is fun! Someone might want an owl clock, someone might want a more simplistic clock, but a materialistic society makes those choices possible, and gives someone the chance to show who they are. 

A materialistic society creates markets, communities, and is a wonderful way for peopel to express their individuality. Without material goods, people may have not made life long friends, or started a business that now supports their family. A materialistic society gives the oppertunity of choice, for self expression, for freedom, and finding passion. There's nothing wrong with brining joy into your life with your favorite things. 

