Some people are competitive by nature while others are content with just cooperating. I personally can see the benefit of cooperation and competition as well as the cons of both. I do feel the measure of success from doing either of the two depends solely on the values of the individual but for sake of an argument, I would say one would probably benefit more from competing.

When in a competitive state, we as people are more willing to push ourselves further than our own limits in aims to exceed the limits of someone else. We all would like to come out on top or 1st place. There is an overall benefit in being competitive because with this much energy towards your goals, you can definetely improve your wellbeing and your mindset. When competitive, I think it matters more on the individual why they are being competitive. Are you competing because you want to be the star of the show? What if it stems from deep psychological traumas where you may find yourself seeking recognition for doing well? It could even be because you are looking to improve yourself in order to gain more incentives. 

The reason(s) behind being in a competition is what determines whether you are succeeding in life or not. For example, if you participate in a race and come in second place, will you beat yourself up because you weren't first? Or will you be proud of yourself for joining in and still beating out others? If you are the type of person to compete and are emotionally effected by someone coming ahead of you in a hateful way then I personally cannot judge that as success. And if you are the type of person to come in first place and think you are better than everyone else who tried then that also to me doesn't seem successful to me either. If you are a competitive person who can always see light in every situation then for sure there is success to that because you are essentially, a leader. And that's the primary advantage of having a competitive spirit. You desire leadership.

Now, if you are more of a cooperative person, you might not benefit so much in terms of success. A cooperative person from my point of view moves with the wind. You can be dependent on someone telling you what to do. In moments where you can show off your strengths or even enhance them by being competitive, when you choose to not compete, you are accepting where you are in life and not challenging yourself. There are definetely benefits to challenging yourself and others and when you only choose to cooperate, you miss out on the perks. A cooperative person may be the type of person who will not ask for a raise when they know they deserve it because they are depending on someone else to see and point out that it's time for them to be valued at a higher level. Being cooperative can lead you to a dependent and almost lazy way of living and how can you feel successful with that? There's also perks to being cooperative but I do feel that having a bit of competitive spirit can override those perks because self improvement to me is more valuable in individuals.

A balance between cooperating and competing is essential to one's success. If you can find a common ground between doing both then you will succeed but my overall thoughts are you will benefit more but competing. This is because I believe that competition brings out moreso the best in you because you attempt to try, you stand out, you have an opportunity to better yourself and your overall being but most importantly, you learn something. I feel that you limit yourself when always cooperating and it may deem you easier to get along with but you may miss out on truly enhancing your life skills. In closing, don't be afraid to stand up and stand out.
