Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people? The topic itself put ourselves in a mindfull situtaion where we differenciate what we see and waht really it is. There are many things also types of people or charecterstics of people which seem to be one to our face but different at the back.

In today's world, in the generation of social media and huge rush we assume a lot things but they seem to be not as imagined. Many influencers on social media creates a imaginary lifestylewith images in front of us and as soon as we came across it we start chasing it. We start pushing ourselfs more to these unrealistic standards of life and start running over them, but in reality those are only the beautiful parts of ones life presented on social media, the other part lies with them. we most of time get focused on the success and the lifestyle but the reality of life in which there is a journey with equal balance of happiess and sadness we try to go against it.

Impressions creates an impact on people to achieve such things that may not be in real. Going aftersomething thats just an illusion and constantly chasing it, and going to deep depressive state when not accomplished. It also inculed the advertisement industry or the influencers creating a image of an product which is genrally more positive and have only pros the cons they hide and we go for it. People get infulenced they belive that they see and hear on and then if it dosen't goes as expected trust issues take place.

Just to elaborate point of view one have a decision made for purchasing a particular product , he/she is ready to buy that product but seddenly comes across an advertisement which affects his buying decisions as the advertisement or the influencer in it claims the postive view of the product and its unrealistic images so strongly that, it creates an unrealistic illusion which seems to be so realistic enough to put and effect on peoples mind. He/She was known to his end aim but got distracted and followed a path that he/she never really wanted to follow. These impressions and images create a huge impact over peoples mind.


