What is happiness? 

Happiness is a board term. It can mean many things. Does happiness come from within or from the people around you? The following is what my opinion on happiness. 

There are people who have a bubbly personality. There are others who complain all the time. Then there are people who are clinically depressed. Personally, I would want to be around the people who have the bubbly personalities. But then, if someone who complains all the time would be around the person with the bubbly personality, would it change their outlook on life. Can the bubbly person make the complaining person more likely to change into a happier person. Or vice versa, will the bubbly person change into more of a complainer if they were around the complainer too much. What about the depressed person. I think they can be happier with medication. 

So, I believe that not only does happiness come within but it also comes from the people who you befriend. I would rather be around happy people than complainers. However, you have to help yourself to become happy also. Think of the good things in life then the negative aspects.  

Also, to me, money doesn't buy happiness. If you aren't happy in the first place, how does one expect material things to make you happy. Sure, a new car would be nice. But how is that going to make your own true self happy. My happiness would rather come from a hike in the forest, listening to the birds sing or watching the animals scutter by. 

Everyone is different in what they perceive happiness to be.  I believe it comes from deep inside one self. But, then again, maybe it can be environment also. I believe that children raised in happy homes grow up to be happy adults. However, kids raised in abusive homes, have to really work on being happy. what if you grew up with parents that are always telling you that you are no good and that you will amount to nothing. That would take a lot of therapy telling you that they are wrong and that you are a good person. 

I believe that happiness come from within. If you are not a happy person than seek help. There are medications that can make you happy if you are depressed. There is nothing wrong with seeking help.







