     As society has progressed and modernized, we've seen the rise in materialism being a large component of it. With goods and services being available to us at the push of a button, who can balme us? Some praise materialism for its contributions to personal fulfilment and the betterment of society in general, while other criticize it for it's negative contributions to mental health, mainly an increase in anxiety, depression and other related illnesses. Anti-materialists will also criticize materialism for portraying consumption as what should be one's sole goal in life, as well as showing off instead of creating things of value. With these points and values in mind, it is my belief that our modern society should be criticized for being materialistic.
     
     One reason that modern society should be criticized for in regards to materialism in decrease in mental health. While having more things can make a person happy in the short term, in the long run it can lead to an increase in anxiety and depression. According to Amintta Ragavanis, most people feel that they need approval from others, and may buy things just so that they receive said approval by others. However, some may bgin to hate others for having things that they themselves don't. A rise in depression and anxiety can arise from this constant cycle for needing to consume more to be approved by others and not being able to recieve such approval.
     
     Another reason modern society should be criticized for materialism is the fact that people now, more than ever, feel the need to show off instead of creating anything of value. Ragavanis notes the huge role that social media has played in materialism, with people posting pictures of designer items, like cars, clothes and huge mansions, leading their viewers to follow suit. However, this leads to less innovation and creation because of people simply following others and consuming more and more.
     
     While there may be a few short-term beneifts to materialism in society, it's overall place in society is not a positive one, with negative effects on mental health, as well as diminished innovation.
