How can a person find true happiness? That has been a question that has resounded through the ages, from time immemorial, probably back to the beginning of mankind. Some say that finding a goal in life, identifying your heart's desire and striving for it will make us happy, while others assert that only by subverting our own desires and working for the good of others can we find the true fulfillment that leads to happiness.  The truth of the matter is that both options, if pursued exclusively, will lead to an incomplete life, and thereby rob us of true happiness. Only by combining these two options and finding some level of accomplishment in both will we have the well-rounded life and happiness for which we all contiually strive.

For example, take the musician who began piano lessons at a very young age. Over time, she develops the craving for fame and glory that would come from being a concert pianist. She studies year in and year out, hours a day, to achieve her goal. How often have we heard that such a person still does not succeed in achieving fame, and that the end of all that struggle, they have a special gift to bring music to the world, but have so neglected their other personality aspects that they remain one-sided and shallow, bereft of the feelings that others have developed. The same can be said for any goals that leave a person closed off from so much of life and their fellow men, including sports like gymnastics or acting or anything one strives for obsessively. And even if they achieved fame and wealth, how many times have we heard of such a person committing suicide because their life was basically so one-sided they felt empty?

On the other hand, take a person who believes the world to be hopelessly unfair and hates to see others harmed. His altruistic nature may drive him to work ceaselessly for the betterment of society. He works tirelessly at a menial job just to be able to afford some gifts to charity and to help build houses for the poor and volunteer with rape survivors and the homeless in all of his spare time. Society would be right in judging this as a good and caring person, but at the end of his life, what has he done for his own personal fulfillment, or to find happiness for himself? It could be that he has always had wishes and desires he has not fulfilled because his extreme morality would not allow him to be that selfish. Wouldn't he feel cheated if he thought he would love to play piano, let us say, and a friend dragged him to a concert and there he saw a virtuoso living his private dream?

The truth is that we must first have the self-knowledge to know our talents and desires, which for some is no easy task. Then a person must have enough love for others to realize a great deal of our lives involves the happiness of others, and striving for that in whatever form will bring us some measure of contentment. Therefore, a person who has dreams of his own person future must turn these into actionable goals and attain as much as he can, but never along the way lose sight of the people around him, and do as much as he or she can to bring love and comfort to their fellows. One has to have enough love for him or herself to strive for personal fulfillment, but also has to have enough love for his brothers and sisters to not become so obsessed with success that he neglects those around him.

Of course some people do seem perfectly happy finding expertise in their chosen fields, and some are perfectly happy serving humanity. Finally, many people succeed in neither, but have a job that never pays enough, and doesn't particularly seem to care about the welfare of others, and still seem quite happy. Is happiness something connected with our personality and temperment that has nothing to do with what we do or don't do in our lives? I feel that this is not the case. I believe it is rare that we can know the reality of a person's emotions unless they are very close to us. I believe that even those that appear to be happy with neither success or altruism are only showing that face to the world but in private they remain unfulfilled and probably bewildered and unhappy. I also believe that those who have achieved great success either in their own goals or in the betterment of others may appear happy for the same reason, but if they were to tell the truth, the suffer the same restless bewilderment and unhappiness. It is truly only by striving for both and having a well-rounded life that we find true happiness.
