  Philosophers, Scientists, and everyday humans have contemplated and asked questions about happiness and contentment for centuries, if not for basically all of human history. To be happy is relative to every individual. It can be influenced by a myriad of sources like culture, family, peers, or just plain individual preference. So, what might lead to a higher elevation of happy. Could it be focus on Personal happiness? Could the reward be in focus and furtherence of happiness on a large social group? In, general, I belive true happiness comes from a larger interaction with the world around you, even if it seems to be individually focused in some cases.
  What does that mean? Simply, in the case of focus on a larger group, working towards prosperity and mutual safety within a social grouping, whether it be family, community, or humanity at large, can lead to a personal sense of accomplishment and worth within that social grouping. Finding your happiness through gesture, labor, and activities within your group is a collective effort. This collective effort can be as simple as smiling at people you see on the street. They feel good, you feel good, then pass it on as you go. Finding joy in your contributions to your group by taking pride in what you offer, can also lead to an infectious contentment among your circle.
  Now, what do I mean when I say the pursuit of happiness can seem individually focused, but still be towards a greater improvment to humanity, the earth, and every creature on it. In some cases, a human being may not want or need direct social interaction with a group. Yet, that human could be happy living with minimal interaction and still be working to make a positive impact for the earth and everything on it. So, seeing them as seemingly singularly focused on their own goals is a fallacy. Their goals to be self sustained and part of a more intangible social structure, such as the planet as a whole, are very much rooted in the happiness of others, even if those others are not nesscesarily human.
  On the contrary, I do not belive that a singular fix on one's own goal can lead to true happiness with no regard to others. Though the gratification may seem true when I goal is achieved, if that goal leaves others in its wake in an unnatural state of unhappiness. I do not belive that the individual can be truely happy. Of course, I am not talking about things such as a game that you win or lose. I am speaking on narcassictic pursuits that demand abuse, neglect, violence, or moral dissonance to achieve. A simple example, the goal is to get through a crowd onto a train. The crowd is all going to the same place, through the open door. Someone with the singular goal of getting in while bullying their way through the group may feel satisfied when they get in a few seconds before the rest of the crowd. But, can they truly be happy with themselves if they conduct themselves in such a way, thus hurting others in the process, throughout their life for their own "goals" further isolating themsleves with each infraction. I do not think so.
  In the end, I do belive that true happiness comes with a larger sense of being, more than sense of self. Acting and Making goals that benefit yourself as well as others leads to much happier ends for the individual.
