People in this world are blessed to have a myriad of emotions. Unlike many other animals we see out there, we have the capacity to experience emotions and express them in a way unique way, other animals cannot. In this way we are in a way, a very special species. We have the capacity to feel and we care about oneself and others. We are also social animal and we love to set goals for our personal achievement or professional. We may be delighted to see that we have met our personal goals. Some do not believe that we achieve happiness from our own personal goal but rather helping realize others goals we attain the hapiness on the way. My position is that I think our happiness comes from our personal goals, not others.

We reach our happiness via our goal goal because its something personal. Think about the last time you set a goal and you actually reached it--was not it really liberating and you get a wave of relieve and pressure? Its the same way you attain the happiness, content-ness. Reaching of something so dear and personal to us makes us happy. It pushes us further and further into advancing in whatever we are trying to achieve. We feel a personal satisfaction and happiness that cannot be achieved by assisting realizing goals for others.

Some may argue that helping others give us the best feelings and push us toward happiness, but I digress. It is a nice thing to help others, do not get me wrong but the line is drawn when you push your personal life, goals and dreams away and help realize others. That does not sound good and personally satisfying, does it? The philosophy of assisting others are grand but how do you help others when you cannot help yourself? You have to reach one own's personal goal and achieve satisfaction to you to be able to realize other people's goals and dreams. This is why people are more likely to be happy when they own on themselves, and they work with themselves to make themselves happy.

In the end, I think people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals than of others. I believe that helping oneself above first before others is a crucial step in achieving self-satisfaction and happiness. Focusing on onself reaps greater rewards than helping others. One can help others but only after they achieve their own personal dreams and goals also be satisfied then happy. It is nothing but simple common sense that is to help oneself first before you are able to help others. So overall, people are more likely to be happier to focus on themselves and attain their personal goals and dreams--in the end--happiness then trying for others and finding the happiness on the way.  The latter phenomenon is rare because we have truly so much people that are other-centered.
