Images and other's impressions have become a significant part of today's society.  Through television advertisements and social media we are constantly innundated with additional information that several years ago we may not have been exposed to.  Everything from political advertisments, the most recent share of tips and tricks and the latest "caps and hacks" through TikTok videos.  We are constantly exposed ot the information, some good things come out of it, but also many non-sensical and potentially violent theories and philosophies.  By looking at just a few examples through political advertising and social media we can see the most recent shift in our society and the impact it has had.

Political advertisements have been a thing for as long as we can remember.  The advertisements putting down a candidate and their viewpoints or heralding them as the next savior of the state or nation.  Someone who is there to protect the little guys or help the big guys.  These things while they have been happening up to this point,  are now more prevalent on more platforms where the information is readily available, to individuals en masse.   Where more eyes can see it and be influenced by it, then there ever was in the past, and small ideas have been able to accrue massive stakeholder buy in.  The invention of Facebook and even back to the creation of the  internet, people have been influencing, corrupting, alienating and bullying whoever is willing to listen.  This shift in information availability has greatly impacted us, and has left us deeply impacted by images and impressions shown and explained by others.  Opening pathways to new religions, political affiliations and terrorist groups and organizations.  While there has also been advancement in providing help, including suicide prevention and awareness, health care access and assistance, and even the ability to earn money.  Occasionally one wonders if the positives outweigh the negatives that come from the world wide web.

In conclusion, despite our best efforts to create forums to fact check, to actually fact check and filter the information that we and our householdes are exposed to, we are still deeply impacted by the exposure to these things.  The effect has created massive shifts and movements that may not have had a foot hold in the population in the past.  They create opinions that may not have been culturally acceptable, and in turn created and entire "woke" philosphy.  We would like to believe that we are beyond influence of the images and impressions shared with us, and our conclusions are one-hundred percent our own, but what if they are not ours?  What happens when what we think we are seeing, has been formulated to create a certain perspective and is only a part of the narrative that an individual or group wants you to see?  They are definitely questions that we should be able to answer.
