In nature, bright colors usually denote objects of importance. A bird's vibrant plumage may be part of its mating strategy. A bright red berry may signal its poisonous nature. People have adopted this behavior. We wear flashy colors, ride stylish cars. Advertisements need to grab consumers' attention. Packaging plays almost as important a role in sales as does the product itself. Signaling is vital in today's society. But is there too much of it? Is it possible, that at a certain point, excessive signaling can become detrimental to the people who use it?

Between the colors of nature and man, there is one clear difference. Within the former, signaling is geared toward survival. There is always a goal. An objective. "Don't eat me, I will kill you." "Touch me, and I will sting." But humanity is not so goal-oriented. The colors we wear on our clothes aren't there to attract a mate. Well, not usually. Nor does the packaging on most food cartons denote its actual nutrional needs -- that's found on the back, in black and white, in plain and evenly printed lines. Within a conversation, we may say things we do not mean, but they will make us feel good. Politicians will double down on that. Constituants, after all, like the bearers of good news, even if reality may be a tad harsher. None of these events serve a grounded need. 

So then, what is there purpose? Why would a politican lie or an ad agency put a bright logo on a kids' cereal packet? Why buy designer clothes? Why would a friend lie to a friend? The answer, often, is comfort. Of the seven deadly sins, most people are guilty of in partaking -- to  a variety of degrees. Our daily lives are, if not goverened, then perhaps influenced by pride and vanity. Greed and lust. We like the overpriced designer clothes -- even though, on a pragmatic basis, they may be no better than the regular deal. On packaging or ads, bright colors will attract attention. We have been primed by society's declarations of what is pretty and good, what is valuable, and what is not. We want to feel good about ourseleves, which often means we want other people to feel good about us. But is it too much? 

Consider the space race. That, too, is an expression of human pride. And greed. How could it not be -- strapping a human onto a rocket and blasting them beyond the atmosphere, into the cold embrace of vacuum? The risks? Immense. But in the decades the space race existed, it captured imaginations. Little kids grew up dreaming of becoming astronauts. Photos from outer space motivated many to study science, to learn more about the world than they knew. It left an impression, just as a detailed corvette or a bright logo on a t-shirt that costs a lot more than it cost to make. 

We, humans, live for impressions and images. They drive us forward in many different ways. And yes, sometimes, that drive is flawed. Sometimes, the road leads nowhere and our efforts are lost and wasted. But in other occasions, we use this to motivate ourselves. To change and shape the world around us. To achieve great things. We just need to balance the excess with the pragmatic. 
