Introduction:
                         How to work with people and what is the people happiness and how to make a good feel for all time. That are see in the eassy.

Position:
                           So to effect is have some position. That time position to have give the some reaction at that time. That is some angry situvation to give the Smile to more place is fine. Empatize and list of happy moment to remember is fine and good. many details to find fast that time more happiness to come in.

Reasons and Evidence:
                           so when it comes to effective goal-setting to creat at our our life.  So lots of us have dreams. We know what makes us happy, what we do love to try out, and we may have a vague idea of how go about it. So reason is that time to make some happiness and correct way to go. Many details to find fast and better way. Connect some information to easy and better. Evidence is oen family to live in outside of the city. That is no money to have. So to feel very sad and not good at that moment.  So that family goal is to live in city side. So that family to give the lot of effect in work. Daily to talk about the dream. That is very happy moment. So after some year. to archive the goal. that is make a more happyness and good feel. this is my evidence story.

Counterarguments and rebuttals:
                            To learn and better mind thorugh to come it our mind.  So the fact that we can't control everything doesn't mean we can't dream and set goals for ourselves. Decideing on smart and enjoyable life goals can help you to enjoy and embrace the ride, while still creating a life that uyou are proud of  a life that excites you.
 So conterarguments and rebuttals more important to make happiness.

Dream:
                    So dream to set in our life is good and better. So that is how to set it. So many of us have drams or ideas of what could make us happy. Maybe it is something specific, perhaps it's vague, possibly it is just something that you would like to try. No matter what it is, to se your life goals, you need figure our what is important to you. Once it is clear, creating a path or plan can help you to get started and move in the right direction.

Conclusion
                   So people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of other to make it. So goals and dream is very important in our life. That is good and better one to see it. Connect the all feeling to be better one. some information to get the easy way. That is good one and better one. So this is our story to get the happiness and happy moment. connect some haapy moment in our life that is fine to make the goal in the easy way. Some information to get the easy way is good and fine.
