I beleive that people are happier when people focus on other's happiness. I am a Christian. The old me believed that I'd be happier focusing on completing my goals. Personally, I have been happier when I see that my actions make another person happy. 

My husband and I recently sat down and visitied with an elderly widow from our church. We'd gone over to help adjust her sprinklers because two sprinklers were not spraying as they should. When we finished her requested help, she invited us in and we sat and visited with her for an hour. It was a great time. She asked many questions and shared many stories and experiences of her life. Just this little bit of giving our time to Ms. Faye was a great thing. Sure we could be home completing our own home chores and maintenance, but both me and my husband knew this visit would make her day.

Another expereince where I found myself happier knowing that I'd helped prevent a potential state of depression. A friend of ours and his wife became foster parents. When they found out their foster daughter had to move on, our friend's wife went into a state of depression. She wouldn't get out of bed. She didn't cook or provide any support to their family. So after learning this was about to happen again, I intervened and invited them to go marble hunting with me despite knowing that we'd be missing a wrestling tournament for our child. They accepted my invitation and we went out hunting marbles. Our friend's husband shared with mine that this really helped to prevent another state of depression. To this day, she is out marble hunting more than me. 

In conclusion, based on my own beliefs, seeing the happiness of others makes me happy. Knowing that I was able to help someone brings me joy. I encourage you, if you don't already do, to follow Jesus. When you're a follower of Jesus your life will get better, your soul will be renewed. Your life doesn't need to revolve around materialistics. After all, when you die where are all your materials going to go? 

