Happiness. You know the feeling or maybe you don't. It's what we all want, but how do we even acheive it? Selfless sacrifce for others or laser focus on our own goals? While both ways can lead to feelings of happiness, I believe that you must fulfill yourself first in order to find your own true happiness. I will discuss in more detail why I believe that to be true. Please keep an open mind while reading. 

Think of that adage when you are flying--put on your oxygen mask first before you help others. In our case, find your happiness first.  It may sound selfish, but I believe that when we are focused on our own needs and finding our own path, that is truly the only way to find our happiness. We must focus on what is inside of us and our inherited skills and values and in doing and using those values, we bring a sense of joy to ourselves. We can acheive a sense of accomplishment and contentment, which all lead to feeling happy and becoming self-actualized. Think about Buddhist. They are seen as the mecca of good and are at peace and happy. What do they spend most of their time doing? Mediatating alone! They highly encourage others to do the same. When you are at peace with yourself and know yourself, that is the path of enlightenment. 

Many people would argue that service to others is a true way to find happiness, but I would say to those people to stop avoiding themselves. Yes, it may feel good in the moment and it may feel like a calling, but when you are alone, do you know how to make yourself feel happy? We each are given one soul, one personality and a set of skills and desires. Why spend your life devoted only to the happiness of others. I am not saying that you shouldn't focus on others at all, for sure I am not. I truly believe in giving to others and finding ways to make life better for all. However, that cannot be done unless we ourselves are whole and happy. How can you give something that you do not have?

Finding happiness is not always an easy task. Some people leave this planet without ever experiencing true joy of their own. They are either miserable or have spent their life giving and giving to others and in the end, may feel accomplished but still do not know their own happiness. So I implore everyone to dig deep and get to know themselves. Find what fills your soul and allows you to experience joy. Be your best self. Find your happiness first and then see what paths open up for you!
