Materialism - the modern first world lifestyle of impulsive and continuous collecting items and spending money on things we don't need- can be a motivating force for humanity, but can also be an unsustainable scourge on the earth that needs greater review and criticism.  

I believe the entire capitalist model that focuses on producing disposable items in exchange for money is the wrong direction for us, and will not result in any meaningful improvement in quality of life.  For instance, mass production of material goods that are not made to last can result in factory pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, plastic litter on land and sea, landfill waste, cause harm to the health of wildlife and people, and in some parts of the world even create mountains of toxic trash that will never be properly disposed of.  In order to create these products en masse, giant industrial factories have to be used.  Often the production is offloaded to other parts of the world such as China, only creating human misery and indentured servitude.  We get our $9.99 trinket, but at what cost to the less fortunate people living on the other side of the world?

Some would say the ongoing worldwide quest of collecting money to exchange for more and more stuff can give meaning or purpose to life.  If a bit of critical thought is applied it's easy to see that any satisfaction or gain is fleeting at best.  When a person throws out a poor quality appliance and replaces it with something similar rather than repairing it (or didn't consider buying something of higher quality or longer-lasting to begin with) we just get more waste and continue to feed the cycle of "throw out and replace".  

In short, the individual has to keep buying things over and over to make the "economy" "grow".  The number one purpose capitalism assigns to human life.  To do this people are forced to attend an unfulfilling "job" or do some other needless money-making tasks and things that aren't advancing humanity or improving quality of life - for the sole reason of acquiring money.  It's clear that everything comes at a far greater cost than just the "money" that is spent to acquire it.  We essentially are just living in a repetitive circular roundabout of misery. For every fleeting moment of joy one receives from a purchase, another person must suffer.  Capitalism forces this outcome.  Is it really worth the cost to humanity and the environment?  Until we abolish capitalism, we will never be free of materialism.
