People have many different perspectives and preferred methods about being able to achieve success historically such as across sports, politics, business, or even in child-rearing. There are many ways to achieve success, but I believe that success is best achieved by cooperation as these types of successes can benefit society and many more people in the long-run.

There are many reasons to believe that cooperation is better for achieving success. The main example that I'll argue for is the passing of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Acts (IIJA). This was originally lead by President Joe Biden, but like many issues in politics, many people feared that this plan would not achieve bipartisan support from Democrats and Republicans. Through months of deliberation in 2021 across leaders from both political parties and a mutual understanding that our country's infrastructure (Transportation, energy, water, etc...) are in dire needs of physical repair and expansion to meet the public safety and mitigate the effects of climate change, President Biden passed the $65 billion infrastructure bill that will help millions of people around the United States. This example shows that collaboration amongst individuals can lead to improvements in society that benefit everyone in the long-term. 

Another strong example of collaboration is the victory of the allies in World War 2. Europe and most of Asia were losing the fight against the Axis powers of Germany, Italy, and Japan in the beginning of the war in the early 1940s. Tragically, there was also a significant loss of life for certain groups such as the Jews through German Concentration Camps and slave labor of many Asian countries by the Japanese. Once the allied countries parterned with the United States of America, the allies were quickly bolstered with reinforcements and resources. This helped them to end the war as quickly as possible and arguably, with less casualties and economic effects.

Despite these examples of collaboration on achieving success, there are many that can argue that success can be best achieved by competition. I do acknowledge that in sports and businesses, private interests and individuals have to acheive success by ultimately competing and beating out their competitors. One example of an individual, is the NBA superstar Lebron James. Despite him having to collaborate as a leader for the lakers in basketball, he has shown that he has been able to lead different NBA teams to victories and championships by beating out multiple other teams through his skill, hard work, defense, and communciation. He also had to leave multiple teams through trades in order to pick out the best environment for himself to not just become as a NBA champion, but to also to obtain the most valuable player award at the end of each NBA season. Through overcoming competition and adversity, Lebron James has been able to earn himself multiple accolades and a reputation as a successful NBA player.

Ultimately, there can be arguments that success can be achieved through competition or by cooperation. Some could even argue that both are important. However, I believe that cooperation is the key to success when looking at achieving bigger picture and long-term goals in society.
