Advertising, celebrity worship and the prevalence of social media has completely changed the way we perceive reality, ourselves and others. Appearances are not always in line with the genuineness of a situation. Instagram vs. reality is said in a joking manner but there is a lot of truth behind the phrase. 

When we see an influencer or celebrities social media posts, we are not seeing their darkest moments and unpleasant days, hey are often shilling unhealthy diet products with nice labels, tropical beach trips, pets, significant others that look like models etc. We are consuming this aesthetically pleasing, toxic positivity content at a rate that is unhealthy for us and it is having a negative effect on our mental, emotional and physical wellbeing.

Many people now will say that social media is a good way to connect, network and socialize, which it can be. The downside to having everything available to us constantly is the need to engage, mindlessly scroll and consume at a rate that is messing with our perception of reality and how we should be living our lives. 

The importance placed on public image and how you look and are perceived seems to be taking priority over deeper personality traits and experiences.  There is a correlation between success and how you are perceived online, how many followers and likes you have and where you are, what kind of material items you own. It looks like people succeeding now are just able to keep up this image and the weight people are putting into social media's importance is becoming too commonplace.

The algorithm targets you with advertisements, unrealistic body standards you will never meet and usually is not legitmately portraying this person's life, just what they want you to see. Most of the population is not living the same way as what we see online, the facade is making people believe they need to be a certain way to acheive success and happiness.  

It is healthier to take a step back and enjoy life outside of this bubble of what we think we need to be, material things, what we see online and how much we can gain from these unimportant and fake ideas that have overrun our lives. 
