It has been said that happiness comes from achievement of long term goals, working hard toward something that one values or believes in. Often, the circumstances around a goal overlap with personal situations and relationships with others. It becomes nearly impossible to singularly achieve a personal goal without some impact on those in one's social sphere. Knowing that one's efforts can improve and increase the happiness of others, one might opt to work toward goals that substantially grow the net positive outcome - working toward the overall happiness of others instead of prioritizing oneself. It stands to reason that pursuit of others' happiness may lead to increased happiness for people if by fulfilling that goal, they can achieve satisfaction and personal accomplishment as well.
A shared pursuit of happiness, one where a person aims to increase the happiness of those around them, can bring about overall higher levels of happiness and utility for more people. Rather than functioning in a bubble of personal goals, working toward the happiness of others can have far reaching impacts. Improving the life circumstances of many can increase the overall volume of measurable happiness by a larger value than simply working on the happiness of one person. 
Additionally, it's nearly impossible to pursue personal goals alone. One needs to connect with others to achieve goals involving romantic or family relationships, education, career success, money, and more. 
Some might say that a person can get just as much joy and happiness from pursuit of singular, personal goals, but this doesn't take into account the fact that some of the inherent value of achieving personal goals comes from sharing that victory with others. You get a promotion and want to tell your significant other. How happy can one be if they check an item off of their list, but have no one of value to share it with? You finish a degree and want to celebrate at a graduation ceremony. Alone, these achievements fall flat, but taking others opinions and happiness into consideration, they become greater than they would be otherwise.
In closing, it's clear that greater happiness can be achieved by focusing on the happiness of others, and the shared pursuit of goals that will benefit the largest number of people. Making your family happy and proud by contributing to their hopes and dreams can be something that is completed while pursuing your own goals. The joy of sharing these dreams, and combining the happiness of everyone, will help it to grow exponentially more than if it was just focused on checking off personal goals. 

