I believe people can find happiness doing both, in the grand scheme of things however, when you focus on your true wants, desires, goals and happiness you can't help but be the happiest. We all want to make others happy and to make the world a better place, but if we don't focus on ourselves as well, true happiness is not achieved.

The happiest I've been in my entire life was when I set a huge goal for myself and saw it through to the end. I did it when others told me I couldn't, I did it when others told me I shouldn't, I did it because it made me proud of who I was and what I could accomplish. Along the way I stopped to help others and help aid in their happiness, but I always got back to me and what I needed and wanted to accomplish. Feeling like I did something good for others was amazing but I couldn't forget about my needs. 

There are moments where we feel great about the things we do for others, its human nature. If all you ever do is help others though there is an emptiness inside that is still not filled. We can look at others in pride, with love and admiration, but if we never help ourselves to reach the same goals, there is a hollowness inside as if to say " Wow, I'm so happy for them, but why is this not happening for me as well?" I remember once I helped my ex with their goals. When they were achieved I felt so happy and thrilled with and for them, but when it was my turn, noone was there to help. It felt lonely and loathesome. I wished in the realization at that moment that I had made myself happy first. 

It's always said that we cannot truly be happy for others if we are not happy with ourselves, so of course focusing on our own goals first should be a priority. When we work toward our goals and achieve them, then we can truly be happy for others and help them better in their journey. So yes, I truly believe peoples are happier when they focus on their goals first. More pride and less regret. It seems ridiculous to me to say if you aren't making others happy first then you can't be happy yourself. 

What is it most people seek in life? Wealth? Sucess? Praise? No matter who you are or how you look at it it's always a basic human need to strive for the best for yourself. In school, all the way through, I would study hard, work on my assignments and give everything my all. After I did what I needed to, I would help others. Not that other people aren't just as deserving, but to me, my happiness and success was my first goal as you would think anyone elses would be to them.  

No matter how happy we are for others, if we don't achieve the goals we set out for ourselves we are not happy. It's human nature to need to thrive and be good at what we do. It's not normal to sit down while others get and achieve all they could ever want. Thats not healthy or normal human nature. Even if we feel happy on the surface for others, in the end, we can never truly be happy just by watching others achieve their goals. Sit back and really think about this! How do you feel when you achieve goals vs the level of happiness you feel when others achieve theirs. There is a difference.
