    My husband and I have been some-what planning a trip for some time now. He does not want to go, because we will be spending money. He knows that I will want to go explore and spend money on what he calls "unnessasary things". I have always been a materialistic person, and I don't think I will ever be able to change that about myself. I am trying to persuade my husband into going on this trip, no matter how much money we spend, or what things we buy. After all, it is all about adventure! I am excited as to what we will see or do, or BUY! My husband however, is a little bit harder to persuade. He can't envision the fun we will have ahead of time, instead he sees his money "fly out the window." I love to spend money, and I have no shame in showing that. My husband, on the other hand, is the complete opposite and does not want to spend even an extra penny if he doesn't have to. I have been a materialistic person since I was able to shop. My husband married me knowing that I love nice things and I love to shop, travel, and spend money on fun things!
    Over the next several days, I am going to show my husband a bunch of different photos, from different places around the world, that we could go to. I am going to show him all the fun and relaxing things that these places offer. I know that this will take some major convincing, becuase he truly does not want to go and spend any money. He is perfectly fine using his vacation time, sitting at home. I however, am not! The first place I am going to show him is the new condos, right on the beach, at the bahamas. Next, I will show him an all-inclusive, 7 day cruise! I would personally choose the cruise, but either one of these will be fine! The problem is, convincing him that these are both okay! He likes to save money no matter what. I even have to budget our groceries for the week, and if I go over even $1, he wants to know what happened! I understand he is just trying to set us up to have a good retirement, and to not be struggling, but come on! Live a little, right? 
   The day has come and I have done all of my research on these places and what it costs for an average family to take a trip to these places, and it turns out the cruise is actually the cheapest! He is still worried about on-board expenses, but I personally do not care at all. We are doing this to relax, have fun, and enjoy each others company! Who cares about what we are spending? Oh yes, my husband! He knows I am a materialistic woman, and I know he is the complete opposite. That is why people say "opposites attract", right? I know he will have a blast, and he will be willing to spend more on materialistic things once we arrive on board. I can not wait to start this vacation and buy all sorts of different things from all the different countries and ship shops! This is going to be a blast! 
    I think that people in the society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Most people that are materialistic just want happiness. Buying things and spending money can cause happiness in so many people, just like myself. My husband could care less and it truly bothers him when people spend money on things. I like to shop and buy all kinds of nice things for my home. He would sit on the floor it wasn't for me buying our furnitre, which he also thought was a waste! How crazy! I think it is okay to be materialistic. So what if that new purse you bought costs a lot? It made you happy, right? Then go for it! It should not matter what other people think about what you buy or how much you paid for things. This day and age, people should not be criticized for only wanting to be themselves and buy their happiness. In my opinion, I say GO FOR IT! Go buy that purse. Go on that vacation with your husband or family. Go shopping. Go have fun! I know this vacation will take a lot of stress off myself and my husband, I just have to convince him first. 
   

