I am writing to express my views on the question, "Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition?" I believe that success can be acheived regardless of the stimuli or conditions before the achievement. However, I do think that success is found slightly more through cooperation than it is through competition. I also feel that competition leads to an increase in frustration and disappointment if success is not achieved. Individual achievement and success can sometimes be hard to define and/or independent of one another. I believe cooperation leads to more success towards a goal than competition.

The driving factor for cooperation as a means to success is the ability to work towards a goal without focusing on the downfall of another group. Competition helps drive people to want to succeed, but it may also have a negative effect. Cooperation can also help drive people to succeed without the negative stimuli that often arises through competition. Whether an individual or group is driven by competition or cooperation, all that matters is whether the needs of the goal are met. An important example to describe this division might be two people working on a puzzle. The mindset of who places the most pieces would be a competition driven stimuli towards the success of completing the puzzle. The competition mindset focuses on placing pieces as quickly as possible to achieve success in a winner and lose scenario. The cooperative mindset also focuses on placing pieces as quickly as possible. However, everyone is a winner in this scenario. Cooperation allows the two players to use teamwork and help one another while competition turns focus away from team towards the individual. Hindering other players becomes a factor and could ultimately reduce the time taken to achieve success. Competition could also be between competing groups unlike this example, but the same factors apply where competition focuses primarily on the goal while cooperation focuses on the pieces. Focusing on an outcome gives rise to many problems.

By looking at the example of two players completing a puzzle, we see that completing the puzzle as quickly as possible could be the goal for success. In this scenario, cooperation is advantageous while competition can drive division. Competition, therefore, slows down the process of completing the puzzle. Ultimately, I believe cooperation leads to more success towards a goal than competition.
