  While the current environment likes to downplay the importance of competition, while emphasizing the greater calling of cooperation, the fact remains that competition is the way of the world. It has been since the beginning of human history. Competition is what drives people to succeed, what drives them to do better. It's what leads people to innovate and invent. This need to be better than others, to build the better mousetrap, to hit the jackpot, to impress the ladies, is what drives human society forward. To be the best you can be, to the best of your ability, means challenging yourself. It means taking on challenges that make you better. It means surrounding yourself with those who challenge you. It means competing with those others.
   In today's world, the importance of giving, of bending, of compromising and cooperating, is over-emphasized. When cooperating with others, someone always has to give up something, for the sake of harmony and to avoid conflict. Cooperation is always going to involve some kind of compromise, since one can not always get one's own way in a cooperative environment. Giving up means losing something. That something is often not very important and clung to, through stubbornness only. That particular something can be jettisoned in the spirit of cooperating.  That "something" could also have been the key to their own success - now or in the future. Letting go of that something, in the name of cooperation, could mean a loss for that person and their hope of future success.
   Competing with others inspires people to try harder, to come up with new ideas of how to move forward. Each new idea is tested by the individual and enhanced or discarded based on its success. Competition will always be necessary, and more important than cooperation, in achieving success through accomplishments. Winning isn't the only thing, or even the most important thing, but competing in the game with always be the way to achieve success and test ideas. Without the competition, there is no game to play.
