Reality is not so real and average Americans are highly misrepresented in the media. I do agree that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. Mainstream media is the culript for implanting this concept into human rationale. Reality tv is one of the biggest oxymorons ever created. This type of reality is manmade to influence consumers. The advertisments that constantly bombard us with what is considered ideal are everywhere you look. When outside of the comfort of our homes billboards and in store advertisments are abundant.  Even inside the home, tv commercials and social media ads haunt us all.

Product influence in media is a very clever tatic that companies have used ever since the printing press was created back in the 1400s. Guttenberg inadvertently created the abilty to advertise and influnce the decisions of others. Some people might say that the decision they make when choosing a product or service to purchase is not influenced by media. If this were true, then where would their opinion of the quality or likeability of a product even come from. One can formulate an honest opinion but they need a reference to base this from. Perception is key to gaining a true value of anything. But advertising or word of mouth are still going to persude the many. Your knowledge based on previous experince will also influence your choice. However, this is normally biased, because most experiences are soley from what your shown to percieve as ideal in media if you have never personally tried it yourself. 

In conclusion, it is most likely that if you had the choice between 2 items and they cost the same amount you would choose the more attractive option. For example, the governer of California, Gavin Newsom in an attractive man. He looks like an actor that you might see on a billboard for a new movie. This familiarity and law of attraction influenced peoples votes and allowed them to inore serious faults and incompetencies during elections. If he looked like an over-weight, pale, beady eyes, big nosed, short, wrinkled man I highly doubt he would even be in politics.  The way media influences us as consumers will not change anytime soon if ever, it is within ones self to make the right choices. 
