Materialism is something that keeps growing with time. Over the years influencers and celebrities have gained notariety from the simple basis of the materials they possess. People are often viewed as rich and wealthly due to the materials that they have or show off. Some strive to emulate these influencers and celebrities, while others criticize and are accused of being jealous of these people that obsess over material things. The critics of people who are materialistic typically criticize due to  the lack of financial resources from the people following material things and the false lifestyle materialism presents. 

Everyone loves nice things and the glitz and glamore that comes along with it but the real question is, at what cost is materialism costing us? The typical person that is consumed with materiallism is not financially resourceful in a sense to be able to afford such luxuries. The consequence of this is that people do not save adequately for later years in life and thus place the burden of old age and declining health on the government and other people who pay adequate taxes. The consequence of materialism is really paid for by people who are the critics of materialism, due to their more responsible behavior around their resources and lack of consumption. 

Lifestyle is everything now days and the bigger and flashier the lifestyle the better. Material things presents a lifestyle that is seemingly admireable. Social media has created a platform for people to show their materials and present a lifestyle for others to look on and immulate. But is this true living? More times than not these people that present these lavish lifestyles are false representations of their true life. They present a snapshot in time of their life that is dolled up for the on lookers to admire. More times than not these are false lifestyles portrayed as real and this is where the critics arrive to spit disdain on the false picture being portrayed as a life that is really being lived. 

With materialism on the rise, we must ask ourself will it always be criticized? I personally know people who have their utilities shut off but on social media they are throwing lavish parties with high end name brand clothes on, the critics are right to say this is foolish. It is definitely something that will not go away and at the same time is not sustainable for most people. Materialism will definitely grow in popularity until the next big thing makes the concept of less possessions being more prevalent.
