We are bombarded by images and ads on a daily basis, and these are often meant to influence us in a way that motivates us to buy a product or service that often doesn't live up to the unrealistic expectations set up by the images or our impressions and perceptions of these images. Some of these images or ads involve public figures whom we're expected or assumed to look up to or admire as aspirational people that we ought to behave like or become more like. Some people tune out the ads and don't seem influenced by the images and aren't motivated to buy or become a fan of the person or persons shown in the ads or imagery, while others are prone to becoming customers of the product or service, or a fan of the person or persons who are in the public eye. These images and impressions are too influential in my opinion, particularly on younger people, and lead to issues with body image and self-confidence.

Influencers on Instagram or other social media outlets, especially attractive young women, often portray themselves as beauty and fitness focused, well-traveled, wealthy, popular, in demand for travel to luxury spas or resorts, or modeling at photo shoots or similar personal appearance-related jobs. These influencers regularly promote products such as cosmetics, fitness equipment or services, diet plans or meal plan regimens. They show idealized photoshopped images of themselves, for example, or show before and after photos as inspirational or aspirational means to influence their followers into seeking out similar products or services to attain a similar level of attractiveness, fitness or happiness in their own lives. Often times, the product companies or service providers are paid sponsors who pay the influencer to tout their products or services, which creates a conflict of interest for the influencer who is compelled to make favorable statements about the sponsored items or services in order to make the sponsor happy and keep earning sponsor income, rather than make a geniune review of the product or service. This favorable presentation of the sponsored item or service is misleading for the followers or viewers and preys upon their insecurities about their looks or lifestyles, and then in turn spend money on the item or service in hope of achieving the same experience or outcome to feel better about themselves via improving fitness, improved appearance, better health with the expectation of a similiar "result" as that supposedly achieved by the influencer. When the product or service outcome is more disappointing as is likely based on it being overhyped by the influencer, the follower may feel even worse about themselves for failing to obtain the same highly hoped for or highly expected results, leaving them feeling even more unattractive or unaccepting of themselves. This is detrimental to the followers' self-esteem and self-confidence as well as to their finances, and the cycle may continue if the follower doesn't develop a more cynical and skeptical view of influencers' motivations and how the appearance can be misleading when underlying sponsorship deals are pervading their endorsements and claims of beneficial results.

Some will argue that followers and young people have common sense and can distinguish between appearances of perfection and beauty vs. the reality of photoshopping, sponsored content and influencers that present as happy and beautiful people on social media when in reality they aren't so perfect or as happy go lucky in their daily lives. I argue that this isn't as likely to be learned until adulthood, and, even then, there are numerous adults who are still in need of cultivating a broader awareness of the pervasise effects of images and appearances on social media and advertising in general to reduce the manipulative effects of this content and to be a more discerning consumer. Look at how many people as adults who are deep in credit card debt from shopping online or in person and buying items they don't truly need and who are still seeking to boost their self-esteem and improve their appearance in doing so. Look at the older demographic of consumers who have grown addicted to home shopping channels on TV or the internet as another example of how pervasive this can be in older people as well.

Images and appearances are very influential and hold too much sway over actions by consumers, especially the younger demographic who are most at risk of developing body image issues and feeling down about themselves when faced with seemingly picture perfect people touting the products and services they use on social media platforms. It's a toxic influence that we need to work harder at revealing and freeing ourselves and our future adults from for the betterment of our society.

