   To start off , in this day and age all of us bounded by money , as a way of being able to survive quite literally .
Money has and always has been a currency that has allowed people , throughout history of making purchases for that literal survival.It's a simple fact that if you don't have money that it's less likely to obtain necessary things to enable that survival. There's a reason why people living in poverty aren't even able to live in a way , that isn't ideal that gets even to the point , where food becomes so scarce it eventually leads to starvation . So , that being said modern society with it's materalism , isn't really something that should be seen in a negative manner but rather postively. 
     In the modern era , yes there are times when people in society go extreme with the materialism , that gives a bad look on people who spend their money on vital things. Such an example , of people would be celebrities that become too self-absorbed with their wealth , so much in fact that they spend lots of their cash sometimes even becoming bankrupt , as a result of their need to flex their wealth to others . Another example, are people who aren't even wealthy but still choose to spend on things , that are quite materialistic resulting in them struggling to meet ends meet. However , their counterparts being reasonable people who use their money for the right things ,that either benefit their survival or for others is a existence in our society. These kind of people can possess a large amount of wealth and make donations to charities , or they can even be people with normal paying jobs that still donate to whatever charity they feel comfortable doing so . It's these kind of people in our society that shows that spending money , in a way that allocates to others for a good cause that shows that materalism isn't something that should be looked upon negaatively . Not only that , but at the end of the day it's just the reality that spending equates to our means of being able to purchase food to sastify our hunger which is how we are able to continue living . 
     Therefore , materalism as long as you ignore people in our society that focus , on just using their wealth to flex it on others in a naive and childish way then materialism shouldn't be looked down upon. In fact , accumulating wealth in modern society is necessary for important things to ensure our wellbeing and overall our life to be reassured . With people who are millionares or even billionares , they have been many examples of them sharing their wealth ,they have obtained from their years of work to organizations , to charities , or even directly to people who are in need . By doing so , they are making other people's life so much better just by performing this specific action . So , no materalism isn't a such a bad thing in our society , but only if you focus on the things that matter like our own survival or even for the survival of others via donations and so forth . 
