The question of the century is, 'Are we chasing a virutal reality?.' Many of us do not comprehend how oour everyday activities, exposure, and even run in with family and friends are somewhat touched by our perception of what we believed to be true or not. Perhaps the question should not be, 'are we chasing a virutal reality?' but perhaphs, have we crossed unknowingly a social boundary of not allowing of images and impressions to take hold of our everyday thought process. Do impressions, imagery, and other exposure influence individuals every day basis, in my opinion absolutely. Though, not all exposure has a solemn negative connotations just like it does not have positives ones as well.
The breakdown of what we are exposed daily, is something that is almost impossible to do. When I say breakdown, I am talking about what we are exposed to, regarding social media, ads, ideas, ideals, and overall how we as society should collectively think. As we are moving into a world that is more digitized, I feel it has become harder to become and maintain individuality. The media is a untouchable source that shapes and moves agendas. For example, what was once seen as undesirable with females appereances,now women are spending thousands of dollars to obtain bigger lips or bigger buttocks. most of us are looking like exact copies of each other, which is an indicator, of how much influence imagery has. Imagery itself, can lead many to act, think, and share the same ideals with others. Once we become coscience how we have been guided by what we see, too many times is too late. One can easily go to TIK TOK or Instagram, and scroll through the endless images of girls with big lips, cat eyes, and curvy bodies, molding into the same being. Influencers, have an incredible power to move masses of individuals by simple selfies, or by just sharing couple letters. 
Furthermore, not only does imagery can cause fake uncorrelated threats and untruths, but it also shaping how our youth is moving forward. Though, granted imagery is not only used for negative movements, but it can also reveal untruths and shade light to issues society is too afraid in addressing. Two examples come to ming, the Current situation with Johnny Depp and amber heard. Johnny Depp, being a male we collectively thought he was the abuser in the relationship, but as more evidence is coming to light, it is now know that he in fact was the one being abused. Breaking the chains of what we think as the norm, that only man can be the abusers and not females. I persoanlly, remember seeing Amber herd photos, in disheveled appeareance and automatically thought, how sad her life was, and how such a bright and beautiful girl could of fallen pray to an abuser, little did I know the images I was seeing on social media were painting a false narrative. Additionally, the second example is of the Netflix Cheer show, highlighting how their most positive, loving, member was truly a pedophile that specifically targeted young boys. I too had fallen under the spell or 'jerry' his enthusiam, love and support for his team, wanting and wishing for his suceess, without knowing what really lurked behing the image he was portraying. 
conclusively, it is a double edge sword, in one end, there is chaos, deceit, and the need to manipulate society. society being burden with the need to keep up with itseld with its false and unattainable goals. On the other hand, I see how it can showcase the truth and showcasing the truth of issues. No longer casting a veil over taboo topics. At times, we have lost sight of what is deemed important and essential for human being. The lines have been blurred, I do not believe we live in a world that is black or white, we are in a grey are, that can easiy tip anyone either towards the right direction or towards an abys. The only way I can conlusively describe what imagery and its impressions, is of that of a labyrinth. We are in a maze, wanting to find our way out, making decisions at every turn, during our need to find out own truth, we are exposed to many other believes, ideals, and ideas. When presented with such impressions it is then we either decide, follow what we believe is truth or follow what others are saying is the truth. In current state of society, I believe we are following what others are saying, making it hard to decipher between our own ideas and decisions and the current influences we are constantly being pushed on. Overall, images, impressions, thoughts, ideals, and ideas have a huge influence on society as a whole, it is like a pandemic in itself, getting away from it is hard as its everywhere, surrounding each of us. Its up to us to decided how to protect ourselves. 
