The classic phrase 'don't judge a book by its cover' has been circulating in existence for many years. The warning implicit and explicit in this phrase relates to the prompt about whether images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. The obvious answer is that images and impressions do indeed have too much of an effect on people. Both qualitative and quantitative evidence support this point, and more should be done in society to live out the phrase 'don't judge a book by its cover'.

Qualitative evidence supports the idea that images and impressions have too big an effect on people. Young children grow up glued to social media. College students are enamored by the attraction level of their peers with dating. Older adults envy those who can go on glitz and glamor cruises and trips. Across the lifespan, the power of images and impressions are very important. Marketers and companies take advantage of this norm to maximize their own profits and create a cycle of dependency on images and impressions.

Quantitative evidence also supports the idea that images and impressions have too big an effect on people. Empirical research from psychology, neuroscience, anthropology, and sociology indicates that first impressions are really important. As human beings, we rely on split-second time slices and little information to make global impressions and longlasting opinions of others. These impressions and opinions include ideas about other human beings, as well as affinity or dislike of products, experiences, and lots of different kinds of content. It seems like we are hardwired or glued to have images and impressions make an effect on us. More specifically, research on the 'halo effect' supports this idea. One aspect of the 'halo effect' is that we subscribe positive traits and opinions to anything surrounding a person, object, or idea that we think is really great. For example, Beyonce is a beautiful person and she has a 'halo effect' to a lot of people. Positive ideas about her husband, her music, and products and clothes she endorses are assumed based on her appearance.

On the contrary, it could be argued that images and impressions don't have too much of an effect on us for a few reasons. Obviously, if we are able to explicitly understand that images and impressions affect us, then we should have the capability and metacognition to not be overrun by these factors. In addition, fast vs. slow thinking contributes support this idea. The idea with slow thinking is to use logic rather than intuition to come up with and maintain rational opinions of things from images and impressions. Thus, it is entirely possible that a lot of individuals in society are able to control and overrun the initial overpowering effects of images and impressions. While this idea is provocative and a bit comforting, we know from decades of research and anecdotal experiences that images and impressions are hardwired in us. So while we may be able to override them with slow thinking and rational logic, the fact that we need to do so in the first place shows the power of images and impressions.

Overall, images and impressions have too much of an effect on people as illustrated with qualititative and quantitative factors. Typical phrases in our lexicon like 'don't judge a book by it's cover' support this idea as well. Understanding the pros and cons of images and impressions may help us as individuals and as a society generate better ways of thinking, communicating, and forming and maintaining opinions.
