All over the world  people having been trying to discover the key to happiness. Is happiness more about focusing on oneself or focuisng on others? Pursuing and conquering your personal goals can bring some happiness but I beleive that it is not a happiness that lasts. I think that true happiness comes from helping and focusing on others.

Pursuing ones personal dreams and goals can lead to a feeling of accomplishment, which can have a postive impact on happiness. But I believe that doing this creates a never ending chase. Once we accomplish something we might feel happy for a little but then it fades. After it fades we crave happiness again so we go on and pursue something else. Also, when we can not reach our own dreams and personal goals this does not cause happiness. There are goals and dreams that people can never reach which can lead to people feeling unworhty and meaningless. There is nothing wrong with chasing happiness through pursuing dreams and personal goals but it could become a selfish pursuit. When we care so much about our own goals sometimes we can hurt others to accomplish them.  It could make you happy at first but I believe that towards the end of our life many  people regret how they treated people. Some people even put their goals over family and friends.

I beleive the best way to experience long lasting happiness is through helping others. Focusing on the happiness of others or the improvement of humanity. I think one of the reasons is that more than one perosn is impacted. When we pursue our own goals, we are only focusing on ourselves. When we focus on others it makes us happy as well others. There are more people being impacted, which I believe creates a snowball effect and people pay it foward. Seeing someone who does not have food or clothing for example. When you help them with the necessities they need and the happiness it creates in thier lifes, you can not help but feel happy. It creates a feeling you can not get doing anything else.

I believe that there are many ways to experience happiness. But I believe the best way to experience long lasting happiness is to help others. Creating a world that everyone has a chance to experience some happiness.
