There is a saying "It's not about winning or losing but it's about how you play the game".  Life is a a game that everyone must understand the rules in order to be successful. There are numerous strateiges and tips on how one can be successful iin life. Many arguments have been offered on which approach is more effective. People achieve more success by cooperation than by competition.

Cooperation breeds success and unity that has a long-lasting impact. Every individual is unique and different in how they solve problems, interpret information, and utilize resources. Not one individual is an expert in every step. However, when individuals work together to solve a problem it creates more success for the good of the group and each member individually. Cooperation results in accomplishments that are more permanent than competition. The process itself of cooperating with other individuals creates lessons and experiences that will be usefull for some other aspect of life. Cooperation also leads to a successful outcomes that are richer and broader.The community, as a whole, benefits from cooperation. Leaders can still emerge using this model but it also creates a feeling that everyone has value.

In constrast, competition breeds short-term successes. Competition is focused on proving to others that one is superior and the best at the task. It creates a hierarchy where if an individual is successful at a task that allows inferences that the individual is better than others. For short, non-consequential tasks such as a 100-yard sprint, competition is fine. This form of competition is sometimes referred to as healthy competition. It is true that healthy competition can encourage everyone to try their hardest on every attempt such as in sprint race. However, more consequential tasks such as in the workplace of societal standing respond negatively to competition. One individual undoubtedly wins but simulataneously, feelings of rage, anger, disappointment and depression, may also emerge amongst all participants. These feelings are far more detrimental than the success of winning. Unfortunately, these occurrences have increased in our society as evidenced by the increase in mental health needs. Our current society was based on competition and has fostered a system of inequities that remains in every facet of our lives.

If individuals lived on individual planets there would be no need for competition. Everyone could be focused on their own success and the manner in which they chose to do so. However, once individuals are placed together it is essential that individuals work together for the community to thrive. Refusing to do so only leads to chaos and destruction. This is why cooperation leads to more sustainable success than competition. Individuals can achieve more and with greater efficiency by working cooperatively rather than against each other in competition.
