An Essay on Happiness

When I was young I  would sit and look at the Sears toy catalog and I would dream about all the wonderful toys we couldn't afford. I would put my mind to work on how I would obtain that wonderful "thing" in the catolog. Oh how I wanted it! I would cut lawns, pick up aluminum cans, do jobs for my dad, deliver papers, etc. And then - the wonderful day would arrive! I would have enough money and off to the store we would go. Success! Oh what joy! I was happy for a short time - but it never lasted. The happiness was so fleeting.  I was always onto something else. 

Based on a liftime of learning I would argue that happines focused on the self and personal goals will never last. True happiness can only come from going beyond yourself thru helping others, your community, and society at large. This focus can bring true and lasting happines.

In support of this argument here are a few salient points:

1) I have a belief in GOD and as part of that belief system is a view lens that man's time on earth is fleeting and his focus should be on others and not himself.

2) There  are pleny of  wealthy and/or succesful  people in society that have accomplished many personal goals or achieved great wealth and fame yet they are (or were) never satisfied. You oftern hear them talk of a lifetime of sadness, broken relationships and lack of fullfilment.  I think it was J. Paul Getty (one of the the world's richest men at the time) when asked how much more money he needed to be truly happy  his answer was "just a little more".

3) There is something deeply spiritual an intrensically satisfying in helping others. Who doesn't leave a volunteer event, or helping a neighbor without some amount of satisfcation. Even when the task can be difficult and challenging I think there is something deep down in our soul that craves this reward. I think it is intate in our human DNA to want to help others.

4) Helping others brings connections and friendships which deepen and enrich our lives. Some of my most important friendships have come through connecting with and helping others. Who makes friends when you are focused on only yourself. These friendships are typically fleeting. 

Some may say that focusing on others is a mistake and that one should be true to thy self. There is certainly a grain of truth here - but can anyone who is totally focused only their own happiness truely be happy in the deepest and most spritial sense? I don't think so. I would challenge the reader to identify anyone who is both truly devoted only to themselves and their personal goals and at the same time be truly happy. I would argue that this person doesn't exist. Anyone who pretends that they are is most likely lieing. 

With that said I don't think there is anything wrong with personal goals and attainment. Many good things can come from this - education, personal betterment, a career, wealth, etc. But I would submit again that this does bring true and lasting happiness.

In summary the route to true happines is in the helping of others and not in the self. This is a life guidepost that we should all embrace.
