     Materialism is the backbone of pursuit. Ever since the dawn of humans, and indepedant thought, the desire to have certain objects for the sake of happiness, has and always will be a noble goal in my opinion. Wanting more for oneself is not to be looked down upon. However, how you acheive your possessions is where there will be some matter of disagreement. But one cannot deny, that in this pursuit for cherished possessions, that humans have achieved great progress for such prized materials. Why do you ask? Because in addition to happiness, they make our lives better and give us (humans) more meaning to our daily lives.

     The desire for the materialistic promotes growth within any given society. And with growth comes progress. I truly believe we as a society would not be where we are today if it werent for this attitude towards certain possessions. These objects grants humans, status, accomplishments/ trophies, and a overall more pleasurable existence. They help us strive to want more for ourselves and tackle challenges that humans would otherwise turn away from if there were no valuble possessions to gain from it. Entire civilizations have been toppled because of such things much like "holy" artifacts and lands. Even if these objects dont end up giving us the level of happiness we had hoped when aquiring them, the belief that any material CAN give is a great sense of satisfaction makes them worth pursuing.

    And yes, while i do agree that a fair amount of negativity can come from materialism, such as harming another person or entire groups of people for personal gain of an item, society would not be moving foward at the rate it has if it wasnt for materialism. Because without it, many of us would not see any point to move foward with our own lives if there was nothing to work towards om a day to day basis such as a car, a flashy entertainment system, jewerly that make others fawn over us. And once we get "it", we realize and became bored with, we then find another object to attain, whether it'd be for ourselves or another person, thus continuing this cycle of pursuit/ moving foward which in turn promotes manfacturers to make better materials for a seemingly endless cycle of goals to work towards.

    As ive stated earlier, it is my strong belief that materialism in itself is NOT the problem. However, what is an issue is what an individual does to attain it (stealing/ cheating/ lying/ murdering). And that is something that will vary from person to person.
