In many walks of life competition is encouraged over cooperation. Both socially and economically, a strong competitor is viewed as someone who is worthy of both praise and rewards. But while competition is healthy in some contexts, it can be extremely detrimental in others. In light of this, one should know when to cooperate, as cooperation helps people reach their goals more often.

Cooperation is extremely important to human survival. Humans have been getting by with cooperation since the dawn of humanity. For example, in historically agrarian societies,  people would need to work together to harvest crops during the harvest season.  It would be almost impossible to accomplish this task as an individual who was competing with his or her fellow crop harvesters. In a more contemporary example, university students who form study groups with their fellow classmates are more likely to succeed in a class than an individual trying to learn by themselves. Sure, a lone student may be able to get high marks on their own, and many do. But the task of acquiring new information is remarkably easier when one is both giving and receiving information about what they do and don't know. 

Some will say that competition helps get more done. But while competition lets people work harder and faster, it also induces more stress. People who are constantly in competition with others are almost always on edge, because they begin to think that life is a zero-sum game. This leads to faster burnout. It is unhealthy to always be in competition mode all the time. When people learn to cooperate, they learn to release a lot of stress, because they begin to understand that they are not working alone and have support. 

In conclusion, cooperation is a more effective method to employ when trying to accomplish a task. It allows a person to share some of the burden of completing a task, while also relieving the burden on others. Cooperation has been shown time and again, since the birth of the human species, to be more beneficial to people. People acheive more when they, and by large, society, work together. 
