Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistc. There are many factors that go into this view point, and many of them are rooted in outdated ideas. For instance, the idea of having "too much stuff" or a focus on materialistc items was likely introduced during a period of time when only the weathly could have more than their basic needs. While this is still the case, for example look at people like the Kardashians, they have a plethora of items many of which i can only assume are rarely, if ever used. However, many more people have access to more things than ever before. Additionally, sociey is starting to shift into a mindset of more intentionality, while people still may be owning more items than they necessarily need, many people are buying items that they really want, or with the intenion to use them multiple times. Lastly, materialism is becoming increasily difficult to avoid, espeically in the technological and stressful world we live in today. 

It is without a doubt that many people own far too many things, people constantly complain about having too much clutter and this is an issue that could be easily fixed by transitoning away from material items. This viewpoint is limited however, in that day after day people are faced with immense amounts of items, specifically being marketed to them, apps and websites use peoples personal information to target ads and influence people into buying more things. In many ways, being more materialistic is a product of good marketing and huge coroprations rather than the individual. Perhaps the criticim should be placed on how society allows external, for-profit businesses to have such a strong hold over their spending. 

While many people are buying more, a signficant number of people are buying with more intentionality. For myself, I know this is a 50-50 split on saving money, by buying less and buying things that I actually need and will use, and a matter of being more environmentally concious. Many people are making a shift towards more sustainable practices, and are acquiring more items, but things that have a longer "shelf life", are of higher quality, and that make more sense with their lifestyle. With the shift towards more sustainable shopping, communties have popped up in order to reduce the amount of items sent to landfills. Popular "Buy Nothing" groups are showing up in cities in order for people to give away and share materials so that they will not end up in landfills. While people may be remaining materialistic, at the same time they are integrating ways to reduce waste, or give these items second lives, a practice that was not common several decades ago. Materialsm can lead to more postive practices and yet the main connotation of materialism is negative. 

Finally, as mentioned earlier, corporations make it uncomfortably easy to be marketed to. Psychological tactics are constantly being used to influence people into buying more and buying often. It is hard to place blame on individuals when teams of researchers and professionals are developing ways to strategically and subconciously get people to spend more, having specific deals that influence people to buy more or buy things they dont need, structuring store to get people to walk though it in a specific order, etc. People today are focused with constant, intense stressors; covid-19, monkeypox, police violence, inflation, racism, poverty, the list could go on and on. People are contantly being bombarded by negative and heavy news and information and are expceted to continue on with their lives, tasks and days as normal. 

Due to these contant stressors, people are looking for any and every source of positiveity and happiness they can get to try to balance their everyday lives. For many people this comes in the form of material items. When I think of the opposite of materials, I think of experiences, but with inflation and pricing the way it is now, at least in the US, experiences feel much less attainable, and therefore people are turning more and more towards physcial items as a way to cope. Not to mention that there are very few places people can go nowadays that dont require one to spend money on at least something. 

All in all, materialism is not the best thing, but it can lead to positive changes and community building. There are external forces well beyond the individuals control that are influencing people to spend money without them even realizing it. While there are many ways that materialism can be negative, it is hard to criticize sociey as a whole when you consider all the factors that may be influcing people's behaviors. 

