       Many people may believe that competition is the only way to push forward above the rest but cooperation is a powerful tool that many undermine. Cooperation brings many minds together towards one task, these tasks can get completed quicker leaving more time for other tasks while competition limits these tasks to one brain and create a tense environment.
       When working together as a team, many more ideas can be thrown around. One person's brain power versus a multidude of people's will always bear more reward than risk. When one person is doing a project alone there is a greater risk for there to be a choke point in advancement. For example, when an artist or author gets art/writers block it is often that they go to others (ex. their followers) for ideas on what to create next. In the workplace, if there is a project in the works, a constant flow of ideas will bear better results than one person doing it alone. 
        Cooperating also leads to tasks getting done faster. As an example imagine water needs to be transported a short distance and the only tool available is one bucket. It would be easier to create a line of people to pass the water from one person to another until it reaches the new sport, hand it back, and repeat than to have one person walking back and forth. In the workplace this is still true. If there is one project that needs to be completed multiple people can work together on different areas that need to be completed in order to complete it in the most efficent time.
       Some may argue that without competition ther will be no drive to succeed. Competition brings out the need to be better in result pushing youself forward. However competition is not the only way to push people to succeed. Often times, people do not like to dissapoint the people around them. When working in a group, people are still likely to succeed and push themselves to satisfy the need of not dissapointing. Also, when working together you need to do more to stand out, furthering the drive to do better. 
       Competition in the work place can also lead to tense and unwelcoming enviroments. On the otherhand, cooperation can lead to a more relaxed and welcoming environment. If someone is on edge in the workplace, it is more likely that they will be less efficient as it's harder to focus on a task if always on edge. It would be more enjoyable to go into work and feel welcomed than to go in expecting a tense, unfriendly environment.
       In conclusion, cooperation leads to higher success. Competition leads to choke points in advancement and unfriendly environments. Cooperation leads to people pushing themselves to not dissapoint, work being done faster, multiple minds coming together and better workplace environments. More complex achievements can be made when working together as more ideas can be explored, more resources can be looked at and it's faster to complete a single task. 
