In a modern society that emphasisizes independence and individuality over collectivism and community, the value of collabortation is often overlooked. Personal successes are frequently highlighted while team efforts are given less attention. More people would choose being the sole recipient of praise and glory for a good project as opposed to sharing the glory for a better one. In an effort to set oneself apart from the majority, many take the route of competition and prioritize a desire to be the "best" while overlooking the benefits of collaboration. While there are many benefits to healthy rivalries and a reasonably competitive edge, lasting success is more often achieved through cooperation and collective effort. 

The greatest successes of humanity can be attributed to collaboration. The primary factor in humans becoming the dominant species of our planet has been our ability to collaborate and pass the efforts of that collaboration throughout generations. Our greatest innovations have evolved from centuries of this collective knowledge and we continue to build upon them for the betterment of society. When we think of those that are hailed for their great accomplishments, a common factor that is often overlooked is the impact of those that aided them in their success. Rarely are great things accomplished solely by the works of a single individual and more often than not, they are aided by several people along their path to greatness. 

Some may argue that more can be achieved by personal drive and a desire to surpass competing forces, but is that external force not its own form of collaboration. If your drive to succeed derives from knowing that others are working towards the same goal, are you not being influenced by them and in turn, unknowingly collaborating with those you view as your competition? One of the greatest feats of humanity, the moon landing, happened as a result of competition amongst countries to be "the first" but despite one country taking the glory, it is viewed as a shared achievement for all humans. Even the famous quote associated with the moon-landing supports this, referring to the feat as an accomplishment for all of mankind. The moon-landing itself would not have been possible had it not been for the cooperation of those that made it possible, despite the desire to achieve the goal being the result of competiton. A lot can be accomplished by engaging in competition, but much more is possible when we combine our efforts in the name of cooperation for the greater good.
