These days with the prevalancy of social media, much more now than in the past, images and impressions have too much of an effect on people in general.  

On the other hand, quite often people with no real value to the world, also known as oxegyn theives (my new favorite term), save their attractiveness and charisma can convince and mind numbingly amount of people of the value of their thoughts even though they really haven't had an original thought in their entire life.  An example would be to have a young and attractive actor selling makeup or skin products that are advertised at making you more attractive.  They're already hot to begin with an obviously don't need any outside help, aside from the genetics their parents passed on to them, yet they would lead the average looking person to believe that purchasing those products could make them appear as attractive as the actors selling them.

By the same token, I have learned over the years when purchasing new items for the first time, to not trust the packaging it comes in or the explanation or advertising that comes with it.  It seems everyone wants to sell you something and have no problems with dishonest practices if it means you may buy the product at least once, especially if they're able to retain your credit card information for automatic future billings, whether you want them or not.  For example, these days when I am about to make a purchase of a new product I have to go offsite for research and reviews, not just looking at the paid yelp or consumer reviews, but reviews from actual people on message boards that have had either good or poor luck with the product.

Having said that, there is some good that has come out of social media advertising.  More often than not, in these platforms one can see an average person with average looks and abilities becoming famous or significant in society because of the views or their ability to speak their views in a way that people can understand and relate to.

For the longest time we have lived in a society where beauty is key.  Having beautiful, or attractive and charesmatic individuals harking various wares has increased profits, and by the same token these individuals tend to be believed more when they speak, even if they aren't speaking the truth.

There have been times when good people have made poor decisions or mistakes in a moment of time and are then judged poorly for quite sometime based on those mistakes.  Even if they are the most qualified individual capable of speaking from experience on any given subject, peoples impressions or perceptions can changed based on that mistake or moment of poor judgement and while this individual may be the only one speaking the truth, if the public now has a bad or poor impression of them they simply won't be in a frame of mind to listen, pay attention or believe them.  Which would be  a shame.

