I have been assigned to write on the subject of happiness.  This is a very broad topic, but I will do my best. 

I feel that happiness can come in many forms.  We feel happy when we pass a test in school, when we play with a pet or when we complete a job that has been hanging over our heads for a while.  Happiness isn't just eatting cake and ice cream.  I feel that happiness is more complex than that.  I feel that true happiness involves others instead of just ourselves.
I am happy when I spend time with my family.  Currently I am the happiest when spending time with my 2 year old grandson.  Seeing the world through the wonderment in his eyes, brings me much happiness.  But it also brings happiness to him.  It is a sharred happiness, which I feel is the best kind.
  
Getting together to share a meal with long time friends brings happiness to everyone in the group.  This happiness multiplied many times over and sharred amoung all the parties involved.  Attending a wedding brings happiness of differing degrees to everyone involved.  The bride and groom have an extreme happiness, the parents have a proud happiness, those attending as guests have a sharred happiness with the families involved, and the officient has happiness for joining the couple in their love.  Many types of happiness and none are totally identical.  We each feel happiness in our own unique way.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Happiness brings me a warm feeling in my body and in my heart.  A feeling of pleasure, of love, of accomplishment, of completeness.  Whatever happiness truely is, mankind is fortunate to have it among our emotions.  Happiness may actually be the purpose in our lives.  We work to earn money so we can afford to live and be happy.  We purchase things to make our lives better and make us happy.  We visit people to share our lives and make everyone happy.  Happiness is all around us just waiting for us to grab it and be happy!                                 
