Materialism is the concept of people placing priority on possessions or belongings.  This concept is a concept that is longstanding.  There are different conceptions about materialism.  Most paramount, materialism is identified as the notion of human beings having ownership and readily being able to, and also desiring, to acquire more belongings.  I argue, materialism is most certainly positive and necessary.

Materialism is a necessity in society.  There are many reasons why materialism is a good and also needed.  Firstly, for instance, the desire to secure possessions relates directly to self worth.  That is to say, when people think about items which they want to own, people are engaging in an important process of identifying their likes.  Contrarily, some have argued that materialism has caused problems, because some have placed too much attention on possessions.  However, for an individual to be able to proactively consider how acquiring goods can add to one's life and overall trajectory, that means that the person is engaging in an act of value counting of oneself.  That means, materialism aids in a person being able to count himself or herself  in immensely positive respect.  Secondly, a want to own things, speaks to the ability for people to make and attain goals.  For example, one's want for a good and aim to acquire the good, means that one engages in planning.  Contrarily, some arguments have been raised about unrealistic expectations as a result of some thinking about trying to get material possessions.  However, in doing so, that is, the planning entails that the person then adhere to a specified set of conditions for the purpose of ensuring that one will acquire the good.  For instance, an individual may desire to have a larger home or a new television, and thus would make a plan to realize the aim, by working more hours and/or saving more money.  Once the good is acquired through the hard work and goal attainment, that is evident that the material possession, and materialism, in general, is both pivotal and central to the lives of people.  Thirdly, materialism is viewed as positive and necessary, in terms of thinking about the value which people tend to place on themselves and their belongings.  That is to say, people do derive some aspects of their identity from their material possessions.  People enjoy owning nice things, and nice things do serve as an indication of personality, character,  and social mobility.  Hence, materialism is a concept which is a good and necessary concept.


