Objects and appearences have an effect on people way more than it should. Kids are learning nowadays that twerking on tiktok is what will make them happy and fulfilled. Grown adults lean towards political candidates just because they look the part better than another candidate or because they say blue or red is their favourite color. It's becoming more rare that people actually do their research on and deeply consider what they support or the decisions they make. I believe that the rise in social media and intentional spread of misinformation by the government is to blame for this.

If you look at some of the groups that have the strongest control over social influence, and I mean really dig into their values and the actuall logic behind their statements, you'll find often they're riddled with points that really contradict eachother and alot of hypocracy. Take the BLM or LGBTQ movement for example. Both groups claim that their primary focus is to promote equallity and acceptence, yet if you disagree with them in almost any way shape or form, they'll call you a racist or a bigot. The people at the top of BLM claim they started the movement to benifet black people, yet the only benifet that seems to have occured is those same people have millions of dollars to buy houses and boats with while not a single thing for black people in general has really been accomplished other than an increase of civil unrest and divisineness. In regards to the LGBTQ movement, they do and say everything under the guise of love and acceptance, yet if you present an opinion such as "I personally don't believe that trans women are actually women." they'll automatically jump to an extreme like calling you a bigot or transphobic and not legitamately try to negate your opinon. So much for love and acceptance. Alot of people, even though they see these things won't acknowledge them, even if they agree in the slightest because of the extreme response that they would recieve and how it would make them look.

Appearance has become so important to people, that, in order not to appear as an enemy, 
they will ignore certain things even if those things are legitamate concerns. Telling kids that trying to make it on tik tok is not productive to society or exposing to people the lies, falsities and hypocracy within certain idealogical beliefs is very taboo these days because people are more focused on how they look to others, rather than the content of whats behind the way they look or their actual abilities.


