Images and impressions in mainstream media have far more effects than the average person realizes or understands, and I believe society in general should be far more skeptical of what they see on TV and social media.

Unfortunately, media companies continue to post misleading information in their ads and creative content, and more and more people are being misinformed and disinformed about the people and products around them.  

When I was growing up, I remember learning that Coca-Cola had experimented with subliminally putting in ads for Coke and popcorn in movie theaters, and they experienced an increase in sales when this image was presented to them during the movie.  The problem is that the audience didn't know they were being advertised to and never consciously saw the ad.  

There may be "rules" or "regulations" about what media companies can and can't post to their audience, but we should also realize that the "elite" have ways of bending the rules, and the people who are subjected to these types of deceptive and manipulative marketing tactics are the victims I am concerned about.

I believe much more research, education and transparency is needed when it comes to what media companies can claim in their advertisements and overally their content in general.  Personally, I believe society at large should be throwing their cable boxes away.  There are tons and tons of interesting content creators who are posting honest, authentic, wise and clever content, and they are sharing opinions that matter.  

My hope is that society at large will begin to realize that the human brain is much more complicated and powerful than we've been led to believe.  If subliminal messages do not have an effect on people, then why are they continuously being inserted into the media being consumed by the masses?

Perhaps I sound like a "conspiracy theorist" when I find subliminal messages and devilish-looking creatures when watching mainstream media and going frame by frame, but I would choose the hard truth over a comfortable lie every time.
