Everywhere is the world people complain about the weather. Irregardless of the location, people will always find a reason to be unhappy. Spending your life trying to make others happy is a recipe for disappointment. People are more likely to happy if they focus on themselves because it is impossible to please everyone, you can never know what others are thinking, and happiness comes from internal sources not external. 

Firstly, people are hard to please. It is hard to ensure everyone elses happiness. People's desires often conflict with one anothers, they go against their own self interest, and they change frequently. If you base your happiness off of the fickle opinions of others then your happiness will fluctuate as their mood changes. Secondly, you never truly know what other people are thinking. No man is an island, yes, but the only experience we can understand is our own. As much as we like to think that we can understand what others are thinking, we can't. If you try to base your happiness of the happiness of others, you won't be able to ensure that they are happy at all. Predicting what will make others happy all the time is an impossible task. It's hard to find ways to make and ensure that they are happy because you are not them. It's better to turn inwards for your happiness. It is an internal experience. Finally, happiness comes from focusing on personal goals, improving yourself. Even if you are attempting to improve others lives to make your own better, that is still a personal goal that you have set. No matter what you do, we set goals for ourselves and try to reach them. These goals can be physical objects, new skills, or they can even be improving the lives of those around us. All of these are personal goals that worked to acheive, bring happiness. And the best part is that this happiness depends solely on you. If you find that you are not happy, you have the power to reset and reflect on your personal goals. If you focus on other people, you cannot change what makes them happy. 

In conclusion, we cannot base our own happiness on that of others. Doing so is a recipe for a rollercoaster ride of unhappiness and emotions.  We cannot predict the happiness of others and so people are more likely to be happy if they focus on personal goals. This is because people are hard to please and hard to read. It's better to foucs on ourselves and draw happiness from that. After all, the only person we can really control is ourselves. We control our own happiness.

