Competitiveness can be highly valued in star players. In many cases, competitions can be favored pleasurable to watch and experience when there are players who are able to competitively compete against one another. However, in many cases, success would fall short without cooperation. A player's cooperation to team plays, members, and coaching all contribute to one's sucess in the field. Cooperation trumps competition in achieving success as shown through stories of athletes and businessmen.

A well known examples using athletes would be basketball players. Lebron James and Steph Curry would not be able to achieve such fame and status in their career without cooperating with their team. Team members are heavily valued based on their strategic performance and ability to overcome plays made by the opposing team. In many cases, having multiple star players on a team would not mean success unless each member learns to play with one another. in other words, cooperation with one another is the ability to co-play together. This in turn, allows for a team to successfully fight against the opposing team's tactics. The late Kobe Bryant would not have been able to achieve such high success rates without his amazing ability to be a team player. 

In a more common outlook, entrepreneurs with successful businesses all follow the rules of cooperation in the field. Businesses all work together. Not one business works alone to achieve its success. In order for deals, investments and even customers to start flowing in, businessmen must learn to cooperative with those they are working with. They must learn to understand the competition around them and focus the successes and failures to achieve more. To do this, entrepreneurs learn to work together with their team to determine the best course of action. Whether it means cooperating with a financial advisor or managers of different department, every individual along this road to success is a factor that can either hinder or help them achieve their accomplishments. Without the joint effort of a team, it would be hard to achieve lasting success in the workforce.

Some may argue a person's success is through trial and error coming from experiences in competitions. Intense rivalry at play can drive people to victories that would possibly fall short. However, in instances such as sports and careers, competition is a playground for players to learn how to cooperate with one another. It is a mean to understanding how to work towards such accomplishments. A great example would be the Laker team of 2022. They did not make the playoffs even with five star players on the team. Having experienced numerous victories from competitions in the past, it should have given them the upper hand in going to playoffs this season. However, because they lacked team play, their ability to cooperative with one another fell short in a team sport. As a result, they lost the chance to be at playoffs. Many business who were not able to sign deals with oher businesses also fell short during the pandemic and were forced to close. Many local stores who combined efforts together to stay financially afloat were able to come out of the pandemic and start thriving again. 

In retrospect, competition can help people achieve more success. Competition creates a means for rivalry that drives people to improve skills or ideas. In this world, intrapersonal communication is important for one's success. Without the help and advise from others, individuals will struggle significantly to achieve greatness. In a world where many achievements are heavily influenced by those around, learning how to work together is shown to be more important than endless amounts of competition. Cooperation can help one achieve success if done properly. Therefore, it is more beneficial to understand the power of cooperation in order to achieve success. 
