What makes you happy? Is it when you finish a task at work that took ever so long to complete? Or is it when you see the smiling face of a child on Christmas morning? For many, it's the latter. For some, it's the former. Should it be one or the other? Not necessarily. However, one is more successful at producing happy individuals than the other. Which is it, you ask? Let's dive a bit deeper into that.

When someone does their job well and achieves their goals, what happens? They get congratulated and appreciated at work; maybe even get a raise! However, what follows that short window of happiness is another task, sometimes even more difficult than the original. After all, you completed your first task, so you are obviously ready for something more challenging. Suddenly, that happiness turns into stress and/or sadness. The same thing happens when you achieve your goals in life. You might be happy in the moment you achieve them, but what happens next? You suddenly feel directionless. With no goal to chase, what is the point of trying? And if your goal is never achievable, why put in the effort? Was accomplishing your goal really bringing you happiness, or did it just take away your sense of purpose?

Compare that to the happiness gained via others. If you make someone else happy, what comes next? That individual doesn't suddenly become unhappy, and you aren't suddenly unable to make others happy. You can continue to make others happy. You don't have to stay and make the same person happy over and over. Rather, you can go and make other people happy over and over. There is no limit to making others happy, like there is to achieving a goal. And, typically, making others happy leads to others wanting to make you happy. 

Happiness is contagious, and frankly, multiplicative. The more happy people that come together, the happier the atmosphere becomes. Choosing happiness via giving others happiness gives the most benefit as a whole, and honestly is the less selfish of the two options. Achieving your goal benefits only yourself in most situations, whereas making someone else happy always benefits a minimum of two individuals: yourself and the person who is made happy. Given this information, it seems pretty clear that the happiness of others is going to give you the most happiness rather than achieving your goals. Bringing joy and happiness to others has no end in sight. Achieving goals does.

With this information, I instruct you to go out and bring happiness to others, whether it be in your neighborhood, online communities, families, or wherever. Happiness given is happiness gained, and we could all do with a little more of that, don't you think?
