We see so much around us in life that gives us a false sense of reality. In advertising, on social media and in the actions of other people, we do not get an accurate picture that clearly relates to what life is actually like. With so much fakeness in our midst, it is often challenging to navigate the world with clarity. All the images weigh heavily on our hearts and on our minds, and we are inundated so much that imagery has too big of an impact on us.

Advertising has long been a form of bending reality. We see images of happy people who are using products and portraying a role to make us want to purchase a product that offers the perception of a better lifestyle. However, what is seen in an advertisement has no real bearing on actual life. We must judge on our own what life is like.

Social media is a more recent form of imagery that bends the truth about reality. People post pictures of living their "best life," and that creates FOMO, known as "fear of missing out." We see people with perfect bodies, much like advertising before social media, and of people who are wealthy, healthy and wise. It's more rare that people share reality, including images of sadness, loss, struggle and grief.

The longest-standing form of images that paint a false picture of the world around us is in the actions of real people we encounter. Friends, family members and strangers alike act in certain ways that show us a particular portrait of life. Yet, reality is often much different than what is said and done. People do not always show their "true colors" in honest fashion.

The things we see can lead to many troubles for us. Individuals among us may battle anxiety, depression or other forms of mental illness due to the impressions we take from all the images passing our minds. We can also project our feelings through actions, as imagery can lead us to take certain behaviors as a means of response. That might mean we drink, use drugs or conduct dangerous activities due to what we've seen others do on television, on the internet or in real life.

Yes, there's a certain "alternate" reality to the impressions we get from all the perfectness of ads, social media and in-person interactions. It can be argued that these are just as real as what's inside. They affect us just the same. It is debatable that images and impressions have always co-existed with humans and that it is our job as sentient beings to learn to live successfully alongside them. However, the quantity of such imagery has increased so much that it can be overwhelming.

All around us exist images that leave lasting impressions on us. They can lead to many possible reactions in us, including negatives and even some positives. It is up to each individual person to decide how to interpret and react to such imagery. There are too many factors vying for our attention, but they are not going away. So each of us must decide how we respond to all these stimuli.
