Is the pursuit of wealth to be admired or looked upon with disdain? Has our modern society taken it's cue from nature or has it delved to deeply into the shallow needs of materialistic things? I would argue that it has indeed become to materialistic and deserves to be critized for doing so.

When you look around you see the culmination of our progress as a society. It is displayed in the buildings and infrastructure that is now super imposed upon the natural landscape, sometimes obliterating it from view. This is a result of putting materialistic pursuits above all else. We have to move quickly to get to work so we need the highways and railways. We want to have the latest items and also want them to arrive quickly. This consumerism is a result of a materialistic society that creates the demand for plastic packaging and excess waste. We pursue our materialistic goals without much regard for nature and for our own wellbeing even. If we were less materialistic we just might be able to reduce our footprint upon the natural world and even enjoy and enrich our own lives in much deeper ways.

One might say that this is just the natural evolution of man. That it is only human nature to bend our environment to our will and to strive for more. I would agree that we do to an extint possess this drive to explore and create. However, I do not believe that it has to be in a way that ignores the value of preserving nature or the value of our time away from work. It is hard to fathom how destructive our materialistic ways are but all we have to do is look at the results. The littered roadways, destroyed habitats, pollution, and garbabge piles in the ocean are all significant signs of the harm it has done. These are all the byproduct of materialism.

In conclusion, we deserve to be critized for playing a part in a materialistic society because of the harm it does. Everyone needs to be  concious of their materialistic behavior and do their part in changing our society for the better. After all the things that makes us the happiest are not products but experiences and time with the people we love and care about. The damage can not be undone overnight but we can shape a future that begins the process of change. Perhaps in the future our modern society will be judged not only for our recklessness but also recognized for the actions we took to remedy what we had created. 
