I do not personally believe in either of these stances exclusively. Working towards personal goals has the capacity to increase feelings of happiness for some people, but that feeling happens in different time spans for different people. Some are most happy when they initiate a task while others feel happiness only while in the middle of the work of it or even only after a task or goal has been completed. In all three scenarios, the happiness feeling itself is somehwat fleeting. It is merely a dopamine response that follows the behavior. 

Servitude towards others can also provide a sense of happiness for some. However, much like accomplishing a goal for oneself, this also in some ways becomes just like another personal goal (the personal goal of helping someone else so that you feel better about yourself). I think when serving others, there's the added bonus of receiving external praise if a good job was done, which can add to the feeling of happiness. However, similarly, the sensation is only fleeting and in both of these contexts the person is depending on more personal goals or tasks for others to maintain their feeling of happiness. Speaking in purely a binary fashion, this approach may be slightly better, but not by much. 

What is not spoken of enough about is the attitude of happiness as a state of mind, rather than a feeling. What I mean by that is that one must be "happy" first and then pursue their personal goals or serve others' needs instead of the other way around. This means finding contentment with oneself and one's place in the world and then going on with their behaviors, bringing that sense of happiness with them. Every major religion describes this concept in different words than this (i.e., Nirvana, "loving the Lord your God," etc.), but the point stands one must "be" happy first, then try to serve the world around them, rather than chase the high of our brain's reward system, if one wants to have longstanding sense of happiness in their life. 

