     Happiness is an emotion or feeling that we experience, it brings joy as well as other positive emotions along with it. Happiness as an emotion can be achieved through various activities such as completing a task, seeing a beloved friend or family member, helping someone accomplish a goal/task of thiers, it doesnt neccessarily come from furthering one's goals/ambitions nor solely acting on the accomplishment of other's goals.
I'll refer back to an experience of mine i had some years back, my elder sibling, a sister to be specific, had some issues with her document.
She was to make a survey on how people responded to the effects of COVID-19 in thier marital, personal, social and work life, she struggled with finding a suitable platform to present her survey, preparing her questions in an engaging format and needed help in these areas. Along the line she requested my help in solving these problems as i am more tech savvy than she is. I was able to help her in ways she didnt think of, as i shared the survey with my immediate friends after making some needed changes so we could get a response on the performance of the survey, she was so happy that although i think of myself as someone that is hard to please, i felt pleased with myself and that little activity was able to generate a bit of happiness for me
    On the other hand, i've also derived happiness from personal endeavours of mine that i felt were really difficult but i was able to perform them regardless of thier difficulty. I will also use an experience of mine to illustrate in this scenario. Back in my first 1st year at University, i wasnt a high performing student but i was really happy with myself when i was able to come out as the best student in all the ICT related courses we took. it was pleasing to me as this helped me re-iddentify with the fact that although i may not be as smart, intelligent as many individuals out there, if i put in the effort in achieving something, i can exceed even those with better natural capabilities than me. This was a satisfying experience and has served as a long term source of happiness everytime i think about it.
     With these experiences i've talked about, you can see that happiness can both be achieved by furthering one's personal goals and also by focusing on helping other's achieve happiness, i'll also like to say that deriving happiness from one's personal goals may be accomplishing and satisfying but it isnt something that occurs as frequent as one may expect, it also doesn't become tangible because most humans have a variety of wants and needs, and after accomplishing a goal, we move on to the next regardless whereas helping others focus on thier personal goals has more likelyhood of bringing happiness to an individual as you have no idea of what comes next for them, but you take pleasure in seeing that thier current obstacle or goal could be accomplished with your help. Also when interacting with individuals you've helped in any way, they serve as memoirs of actions you've done which can be more frequent and satisfying.

