Happiness is a fairly subjective emotion. I prefer the word "contentiness" better, as a form of describing the current well being of a person's mental state. Happiness can be describe as a state of emotion of joyous, showing elevated mood, a sense of optomisim. One idea of happiness from a biological point of view is that natural drugs in the body, which as dopamine, sertonin, endorphins fill the body after a certain action or events that takes place. Therefore, drug use could induce feeling of happiness or euphoria, but it's probably not the same psychologically happiness that ones thinks about, but rather a more physiological response.

If one thinks of happiness as the opposite, being unhappy, sad, depressed, angry, etc, then one can see how happiness is more in line with self-satisfication and contentiness. Either way, semantics asides there are ways people can obtain this so called happiness. Some ways are derived directly through experiential means like physical pleasure or socio-economic gratifcation. The other side is mostly implicitly through seeing how your actions and behaviors affects the lives and emotions of other people, in which case happiness can be achieved. 

People are always different, there is no sense putting people into categorical boxes, but sometimes it's useful to use generalizations for illustrating a point. Whether a person can derive happiness from pursuing personal goals or obtain it from doing good deeds for others is a matter of personality difference. The first category falls more into the philosophical view of hedonism. Where in this philosophy, in simple terms, the end goal is the pleasure derived of experiental means itself, not some sort of objective moral system. The latter view of gaining happiness of others is more less a description of alturism. In which being alturistic means doing things for others and not expecting anything back in return in the short term (or long term). 

It can be quite obvious that most people in society would be the alturistic view to most "moral" in the sense that being self-less is a noble and virtuous trait. Of course the hedonism is a hyperbolic view of self-acheiving happiness, which isn't inherently an amoral pursuit. But from an anecdotal or heuristic viewpoint, it's clear that people who seek happiness selfishly, tend to be less happy than people who seeks happiness selflessly. I think it's because the naive state is to be selfish, because we are humans and humans are animals. And animals tend to see self-preservation first, over others and over self-actualization. Since the selfish state is the first mode people graviate towards, more people will be trying to do that, gain happiness through their own means, by finding money, expriencing things, etc. In many cases which need not explaining, happiness pursuit in this method can often lead into an endless rabbit hole. Always stuck looking for higher high or failing to purpose or a deeper cause. 

Whereas I believe if one follows the self-less, this person is already, predisposed to be happy, because they know that being self-less is a inherently moral lifestyle, whether intentional or not. Typically, one seels examples of self-less people, people who donate, volunteer, helping out with others in needs etc, tend to be happier on average than people that don't. Again, it's not clear if it's a correlation or not, whether people who do self-less actions, tend to become more self-less or that people who are already self-less will tend to do most self-less/moral actions. Or it could be the case that both is true. 

In conclusion, depending on the indivduals's personality, a person can be tend to be or are more liable to be selfish or self-less. The ones who are self-less are probably more likely to be more happiness on average and have a better outlook on life, than the ones who only or primarly seek personal goals to gain happiness. Of course, this is all mostly conjecture, one would need to back these claims up with data, evidence, studies to provide credences to these ideas. Otherwise it is all but meaningless speculation. 
