There are people on both sides of the spectrum when it comes to materialism. In today's society people are pretty materialistic and I don't really see that as a negative thing. There's the saying that things are just things and you shouldn't rely on them to make you happy. It's also true that once you die, none of those things will matter. I just don't see what the problem is with enjoying material things while we are still here. 

Mankind has come very long way from the Stone Age because of innovations and the evolution of ideas. Material things are not the most important things in life but if you want to work hard to acquire materialistic things while you can then I say do it! I don't see why it should be criticized. I think people should live as they wish as long as it doesn't hurt anyone else. 

My reasoning comes from having materialistic things but also, at times, not having been able to enjoy material things. At different times in my life I've had to stick to spending money only on the bare necessities.  It's okay, I haven't died from not being able to spend my money freely. I have been happy without being able to spend my money on material things. I can say that, during those hard times, I worked hard to be able to get to that place again where I could spend money on those things. I've had a car that is okay and I've wanted to trade it for a more luxurious one. I don't need it but I would prefer to have more comfortable seats and a smoother ride with colder AC. That's just what I like.

Family and friends are important. Having meaningful experiences is definitely very important. Whether you spend money on materialistic things or not shouldn't take away from that. I think you can have it all if you choose to and you're able to. If spending money on things makes someone happy then I say more power to them.

I think that we have one life to live and we should do things that fulfill us. It's not going to look the same for everybody. It doesn't have to. I think there's a balance in life, a little bit of everything. I think if something is out there, there's someone who's going to want it. There's also someone who won't and that's okay to. For those people that are minimalistic, if that's what they want to do then they should. I don't think anyone has the right to make someone else live like them. 

I may not fully understand why it is a problem to be materialistic and why it would be criticized because I don't have a problem with it at all. I enjoy shopping and having nice things. Honestly, I think people will always strive to make better products to improve and facilitate our lives and that's a beautiful thing. There will always be someone who will appreciate and embrace that fact. On the other hand, not everyone has to and that's beautiful, too. We have the freedom to choose how we want to live. 


