Although some materialism is necessary to navigate modern society, materialism is ultimately destructive for both individuals and the world at large. Thus, some criticism of materialistc tendencies is necessary.

The most potent argument against excessive materialism is that it requires excessive production of goods, and that production consumes resources and damages the environment. As developing countries seek the material status of more devoloped countries, these trends will ultimately get worse, and the planet will face severe pollution, refugee flows, and climate change.

On a personal level, materialism can also be destructive. I've never had the impression that people with more possessions are any happier than people with fewer possessions. The pursuit of expensive toys also requires more hours spent at work, which means fewer hours spent with loved ones, creating art, and enjoying nature. The kind of "type-A" personality required for materialistic acquisition also leads to greater levels of stress, which is a significant health risk.

Some may argue that acquiring possessions is necessary to succeed in a high-powered, dog-eat-dog world. The reasoning here is that expensive clothes or a nice car may be required to impress the power brokers who control the fates of those seeking entry into high society. This may be true, but if you have no desire to enter into high society, then these acquisitions may be irrelevant. And often, it can be easier and more satisfying to impress others with a quick wit, an easy smile, and compelling artistic creations.

This is not an idictment of acquiring any possesions at all. I personally am not particularly interested in "stuff," but there are some items which I hold dear: a powerful computer, an elegant backpack, and a good raincoat. All things in moderation. No need to become an ascetic and renounce all worldly goods. But the excessive pursuit of materialistic ends is bound to lead to ruin, to both the pursuer and the planet.
