Happiness comes in two forms: what is partially or largely in your control and what you have no direct control over. People are more likely to be happy when they focus on and achieve personal goals that are the direct result of their actions, circumstances, and situation. You can't control society. You can't fix the world's problems. You can, however, exercise a large amount of control over your personal life and achieving dreams and goals (within reason) that are of a personal nature. For most that means finding love, getting married, and having kids. It means providing for your family and spending time with them. When people die most will forget about the work a person did or temporal work achievements. The love of family is what endures. 

As most come to learn in adulthood, those who rise are not usually the most competent, hardest working, or most intelligent. You can be the hardest worker, the most intelligent, or the best person for the job on an objective basis and still not get it. Focusing solely on a career or larger goals (being appointed or elected a judge or being promoted to a C level position in a fortune 500 company) is not ideal as your success is dependent on others who apply arbitrary and caprious decisioning making. Someone may just not like you. Staking your happiness on achieving societal goals or career goals is bound to dissappoint. 

All humans are designed with a genetic code to focus on immediate physical needs like food, water, safety, and shelter. After this we are designed with an imperative to procreate and bind ourselves to others which makes it possible. We are designed to care for our children. This is biological. No matter the success we achieve in a career, politics, or for systemic societal or governmental change, we will not be satisfied unless we have someone to go home to. Economic success will be hallow without someone to enjoy it with. Success shared with loved ones will mean more even if it is marginal success. No one regrets not working or spending time on their career on their death bed. They regret not focusing on family. 


