As we are now into the third decade of the twenty-first century, social media is inescapable, tools for editing photos, audio, and video are ubiquitous and easy to use, and attention spans have decreased. All of these combine to make the perfect environment for appearances to take over from substance, and we're reaching a point where one must be constantly vigilant and critically examine every piece of media and information that crosses our path.

On social media sites such as Instagram, everyone from celebrities to ordinary people are compelled to share only the most flattering versions of themselves. Even if we don't have time to put on makeup in the morning, there's a filter to take care of that and smooth out our imperfections. And why do we feel this compulsion to only share our most "perfect" side? Even though on some level we're aware that none of this is anyone's day-to-day reality, we also don't want to portray ourselves as anything lesser than those we follow on those networks. On Twitter, we need to be the smartest or sharpest; on Instagram, everything in our life is arranged just perfectly; on Facebook, we're the perfect mom or family member; on Zoom, the bookshelves behind us display our seriousness.

At the same time, the most influential celebrities on sites like Instagram and TikTok would love to tell us about the great new products that are helping make their lives better. Podcast hosts regularly share their personal experiences with a certain mattress or brand of athleisure wear. If it's good enough for them, it must be good enough for us! Never mind that next month or next year, you'll never hear about those brands -- it's a new mattress, a new pair of joggers, a new vitamin supplement that's working for them now. Was it ever really real? Or maybe all of these brands are perfectly adequate and none of them are a miracle cure.

It is these products that rely on a certain level of prestige or cachet that really benefit from celebrity or influencer endorsements. If we believe they are really using these products and getting results, why wouldn't we want to do the same? One wonders if the influencers themselves believe the claims, or if they're just "faking it until they make it." Probably a little of both, depending on the individual and the product.

Our attention spans, too, are suffering and contribute to our propensity to believe the superficial instead of the reality. It's easy to see a product on TikTok, and in a minute-long video decide that it's worth trying. E-commerce is so easy now that "boom" -- you've just bought a new skincare product without giving it a second thought.

When it comes to more consequential information, our short attention spans also betray us. How many times have we read a headline but not the whole news story, but carried on conversations about it as if we're now an expert on the subject? I would guess most news consumers aren't aware that the author of an article is rarely the one who writes the headline, and depending on the experience and thoroughness of the editor, the headline doesn't always convey all of the important information in a story. In some cases, even if a headline is later corrected to better reflect the content of an article, the thumbnails that appear on social media may still contain the old, misleading headline. Now more than ever, we need to be critical news consumers and so many of us do not take the time to examine what we're reading or watching.

Another area of concern is the emerging problem of deep fakes. Our technology is such that we can create amazing worlds in fictional movies and TV series, but the same technology allows people with malevolent motivations to create deep fakes that may confuse or create beliefs that certain politicians or celebrities have said or done something that they never did. How often do you read the corrections section of the newspaper? It is much more difficult to correct or debunk incorrect or fabricated information than it is to get it right the first time. The same will be true as deep fakes become more and more prevalent. Even if a deep fake is debunked, not everyone who saw the offending video/photo will hear about the debunking. And others will contend that if a video could be fake, why couldn't the information debunking also be fake? What is real?

In conclusion, we need to become more critical consumers of news and media. We need to take our time and consult multiple sources before drawing a conclusion about something that is fleetingly presented to us. 
