In my opinion, you can achieve success if you choose to do either, its just about the strategy you use and what the situation is. In a fairy tail world, the correct answer would always be cooperation, because you would want everyone to win. But in the real world, certain choices will lead you to have to do either to reach whatever your idea of success is. 
The way you can win with cooperation, in my opinion, is to appeal to everyones intrest, make it worth their wild. In my case, I wor in health care, so cooperation from all the staff can make the day or night run so much better than if we are against each other, were also saving lives in the process. When it comes to things like sports, cooperation from ech player on the team will definitely increase chances of winning, along with good strategy. In cooperating, everyone must ue their best attribute for the betterment of the team. It must be well thought out and fair for everyone. While cooperating you have no room to be selfish, your mind must be focused on you and your team. When it comes to competition, my best example is politics. Politicians have to use their best attrubutes against each other in order to win. Yeah politics are supposed to be for the betterment of the country but during election time it becomes dog eat dog, and sometimes the politician does not have the peoples best intrest at heart, they just want to win that seat. Another example can be in the workplace, when people re going against each other at a chance for a promotion, they are not willing to work together because only one will get it. They will be trying to out do each other any way possible and you have all motive to be selfish. 
In conclusion, I can see diffrentsituations and scenarios where I can achieve success by cooperation or competition. In most situations i'd love to work with others so we can all win as a collective, but in this society you'll have to face people who would rather see you lose for diffrent reasons. Life will face you with challenges where you'll have tomake a choice between the two. So to answer the prompt question, no, you cannot achieve success by cooperation or competition, you'll have to be prepared to do both in order to reach your idea of success.
