Being materialistic is something we all, whether we like to or not participate in. We all use and acquire items in life whether it be for personal pleasure, our everyday needs, work, play, or things that we gift to others.  Despite some people thinking materialism is something to be ashamed of, as a society we should not criticize others for being materialistic. 

Like I mentioned before we are all in someway materialistic. Society as a whole needs items for our day to day lives and exsistence. For instance things as simple as a toothbrush and toothpaste -some of us just acquire more materialistic items than others. Think about what you do everyday. I would bet that everyday you use or touch items that you have in your living space that you don't necessarily need. If you have pictures, gaming systems, notebooks to write freely in, extra ponytail bands, or a drawer with too many pens and pencils that you somehow cant get yourself to get rid of, you are materialistic. I won't put shame on someone who likes to read for collecting novels if it's something they enjoy doing and if it brings them happiness. Being materialistic is sometimes more than just 'having things', sometimes its all about what makes your life your own and what makes you tick. If collecting material things makes you happy keep on doing it. 

On the other hand, many people may look at materialism as wasteful. Wastefulness is seen as something to 
be ashamed of and many people, especially now with climate change, won't hesitate to criticize materialistic people. This is because materialism could often result in items being tossed in the garbage or strewn about. Some people are also just more quickly to criticize others for doing things against how they themselves would. Some people tend to be more minimalist than others which is great if that's what works for you - others need materialistic items in life to add to their personal feelings of worth. Just because someone chooses to spend more time consuming more things than you doesn's make it wrong. 

I think most materialistic people often are collectors in one form or another and therefore are not necessarily  polluting the earth with more garbage. Instead they are enjoying their items in the comfort of their own homes, surrounding themselves with their little bit of happiness and are minding their own business while doing so. I don't think we need to be criticized for living our own lives the way that makes us happy.


