I believe our society is overtyly proned to visual stimulation and often leaves a lasting impression that is more often than not, to varying degrees, false. We have normalized virtual meetings over platforms such as zoom, and congregate with friends and loved ones using facetime and social media, while almost completely accepting the visual cues we see via these means as pure reality. I think this is leading to great degradation in the fabric of our society and our ability to form accurate impressions of the people and things we are visually focused on.

Many would argue that reliance on images and visualizations, especially as pertains to mediums like facetime and social media, have made it possible for more people to stay in contact and connected with more people, which is arguably a good thing. The same people would likely point to how it's not much different to the evolution to the telephone placating in-person visits for decades and decades now. But I would argue that even the telephone has torn at our perceptions of others, albeit it's not as negative in impact on society as the visualization mediums that portray picture-perfect families and real human emotions with emojis. It's true that more people are in contact with more people due to these visual communication methods, but never have people been more depressed and alone so I believe this is proof that images and impressions that develop from them have too great an effect on people in negative ways.

There's something about meeting someone face-to-face, looking straight into their eyes, and greeting them with a smile and warm handshake that helps us form more valid impressions of people and things. And there are multiple times that I've bought something online based on the image and description that had I seen it in person, it would not have gotten a second glance from me, and deservably so. Impressions formed by visualization via image is not entirely a bad thing so long as it's not substituted from in-person exhanges. I don't want to buy a new car from a catalog. I want to test drive it and smell that new car scent before deciding if it's the right fit. On television or in a magazine, there has never been an automobile that doesn't ride smooth, winding paths across the mountains or brave a rugged, rocky stream in an offroad adventure when in reality, most of the time they are far from the representation. 

We need to valuate things in-person and size them up. Be wary of forming impressions based on images alone and always note that the best image is always what they put forward but it doesn't make it reality. Give a homeless man a shower and then put him in a labcoat with a stephoscope around his neck, and he's instantly perceived as an intelligent, qualified medical professional but in reality he's just a homeless man who bathed, wearing a costume. Impressions should never be entirely formed around images and don't make the mistake of underestimating the human ability to discern and valuate the physical, in-person meeting or presentation.
