In this essay I'm going to explain how happiness can be achieved through external gratification. Some argue that happiness is derived from working towards and achieving one's own goals. Others would argue that happiness comes from not focusing on our own happiness but rather focusing on the happiness of others. Happiness is a fleeting emotion. Whether you're achieving your goals or improving someone's life, happiness requires effort. By focusing on how to be of service to others, happiness becomes a byproduct of that service. What follows is a personal account of how seeking to better someone else's experience had a positive impact on my mood.

I would attempt to get sober many times in my life. I had small successes throughout my mid to late 20s. It wasn't until I focused on improving the lives of the people around me, that I began to feel this elusive happiness. I would go to 12 step meetings day in and day out without any real tangible evidence that my life was getting better. I decided on a whim that I would take someone else struggling with addiction out for coffee and lunch. I had no idea at the time how positive and happy I would feel afterwards. The person I brought to lunch became a close friend for many years to come. I have had the privilage of experiencing happiness with this person countless times since. The act of being a supportive figure to someone gave me a sense of satisfaction. The bursts of happiness were sustained, in that those positive emotions carried over into other aspects of my life. I felt useful and it gave me a sense of confidence to achieve other goals I had.

In conclusion, by focusing on someone else's wellbeing, I myself benefited. That isn't to say that finding happiness through achieving one's own goals isn't a viable path the happiness. The rest of life simply becomes more rewarding when being of service to others. In my case it was helping another person struggling with addiction, but it could be anything. It could be feeding the homeless at a soup kitchen, protesting for equality, or giving someone you care about a thoughtful gift. The reward of happiness in helping others is only the beginning.
