Do appearances, images and impressions have too much of an effect on people? I'd say for the most part yes. A lot depends on the person as well as a persons age. I believe the younger you are, the easier it is to be impressed with appearances. Peer pressure from your school chums can be tough!
I read a study once that stated the quality of the Dr. Dre headphones was that of other headphones that cost much less. If you're a teenager and want to appear hip or appear wealthy...well you might not care that the quality is not worthy of the hefty price. I remember as a child loving getting a happy meal from mcdonalds. I loved the box. I loved the toy. It wasn't about the food at all. I can recall a couple times when they didn't have the box and the food was in a bag. Not cool. Made for a very unhappy me.  Those commercials made happy meals seem so appealing. The same thing happened in high school. Certain shoes (Vans) were considered cool. Certain jeans (Calvin Klein). Certain backpack (Jansport). Heck, in high school there was a girl who cut her hair to look cool like Jennifer Aniston on Friends. Was that girl me? Possibly...
I'm in my 40's now. I work hard for my money. Would I like to get a new iphone every time one is released. I admit, yes, part of me would. I have reached the point in my life though, where I would rather pay less for my perfectly functional android phone. I have bills to pay. I am doing these surveys to earn extra cash for Christmas. While there is still that part of me that would like to be one of the cool kids with the hip phone, with age I have realized  what is worth my money and what isn't. I also understand reality a bit too. Do I want the fancy car James Bond drives? Sure. Can I afford it? Not a chance! 
Even though with getting older I am able to resist the temptation to spend on stuff I don't need, I admit that the thought is still always there....which leaves me to believe images and impressions do indeed have too much of an effect. I also believe that the fact I still have those thoughts as well as the memory of childhood is why its easy to spend money on the kids in my life. I imagine most of us feel the same. We won't spend the money on ourselves, but we will buy the expensive jeans for the kiddos. Such it is with each generation I suppose. 
