The pursuit of happiness is a matter which has long plagued mankind.  Much thought has been dedicated to the subject and many thinkers and experts have put forward considered thoughts on the matter.  Can happiness come down to fixing oneself on one's own personal goals only, or will happiness find the person who attends to the happiness of others?

Some think that it is right to dedicate oneself to one's own happiness in everyday life and not to concern oneself with the happiness of others.  Others take the approach that its far better to focus on the happiness of other people, or humanity.  Which approach is the better road?

Its difficult to argue that one should not attend to one's own personal happiness. It can even be said that by this pursuit one is taking responsibility for one's happiness.  There seems to be much weight that can be given to this line of thought and it is a popular one in the United States, perhaps even the norm.  Many view the struggles of life to be all-consuming and perceive that helping others is not worthwhile and a waste of valuable time, energy, and effort.

On the other hand there seems to be a real phenomenon that happens when one takes the time and effort to support the happiness of others.  One's burdens are shared and even lessened.  Social bonds are reinforced.  People can find joint happiness, and purpose, in efforts to improve the situations of humans.  

One could make a case for others to forgo their daily personal grind in the chase for happiness for themselves only, but this does not seem realistic.  Nor does a life devoted entirely in complete service to others.  As in many things a nice balance of these two approaches will I think, manuver a person into the vicinity of happiness.

The next time the subject of personal happiness comes up, one really deserves to pause and think.  How and when do I experience happiness?  Should I chase after it in the hope that I can find it somewhere?  There is no guarantee.  What if I help others to the detriment of myself?  No real joy here either.  It could very well be that the most sound way to seek after happiness is to do a little happy dance and hope it all balances out in the end.


