Acording to my perception, happiness come when a person acheives their personal goals. So in order for that to happen, people should only focus on their own goals and put all their energy to achieve that goal, and by giving more time to achieve that goal, it automatically makes us happy as we are struggling and somehow finding a way to achieve that goal. People should always be able to realise the goals and then use their mind to go towards the goal.

Also, some people think that happiness comes when they focus on making other people happy. It is somewhat correct as it is a human nature to to be happy when we make someone's day or help them achieve their goal in some way and by means of it bringing happiness to the people around us. Even if other peoples happiness is important, you should always consider that your happiness is important too and you shouyld give more times to make yourself happy. Maybe you can set a goal and find a way to move towards the goal and then try to focus more on that specified goal and reach it. This make it more challenging and when you are really nable to achieve that goal you can feel the real happiness.

You should have one thing in mind when you think about making yourself happy compared to others. You should not be happy when another person you dont like is failing in their life., Even if they are your enemies, you should have some humanity and try to make their life a better one by somehow helping them either directly or indirectly. If you do this, you will realise the real happiness and that happiness comes from humanity which is the true human nature. This make you more positive  and will make your life more beautiful.  Always think about being positive and this brings real happiness for you and others around you. Make yourself feel belonging to whatever place you go and this make your life more interesting. According to me, the real happiness comes when you are very positive and block all the negative things in their mind. Learn to evolve and even if you dont find happiness in whatever things you do in life , try to learn new things which can make you happy. There is more to life and being very positive and spreading happiness is a way to evolve.  
