As consumers in society it is difficult to avoid the fact that many of us can be materialistic. The concept of materialism is one that many of us can relate with because of how common it seems to be in our modern times and culture. Although some of us may like to think that we are not very materialistic the matter of fact is that many of us are. I don't think that modern society should be criticized for being materalistic because many of us as individuals are as well and it doesn't make sense to judge society as a collective to be too materialistic if we haven't even changed this on an individual level. This shows up in ways such as through consumption decisions, daily goals and motivations, as well as how we choose to view ourselves and society.

We make decisions on a daily basis that impacts our lives and how we feel about ourselves and our modern society. Materialistic decisions are made as individuals very often. This includes our desire to have the latest forms of technology, new consumer products, and innovative solutions for problems we don't want to deal with. If we act this way as individuals then modern society does not deserve to be criticized for being overly materialistic.

Another way materialism presents itself in our modern society is through our daily goals and motivations. Many of us strive towards progress and change. We want our conditions to improve in ways that can be very materalistic. We want larger homes, faster cars, the latest phones, and all of the shiny gadgets and accessories we notice in advertisements. Each day we can be pulled in multiple directions towards consumer products and experiences. If we individually are motivated towards materialistic goals this provides even less reason to be critical towards modern society being materalistic.

Although we live in society we often choose how we ultimately view ourselves and the society we are a part of. In many ways we view things through the lens of a consumer and what society can provide to us in tangible ways. We want to know what resources are currently available to us and in what ways we can acquire them. We want to have the consumer goods that make us feel like we are living our lives in a way that is meaningful and gives us a sense of purpose or fulfillment. These patterns of behavior give more momentum to the tendency of society to be materialistic. It seems wrong to criticize society when we act this way as individuals. If we value our own relationship with materialism then society is not to blame.

It seems apparent that both individually and collectively we deal with materialism in modern society. As consumers we make daily decisions that further this concept. We are also motivated towards many products and experiences that are very materialistic. Ultimately we also view our lives and ourselves in a way that seems quite materialistic. We must not judge society for that which we currently strengthen and enable. If we want real change it would make more sense to focus on our own decisions first. Before we criticize others and society we need to take a real look in the mirror.
