Modern society has been criticised for being materialistic. As with most ideas, anything taken to an extreme can be harmful. Personal and corporate greed can harm society, but in general, the desire for material gain can be and often is a catalyst for growth and progress.

Modern technology would not have advanced as far as it has without materialism. The desire for more and nicer things drives competition and innovation. This is the idea behind which capitalism is built, and it's not always a selfish desire. Henry Ford introduced assembly-line built vehicles to the world. Did he want to make money? Of course he did. But he also wanted everyone in America to be able to afford a car and make their lives more efficient. As another example, today's modern daily conveniences rely heavily on Internet access from a mobile device. Think of Uber, Lyft, DoorDash, Grubhub, etc. None of this would be possible without Steve Jobs and his vision of the iPhone, and then Google building their competing Android ecosystem, followed by the various companies building their businesses on top. Entrepreneurs building ideas on top of other ideas has advanced modern life far beyond most people's imaginations just a few years ago.

This is not to say that materialism is without fault. Taken to the extreme, personal and corporate greed can and does create great harm, especially to those on the perceived lower rungs of society. A most egregious example would be pharmaceutical companies that take government money for research, patent new drugs, and then place these life-saving medicines out of reach for needy consumers. This is why regulation is required. The key in this example is that any companies taking taxpayer money for R&D cannot be allowed to overcharge the taxpayers who fund their research. Unfettered corporatism and unregulated capitalism is the real issue, not materialism.

While this can be a nuanced discussion. I maintain that the basic idea of materialism is a driving force for progress. Without which, many modern conveniences likely would not exist today.
