Materialism is a product of capitalism. The American society was essentially created with buying and spending in mind. Materialism is present in advertisements, social media, and television. It will always be the talk of the town. Modern society is only following the traditions that was provided to them. Therefore, modern society should not be criticized for the being materialistic. 

Modern people are taught from an early age to be obessed with materialism. Yound children grow  up watching their favorite actors and actresses buying and utilizing expensive things. Some of their favorites are seen in commericals advertising clothing. electonics, and uncessary inventions. This results in children wanting those things. So can we blame the child? The adults executives and production crew are to blame, h0nestly, but that does not stop children from being immersed in consumerism from a young age. To appease the children, their parent buy in to what they want and the cycle begins. 

Societal pressures influence matetialism. People often feel the need to compete with their peers. If everyone in middle school is wearing the same expensive jeans, then someone who transfered into the school would feel pressured to buy them. Similarly, if all of your peers drive luxary cars, then this would influence you to buy one. Humans have a natural competiveness and fear of inferiority, so it easy for them to get caught up in materialism. Social media plays a major influence in materialism, also. One TikToker once said that every person on the app is trying to keep up trends. The moment a person buys into a fad, the next one appears an hour later. This influences consumers to try to keep up. Unfortunately, this is not a new concept. Historically people have been influenced by what others had. A prime example is the "Great Gatsby" based off the 1920s. When Gatsby had money, parties, and luxurious things everyone wanted a piece of that lifestyle. When Gatsby was left with nothing, no one cared. Without materialistic influence, people are treated like nothing.

Some may agrue that we should change the narrative about consumerism and stray away from materialism. There are many people who suggest that we buy tiny houses and live off the minimum. They discuss how materialism is damaging. While these people believe that are less aclimated to a materialistic lifestyle, they are just as materialistic. Their energy efficient home is a product of materialism. Their tiny kitchen gadgets and compact storage bins are materials that can be bought on an Amazon store front. The solar panels they use are booming in sales right now. The 'tiny home' experience is a brand within itself. To actually stray away from materialism, capitalism and consumerism would need to be addressed first but that is unlikely to occur.

To conclude, materialism is a product of traditions passed down in our society. We are pushed materialistic ideaology on a regular basis through advertising, social media, and television. And there is pressure for us to meet materialistc expectations daily. Even a Google search is going to expose someone to something materialistic. Modern society cannot be blamed for what they were raised in. It is not their fault that materialism is the most sought after and adored. The ones at fault are the ones who built this society, created societal pressures, and established consumerism that we now feed off of. 


