Modern society has the tendency to place high emphasis on materialism.  Humans have a biological nature to store and amass things needed for the survival of their species. So can we really blame humanity for its need to buy and consume as much as we do?

The need to buy and consume triggers a dopamine release on the human brain.  It just plain feels good to get stuff. However, where is the line drawn between having enough and buying more for the sake of needing more. The idea for most people is that having more is always better. It's better to have more money, more friends, more cars/jewelry/social status. But this doesn't lead to more happiness, or more peace and content. If anything, the things we own end up owning us. 

Therefore, it seems that you can't really blame humans for wanting to acquire more. Everyone just wants to be at peace and be happy with what they have.  I don't believe we should criticize anyone for wanting more. Instead we should look into the reasons why people try to fill this gaping hole in their hearts with more things.  Everyone has this hole that they try to fill. Some people turn to drugs, relationships and of course buying material things.  So instead of critizicing, I think it's more important to get to the root cause of why people want more. And to me the reason is not thinking that you yourself are enough. If you try to buy more things so that you'll be more, then you'll end up losing. If you feel that you're enough to begin with, you won't need anything else to make you feel more complete. 

I believe that it's wrong to criticize people for wanting to feel and be more. It's only natural. It sure doesn't help having advertising shoved in our faces that we are incomplete without a certain product. But it's more important to understand that as humans we have a need to have meaning, and status, and to be noticed, and buying and consuming products will temporarily help us with this quest. But once we realize that there is nothing that could possibly make us more complete then we already are, then we will always be chasing that high. 

