The influence of advertising and marketing campaigns has been a frequent target of debate since movies and television became common features in people's everyday lives. However, I think the issue goes deeper than that; I believe that the entertainment itself that is presented, especially on television, warps our sense of reality and shapes unreasonable expectations in our minds.

Human beings learn about things like social norms, relationship conduct, living circumstances, how to deal with adversity, and what to expect from events that occur in everyday life from watching and interacting with other humans. It's a case of "don't listen to what people say; watch what they do". Television programs, with their appearance of reality, create unrealistic and/or carefully created expectations in those that watch them.

People who watch a lot of TV usually see a particular type of lifestyle and living conditions presented as the "norm". They expect justice to prevail in all cases; they expect problems to be resolved or crimes to be solved in 30 minutes or an hour. They are usually shown a version of reality that is seen through rose-colored glasses, or, if the "nitty-gritty" is shown, there is some sort of redemption at the end. Stories that end with failure and disappointment don't entice audiences to watch. Audiences want to be uplifted, to be made to feel secure, and to feel that good will always prevail over evil.

While some will claim that "it's only entertainment", and that watchers are well aware that they are watching fiction, they fail to realize that these programs influence us on a subconcious level, where we instinctively re-create our perceptions of what to expect and how to behave in the real world. How often do you see a program about a family living in a run-down, dirty mobile home where they struggle to pay the electric bill? 

Television has been a significant factor in shaping and directing our society in directions that it perhaps would not have taken without its influence, and leaves us vulnerable to manipulation from those who create these programs. Governments and corporations have the means, and undoubtedly the intent, to influence the world in ways that benefit them, through the medium of televised "entertainment". We have all been "shaped" in ways of which we are totally unaware.
