Often, what we see is not what is real. Some of these illusions are "wired-in" to our biology--for example, each person sees colors slightly differently. Others of these illusions, however, are meticulously crafted by companies, advertising agencies, or the media, in order to sway our beliefs about their product or the world as a whole. While our hard-wired heuristics (mental shortcuts) cannot be easily changed, we must learn to take a second look at the world and determine for ourselves what is true. Otherwise, we risk running on autopilot, our thoughts and emotions controlled by the curated images and impressions around us. 

It is easy, and usually beneficial, to jump to conclusions about things or people based on appearances. More often than not, these conclusions are supported--we have learned that someone wearing a certain uniform works in a certain industry, for example. However, these stereotypes can become harmful, or be used against us. Restuarants will serve their food on certain colored plates so that the customers enjoy them more, people will be found guilty based on a negative experience the judge had with a similiar-appearing person. Social media managers and advertising companies are well-versed in what images, colors, or phrases people will respond well to, and will use this knowledge in order to present their clients in a better light. When our heuristics are intentionally manipulated by outside forces, what we think we see and believe can no longer be trusted. 

It is not easy to escape from the control that images and impressions have on us, but it is important. While we may not be able to change our first thoughts, we can choose to take a second look. We can ask ourselves what the intentions were when this image was created, what the creator is hoping to accomplish, and whether our impression lines up with reality. Only in this way will we be able to take control of our thoughts and instincts, and escape the curated culture that has been created around us.

