Happiness is an essential aspiration of the human experience, so much so that the pursuit of it can be found enshrined as a right of the highest importance in the founding documents of the United States of America. To attain happiness, people pursue avenues such as romance, family and fame, among others, but there is no set universal path. There is also no clear guidance as to whether happiness is something primarily found through one's own individual pursuit of individual goals or something provided by others. How one should focus between these two options, focusing on their own happiness or focusing on the happiness of others, remains a subject of debate.
To attain happiness, one must have purpose and meaning. It is by focusing on one's own purpose and meaning, not those of others, that happiness is more likely to be found. This is not to say to say the two are always mutually exclusive, but broadly, it is more effective to prioritize one's own goals as a means of achieving happiness.
The primary argument for this position is a matter of control and autonomy. A person has much more of these over their own life than the lives of others. Attaching validation, meaning, satisfaction, and all other contributing elements of happiness to that which one has the most control only makes sense. The frustration of making happiness conditional on the emotions and subjective state of others, conditions in which one has relatively limited control, is a much more daunting and difficult task.
Critics may say this is counter to the pursuit of happiness because it turns society into a discconnected assortment of self-centered, uncaring individualists. This is a valid but flawed perspective. Focusing on one's own goals includes consideration and respect of other's pursuit of happiness because humans are social beings who depend on providing others support, rights, and purpose. This mutual social contract is an element of the individual pursuit of happiness. One cannot truly pursue their own goals unless they are doing so under a social contract that allows others to do the same. Maintaining this fabric of society is an inherent part of the pursuit of one's own goals.
Happiness is a mystery. It cannot effectively or wholly be deconstructed in one short essay, but with some exploration and analysis of the core human experience, it can be supported that one must prioritize their own individual goals as the most effective means of finding the highest happiness. In doing so, the happiness and goals of others will also be bolstered because it is built into the true pursuit of individual goals.
