Happiness is a feeling of fullfillment and joy that a person receives when performing an action that is in line with their goals. Happiness can be momentary and fleeting, or it can be long lasting and satisfying. The latter is the type of happiness that most people are after. The question is, how does one acheive this type of "true" happiness with themselves and the world? The answer is through acts of kindness and benevolence towards other people. Happiness comes from outside of ones own being, rather than inside. Giving up the pursuit of selfish indulgence and living for a greater purpose is the key to lifelong happiness.

In modern society, we are constantly told that the way to find happiness is to look inward. It is to go after goals that we feel are important. It is to self reflect and mediate on ourselves. It is to picture ourselves in the life that we want, and then will it into existence. It is to surround ourselves with financially successful and hard working people that we wish to be like, and then use them to our advantage. This is a capitalist lie meant to make people enslaved to the idea that happiness comes through money and materil things. This is not happiness. This is the opposite. This is meant to make sure people are never happy and constantly have to keep working, all the while chasing their tail in circles. This is a shallow attempt at filling holes in an empty life. People that live a life all about themselves ultimately end up with mental illness and depression.

As human beings, our goal is to lift each other up. To protect one another. This is where our strength lies. We aren't particularly strong, or fast, or fierce. What we have is the ability to share and sacrifice ourselves to others in order to see them push humanity one step forward. That feeling of accomplishment, that we have done something that will last forever, something that lifted others up, that is where true happiness comes from. The feeling that we mattered, even to one other person, is what gives human beings satisfaction. It is in our DNA to feel this way. Happiness is an emotion, just like any other. It has evolved with us through hundreds of thousands of years of evolution. Those of us that have made it this far in our genetic line, did so by helping one another. This is why this action brings us joy and happiness. It is there in order to take us another hundred thousand years into the future. 

So, when pursuing true happiness, the goal should be to look outwards, not inwards. There is nothing a person can do for themselves that will obtain long term peace and happiness. This must come from outside of oneself. This comes from being a part of something greater. This comes from helping others.
