    In any society, business, culture, family, the question of how how to drive success is very important.  Leaders can encourage their people to work through competition or through cooperation to achieve success.  I beleive that cooperation is the strongest way to achieve success for any individual, society, business or culture.  Success is not only measured by achieving the goal you set out for - as both methods will likely result in the goal being achieved.  But success is also measured by considering the ramifications of how the goal was achieved and the long term effects this may have.
    Cooperation is defined as working together towards a common goal.  Different people with different ideas and backagrounds and methods come together to share and work towards a common goal.  In the cooperation method, one person can fill in for another persons weakness and vice versa.  Ideas and thoughts are discussed freely.  Even if something is presented that doesn't work, together the team will come to that conclusion and go back to the drawing board to rework, fix, update the idea to be more inline with the overall task goals.  Everyone who particiaptes in a true collaborative cooperation task feels empowered and encouraged to continue to contribute.  When the idea or goal is successful, that success and pride is shared by all members of the team.
    In a competitive situation, all tasks and interactions are naturally negative.  Each person in the competition scenario is technically working towards the same goal, but at the same time working against all other people in the situation.  So while the overall end result may be a success, the collateral damage of the situation will be evident.  All people who were not the winning person will be left to feel defeated and unsuccessful.  People may have damaged relationships along the way, all in the name of being the best and winning the competition.  Unfortunately competition also usually will lead to some people doing immoral things, cheating, sabotaging their competitors.  The other glaring negative of competition is that there is no mix of ideas from various people.  The end result is strictly the thoughts, opionins, ideas of 1 person/group, therefore limiting the diversity of the idea, or the number of people it may or may not appeal to.
    The question on the table is do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition?  I think based on the evidence above it is clear that cooperation is the way to achieve more success.  Giving the same task to 2 groups, one working competitively, one working cooperatively, will likely lead to success of the task by both groups, making it seem equal.  But when you account for the side effects of each type of work ethic, it is easy to see that cooperative work leads to the most happy and satisifed people, within the working group and for whomever the task affects.  Competition leads to only 1 proud/satisfied person, and many people likely hurt and/or disatisfied along the way.  The results of competivie success will naturally also be more focused and apply less to a larger group of people.  A real world take on this is to look at governments.  Cooperative goverments will lead to accomplishing goals that a majority of the people will be happy with.  Goverments that promote competition for resources, money, voices will lead to accomplishing goals that only a fractional minority are satisfied and happy with.  Competitiveness divides people, causing polarization among groups with no middle ground. 
    In conclusion, real life application will always support that people achieve more success by cooperation than by competition.  Both methods can be used to get a task done.  But the cooperative method will reap the most benefits overall to the situtation, and therefore the most immediate and future success.
