I personally find it very interesting to observe the lifestyles and habits of different generations. As a young child, I was fascinated by many of the activities of my parents, grandparents, aunts and uncles, other family members and friends. I was curious and had a lot of questions. As I grew older, I began to see similarities in lifestyles that appeared to relate to the age of the person or the generation to which they belonged. 

Materialism is huge topic in today's society. There is a great deal of talk about the environment and a resulting push for conservation of resources. I have often thought of this topic in regards to my childhood. There is no doubt that much has changed over the years. When I look at my grandparent's lifestyles, I can recall that it was quite simple. My uncle and aunt who we spent a great deal time with shared a similar lifestyle. They generally purchased only what they needed and kept things for a very long time. They also did not discard something that could be reused. 

I can recall vividly my aunt and uncle's living room. I know where every piece of furniture sat and what hung on the walls. I remember what books were in the bookshelves next to the fireplace. I can feel the texture of the green sofa that I spent many hours lounging on after holiday meals. The room looked the same from when it was built in the 1960's all the way up until around 2014. They had nice comfortable things and they were built to last. If you fast forward to my parent's lifestyle, there is no doubt a difference. We moved many times. Our furniture changed frequently based on styles and trends. Clothing was constantly changing based on the current fashion. We acquired appliances and gadgets and they were replaced after a few due to failure and more modern styles becoming available. We also tossed alot of things out that were not being used. It was a convenient life, and we were happy consumers. 

When I look at the current generation and modern American society, I can see little to compare with the life of my grandparents. Today, everything is disposable. The seas are awash in plastic. Electronic devices are discarded as soon as new one becomes available. Natural fabrics have been replaced with synthetics made from chemicals. Appliances are built to throw away and have a very short lifespan. In stark contrast there is constant talk of saving the environment and being clean and green. Our society has become more materialistic it seems than any generation I have seen. We have everything at our fingertips and can have whatever we desire brought to our doorstep. 

I have seen many changes throughout my life and I am grateful for all the conveniences that modern society has afforded me. However, I often look back fondly and remember the happy times sitting on the green sofa in my aunt and uncle's house in the cozy living room that never changed. Materialism did not seem to be a concern and we were so happy with what we had. I feel like we got off track somewhere and we have not been able to find our way back. 

