In today's world, competition is king, and it's a shame it has to be this way. Engaging in the rat race, running over and exploiting others for personal gain, may make you wealthy, but will it make you happy?

In my opinion we need to redefine success, and focus more in cooperation. Historically, cooperation has been the only way to survive. People who didn't cooperate, hunting, gathering, farming - would die. Cooperating made the community stronger. It built social ties. Each person contributing their skill to the community as a whole, worked to strengthen and lift each other up. 

Competition causes stress, anxiety and depression. I think more and more people today are realizing that toiling away every day is no way to go through life. I know a lot of people seem to thrive on the rat race, but when they reach then end of their lives, what are they going to look back on? Did the things they gained really make them happy? Did they "win" at life? 

No I think the person who was a part of a family, a circle of friends, and a community will be happier at the end of their life. They can look back and be proud that they touched others, and were touched by others, that they formed friendships, and love, and made a small part of the world better by joining in with others to make a difference. 

And don't forget that competition on a large scale is known as war. When countries refuse to cooperate, when they battle one another for territory, or over idealogical difference, it destroys lives.

I'm not saying that competition has no place in society. When competition remains firmly in the realm of enjoyment, such as sports or games, then it can be enriching. But competing to survive means so many get trampled on, left behind, made to suffer. As billionaires exploit the masses, the divide between the classes grows into a chasm. In a world where people are valued by what they can produce, means that many people simply aren't valued. The disabled, the elderly, the mentally challenged are valued less because they can't "compete". But if we value people simply because they are human, because they touch lives, have hope, have feelings, have dreams, Then we realize just how powerful the act of cooperation is. Everyone is cared for, everyone has a place. 

Our society deserves the beauty of cooperation. Individuals deserve the love, support and kindness of their communities. You may dismiss me as idealistic and maybe I am, but we survived thousands of years by working together. And considering the state of the world today, working together might end up being our only salvation. 

In the end, success is not wealth, but happiness, contentment, comeraderie. You won't get that by competing in the vicious contest that defines our modern lives.

