   Has your child ever wanted a gansito pastry snack because of that cool duck on the packaging? That is just one of the many ways advertisers gain customers and prey on your wallet and child's mental state. In this essay I will talk about the effects of colorful, fun, and overall predatory packaging and the overbearing effect it has on those with the small funds to purchase them.

   I was four years old when I started remembering events and products in my life. I would walk with my mother to the local liquor store before she started her day at work and I would choose a snack of my liking. "Woah, look at that rad skateboarding hare on that bottle!" was probably the feeling and words I was experiencing when I saw my first bottle of Nesquik milk products but was unable to articulate it at the time. Although, my mother was a single working woman getting by and by to put food on the table and barely had the money to pay for these products, she saw how happy these mascots and smiling brown bunny made me and would purchase them constantly. You could say that this isn't bad as it is a mother attempting to keep her child satitated and happy, and with that I can agree. But, the truth of the matter is that these snacks are still processed and unhealthy, and the lasting effect of these images became a little less money that a single mother should have. "Gosh dang, is that an orangatang hanging out on this orange beverage?" it sure was, and I needed that Tang.

 Overall, images and their first impressions have a larger negative effect on a consumers spending habits and a child's association to need those characters in their day to day life. I ask that legislators get on top of this problem, and demand that companies must advertise their products for what they really are. For example, the packaging should be a white background with black text, such as, "Delicious chocolate pastry product with extra sugar". We will then be able to heal and witness the true sale of honest everyday products. Thank you, and have a great day.
