Images and impressions, as they are seen in modern advertising and curated content, does have too much of an effect on people. The human brain is a well-oiled machine, and is designed to subconsiously interperet the world around us. Media can take advantage of this by tapping into these same hardwired instincts in order to manipulate people's thoughts on certain topics. This manipulation can often be done at a subconcious and difficult-to-control level, and use of these tactics should be regulated for the safety of the public. 
While some advertisement tricks are obvious, such as food advertisements showing off well-preserved food in good lighting to make it look as tasty as possible, others are a little bit more nefarious. For example, it's been proven that warm colors, such as red and yellow, increase appetite. This subconciously might cause the patrons to eat faster and leave quicker, allowing for the resturaunt to seat more patrons. You can see this color techniue being taken advantage of at places like Arbys and McDonalds. At the worst, however, this technique stir on a patron's hunger and cause them to purchase more food than they would in a resturaunt with cooler colors. It is immoral to use these primal, unavoidable trends in the human brain to manipulate patrons into spending more money. This is only one example of an abuseable pattern regocnition technique in humans. Other examples include people's pattern recognition in things such as music. Radio jingle ads intentionally try to tap into this musical pattern recognition to stay in the listener's brain, often out of the control of the listener and to the listener's annoyance. 
Opponents to this position may say that culling back these advertisment techniques is coddling too much. Nobody is forced into buying a product, and most advertisements are fairly blatant. They may say that if a person buys a product or position because of an advertisement they saw, that is entirely on the person and not the advertisement itself. However, as is clear with examples such as warm colors and appetites, it is not a matter of willpower. A person cannot will their body out of its natural response to things such as colors. Even things such as smiling are a univeral signal among humans. If someone's first impressions about two politicians were to see a smiling politician on T.V. next to a pouting or angry one, it is difficult, if not impossible, to shake the reasonable response that the smiling polititian is generally more happy and put-together, while the angry one is more emotionally driven. This reaction to a smile is subconcious, and humans have been smiling for thousands of years. 
It is unfair to ask the average person to "just ignore" advertisements and "see past" curated images, when millions of dollars worth of research have been put into curating these images specifically to tap into instincts humans have been developing for thousands of years. It is not a matter of willpower. It is a matter of biology and intense socialization. Therefore, I believe images in things such as advertisements should be monitored. Humans simply were not born with the ability to process this amount of curated imagery. Therefore, I believe images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. 
