Happiness is, in itself, complicated yet simple. There are certain ideas that spring to mind when it comes to the idea of happiness; winning a competition, finding true love, gaining money, or just general contentness, to name a few. The idea of happiness is something that is debated on whether it comes from within or from possessions and worth. I believe that while happiness can absolutely be achieved from helping others and being supportive of other's ambitions and dreams, it's the goals that people aim on for themselves that is where the happiness really is.

When people focus on themselves first and their own personal achievements, they can start honing in on their own self-worth. Growing up, and even now, I tend to put people's desires above my own. I would like to believe I don't do that as much anymore, but I want people to be happy. If nothing else, I don't want people to feel alone. Unfortunately, the problem with that is that I tend to neglect my own needs and wants. I will wind up suffering a little bit, but for me I just get joy out of helping people. Even with something as simple as a video game and helping someone accomplish something, it feels good. I would like to believe that improves my own self-confidence as well.

When I tend to focus on other people, however, it starts to become a game about comparisons; I see how I am in my life compared to theirs and I constantly browbeat myself because I always see situations where they are better off. Some of my friends have good jobs, a steady income, their own place, relationships, the lot. I tend to dwell and overthink and wonder what is wrong with me? Why haven't I found what I am looking for? When is it going to be my turn?

I am looking at comparisons to other people and stating that as the ideal, or as fact, or both. I am using them as a pedestal for me to reach, and when I fall short, I take it out on myself. I think it stems from the fact that my inner voice has been rather weak. I don't stand up for myself, and I have problems telling people how I really feel. I become indecisive.

I believe that people, deep down, want to live relatively simple lives. Most of them, anyway. They want to be surrounded by a group of people that love them, perform something they really enjoy doing, and just generally not be so uptight. I don't think it's asking for much. Being with friends, in an environment that is supportive, open, and relaxing, can absolutely facilitate happiness.

I think that happiness needs both to function in some capacity. By focusing on other people's problems and concerns instead of my own, I tend to get small when it comes to my own. If I focus on just myself, that can go the other direction and lead to an overinflated sense of self and cause alienation and increased narcissism. I do think that if one had to be the winner here, it'd be focusing on the self. There's a saying that "you can't pour love from an empty cup." Eventually, things can spread so thin and people can be pulled in so many different directions that it's hard to find time for the self. By being better on yourself, you can be better with others.
