Will you achieve more success by cooperation>? Or will you acheive more sucess by competiotion? I personlly believe that you achieve more success by cooperation. Why is this you may ask? It can be an easy anser or a complicasated answer. I will give you my anser. By cooperating with others you get their opinions as well as your own//.

You therefore will achieve more success buy cooperatinfg/. By listening to others ideas and their beliefs. You will achieve more. YOu will also have the addex benefit of making friends and have a healthier work enviroment. You learn to work better with others. We teach our childern taht cooperation is better than figting.

In competioion you csn always be butting heads with otheres. Yeah, it caaan be fun but is it worth losing friendships o veer? More fights can break out, some people are more comptetive thtan others. you sldo, font get the added beefit of making friends and gaining their perspectives. Lots of times competiotions can break out into fighting, is this what we want to teach pit children?

I trulu believe that cooperation is the key to having more success. Ultimately, it is your choice to choose. Friends or enemies? Yeah competions cn be a fun way to let off steam but is it really worth it? Cooperation makes you compromise, makes you think more. Of course this is my opinion and mine alonw. 

In conclusion, will you acieve more success by cooperation? will you achive more success bu compettion. Really it is entirely up to you. I just beleive that cooperation is better. Even if you are the type to like workign alone. Thos is what we teach out childeren to cooperate with pthers. yeah they sy competiotn is healthy but I believe only to a poingt. 

Ok this is not part of the essay but since apparently I cannot submit this, even though I feel my essay is done. I am assuming that I canat submit until the time is up. Figured I wou;d say that the biggest reason for mistakes, is bevcuse I had to re-learn how to type. I had my left middle finger amputated a few yeatrs agao. I wuse the backspace frequently when I typr, it is a habot. so I try not to while doing this but find it very difficult. I also probably shoulf not ne typing ths much because I have carpal tunnel in both wrists, and the only reason I am adding all this on is because my essay is donw and apparently I cannot just let the time run out because I get a warning.


