What's the secret to happiness? This is a centry's old question that is still debatable today. Some people believe happiness is found by trying to improve society's happiness as a whole rather than your own personal happiness. I personally believe that true happiness comes from making oneself happy and in return the whole of society and humanity will be happy.

Humanity today is bleak. There isn't a single day that passes where there isn't a murder, shooting, burglary, or other crime. In general society is unhappy. Miserable persay. I believe most people are worried about what society thinks and are trying to please everyone else and in return making themselves miserable and thus the reason for most of the crimes committed. If people would stop worrying about what someone else thinks about them and go for their dreams, they would never have the dreaded "what if" feeling of dispair. They would know without a doubt if their dream was accomplishable or not. For example, a teenager is considering their life career and college goals and tells its peers, parents, and teachers that they want to be an artist. Instead of encouraging this teens dreams, instead they critisize telling the teen that it's very unlikely to become a famous artist and how hard it is to make a living as an artist. The teen then decides to persue a business career, making society happy, but forever stifling thier own dreams and happiness. Who's to say this teen wouldn't have been the next Picasso, Da Vinci, or Monet? This teen will always have the burning desire to be the artist they are at heart but will never have the confidence to pursue their own happiness.

Some will say that by stifling this teenagers creativity when they did, they saved them the heartache of failing and misery of not being able to provide a decent life for it's family, and instead were able to be more productive to society as a whole with it's business career. I say again, how do we know thay weren't magnificent with a paint brush? How do we know our society didn't need the art this teen was capable of giving the world? How do we know the business this teen would grow to provide society would be legal and upstanding? How do we know that changing the direction of this persons life path was for the better of society and themselves? Simply put, we do not. We could never, as they could never know what is best for them without following their own path. 

Life is all about trials and errors. Falling flat on your face, and sometimes at just the right time, sailing to the moon and living amongst the stars! If you ask me, the secret to happiness is following your own dreams. Making yourself happy before worrying about anyone elses happiness. Then when everyone is happy, society as a whole will be happier.
