     Happiness generally comes from within. If you choose to live your life making others happy rather than yourself, you will never truly be happy. It is important to focus on yourself every once in a while to maintain the happniness you have. Being happy comes from doing things that you love, spending time with people you love, and being successful. Reaching personal goals can be a huge deal depending on what they are. Whether it be finishing school, making a family, or getting a new job in a position you worked for. These things can give you happiness, and focusing on other people's happiness can interfere with whatever personal goals you have for yourself.
     For example, if you live to make your spouse happy and not yourself, you will likely find yourself in an unhappy marriage. Another example is trying to keep your parents happy once you are an adult. This can skew your perception of how life should be and you could end up being unhappy in the end. Trying to keep your friends happy can lead to accepting plans that you don't want to and pushing your work to the side. I feel that these things can hinder ones motivation, and people's main focus should be themselves before others. You should always have more work put into your own happiness than others. Always focusing on other people's happiness can take away from your own joy. The people that rely on others to make them happy generally have something going on within themselves that stops them from making themselves happy. These are the people that need to really work on their personal goals and progress in life.
     The other side of this argument is that it is important to focus on making the people around you happy. This could be to maintain good relationships, avoid arguments, and be a people pleaser. If you are in a position where you have to work to keep the other person happy 24/7, understand that it is not healthy and you should leave the situation. Some people hate to see others happy, and people are attracted to those who care about their happiness. Some will say that it is selfish to focus on your own happiness, when that is not the case. If you are not a little selfish every once in a while, you will not be benefitted with acheiving your goals. There are a lot of people in the world who will try to get you down, and if you do not avoid these types of people, it will only hinder your own progress. This is why it is important to focus on yourself more than others, because others do not always have your best interest in mind.
     In conclusion, it is more important to focus on the happiness of yourself rather than others. You are the only contstant in your life and you should be your top priority. Focusing on others can make you forget about the things that make you happy in life. You do not want to get lost on the path to being successful. It is okay to sometimes focus on other peoples' goals and help them, it may make you pleased with yourself, but only in the short term. Your life is the long term and should continuously be worked on and improved. People should be well rounded and know how to make themselves happy, and if they have time for others, then help others as well. It should not be a priority though, as you are not living the other people's lives, you are living your own life and should pursue your own happiness more than anything else.
