     Happiness is something that many people strive for, and a common belief is that the meaning of life is simply to be happy. Happiness can come in many forms and it can revolve around the self or others. Many people gain happiness from other people's joy while others need to accomplish their personal goals in order to be happy. While there can be an individual difference in the search for happiness, overall there is a uniform path toward happiness that the majority of people follow. People are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals over the happiness of others because personal satisfaction is internal while other people's happiness is external and therefore less significant and meaningful.
     Internal happiness is extremely important and it revolves around personal goals. A person can find happiness by accomplishing their personal goals such as intellectual, familial, or work goals. For example, a person can find happiness by finding a life partner and having children if that is a personal goal of theirs. Another person might find happiness by finishing a big project at work that they have put a lot of time and energy into. These methods of finding happiness both revolve around personal goals and therefore, this means more than the happiness of others or the improvement of humanity. 
     The happiness of others and improvement of humanity are both important aspects to the quality of one's happiness. If someone is individually happy because they accomplished their personal goals, their happiness will be dampened if those around them do not share in that joy. Furthermore, the improvement of humanity as a whole might open new doors for ways that a person can achieve happiness, yet in itself will not lead to happiness. It is important to meet the individual's needs before the group's needs and this is how to find the highest quality of happiness.
     Many times, a person might not recognize the exact goal that they need to meet in order to reach happiness. Many people likely think that they can only find happiness by accomplishing one thing but they find that they are happy in completely other ways when they actually move through life. Life can be very unpredictable and therefore happiness is unpredictable. Happiness can vary day by day and it is something that requires consistent work to attain. If a person is surrounded by people and things that they love, they are more likely to remain consistently joyful.
     Focusing solely on other people's happiness can cause a person to get lost and forget their own feelings. It is easy to get caught up in the emotions of others and it is important to try to find a balance so that a person doesn't completely negate either their own or their family and friends' feelings. If a person solely focused on their personal goals, they would never find happiness because they would fail to find joy around them. However, if they never tried to fulfill their own goals or they simply had no goals, they would find their life to be meaningless which would also make happiness impossible.
     The belief that people an only be happy if they have a goal unrelated to their own happiness has some merit, as becoming fixated on happiness would cause a person to lose sight of the real thing. If a person lives by the rules of what they expect will lead them to happiness, they are unlikely to actually reach happiness in the end. However, most people are able to find a balance between finding a goal that they hope will lead them to happiness and actually finding that happiness. Goals change and life circumstances change, all of which can affect the path that people end up taking on their journey to happiness. It is common to have a goal and either change it or even randomly finding something new that makes a person happy along the way. The unpredictability of life is exciting and makes the jounrey toward happiness one worth taking. 
     Thinking too hard about how to be happy can distract from the end result of actually becoming happy. It would be easy to stress about how to find maximum happiness and how to live the most joyful life. Once a person lets go of that stress, they will have an easier time both finding happiness and seeing happiness around them. It is a joyful thing to see others be joyful, and an even greater joy finding that you yourself are truly, deeply happy. Letting life happen instead of worrying about how to accomplish every goal or make every last person smile is the best route toward happiness. Of course, it is always good to work hard and take pride in your work and goals, but it is also important to make sure that you enjoy the jounrey of life instead of merely looking forward toward the destination. Happiness can be an elusive thing, but once it is achieved, it is the greatest gift that life has to offer.
     In order for a personal goal to lead to happiness, it doesn't have to be overly specific or even meaningful. These goals can be small and daily such as getting a cup of coffee in the morning. They can also span over long stretches of time such as getting one's dream job. A goal can be general, such as to find love. Focusing on this personal goal, no matter what it is, can lead to true joy that can span an entire lifetime.
     It is easy to question how to be happy. It is the reason why many people live and it is something that is not always easily maintained. However, a person who only focuses on the happiness of people around them will be unable to reach happiness themself. There must be a balance between caring for the feelings of others and for one's own feelings. However, when one thing has to be prioritized in the search for happiness, it should be personal goals. A person must put themself first to fully find happiness, yet they must have other priorities as well. It is important to find a balance in life, and happiness is a joy that everyone should get to experience.
