Modern society thrives on materialism. Capitalism, in many countries, powers materialistic trends that are difficult to escape. While many might argue that materialism is inherently bad, one counterpoint which could be raised concerns personal identity. Many people find value in materialism as it informs their self expression and sense of self. Materialism allows individuals to project their identity in ways aside from spoken word. By buying into materialism and consumerism, people can broadcast their identities through fashion, home decoration, and much more. Criticizing society for being materialistic disregards this crucial fact and assumes those currently not participating in materialism are opting out due to a dislike of trends rather than their own economic circumstances. 

It can be argued that materialism has been viewed as a black and white issue. For example, people often find themselves believing materialism is totally bad or totally good. However, it is not something for which modern society should be criticized due to its positive factors. Without materialism, the world would likely be less creative and interactive. One might suggest that the issue at hand is not with materialism itself but with accessibility. Everyone should be able to express themselves through design and decoration no matter their means. At the same time, however, the creatives feeding into this consumption must be fairly paid for their work. This conflict, a result of the capitalistic system that fuels materialism, often tricks us into blaming materialism itself and therefore those who have the means to consume. However, it would be more productive to take a step back and address why certain people cannot participate in this process. One might find that the exclusion is a result of low wages or other socioeconomic harships. By extension, enabling disadvantaged groups to participate in materialism as a form of self expression could likely lead to a sense of empowerment.

In sum, materialism is not inherently bad; it is something in which everyone should be able to participate. However, modern society is exclusive and often restricts materialistic expression to those with the economic means to fully participate in the exchange. The world would be a brighter, more creative place if each person were empowered to express themselves through responsible materialism and consumerism. Materialism itself is not the root issue and should not be criticized in our society without this context. The creative and expressive aspects of materialism deserve to be embraced and to be made accessible to all. At the same time, those on the producing end must be fairly compensated and respected as workers. This balance might be difficult to strike in modern society but can be made possible through equatable wages, respect, a leveling of the socioeconomic playing field, and responsible consumption.
