In everyday human life people have decisions and choices to make which influence their drive to succeed. Some say the best driving force is competition and others feel cooperation is the better option. While there are times when both cooperation and competition can work to benefit a person in terms of success, cooperation is the better means of lasting success. A cooperative environment provides people with others that also have a drive to succeed in a given situation. Most often the more people you have working on a given task the quicker they will complete that task. The old addage two heads are better than one speaks to this situation plainly. In the long term people in a cooperative environment have far more benefits than those in a strictly competive one. By nature humans are social creatures which means that have a need to cooperate with others. Some might say that we are also competitive by nature but even many of our popular competitive enviroments such as sports or clubs are also cooperative as they most often consist of a team of people. People constantly make decisions whether to compete or to cooperate, but when they cooperate they have something to share with others, something that unites rather than divides. The ideas of unity and division are part of most aspects of society. Most people want to be part of something greater than themselves which is seen in the way we structure ourselves and our communities. Most often we choose to govern by cooperation as we see this as the best option. Naturally people ask advise from people they feel have knowledge or insight which is a form of cooperation. Conversely, competion in many forms causes division amongst those that are competing, it can cause people to act in a way that goes against their morals or ideas of fairness in order to succeed. Competiton cause divisiveness which by nature divides, and therefore will not lead to fulfillment with success. Success on its is own without fulfillment is empty. There is no doubt that a competetive environment has its place but in order to achieve lasting success cooperation is the better route. 
