Perception clouds reality and things may not always be what they seem. There are many aspects of a carefully crafted image where the entity that is creating that image is doing so in order to shield other people from the truth and reality behind that image, to 'pull the wool' over others' eyes in order to trick them into believing that image created is a reality, when in fact it is far from it.

One such instance of this that is very prevalent in today's political climate is the need for working unions. For years, companies such as Walmart, Amazon and Starbucks, among scores of others, have recognized the threat of a collective bargaining unit, and have vigorously engaged in propaganda in order to attempt to stop their workers from unionizing. They have railed against the cost of union dues, moved warehouses when they got wind of workers attempting to unionize, shut down entire stores where the company noticed that unionization was forming, and have spent millions of dollars in fighting unionization. These types of companies have put an onus on cultivating a facade that unionization is bad and workers would be better served in not doing so. In recent years; however, workers have realized that is the one power that they do have over their employers: themselves and their work ability. And they are starting to find inroads of success in their unionization. Even with this movement; however, there are still many people who are anti-union. These people are not just the management and owners of companies who would benefit from a lack of a union. These are people who are lower middle-class or worse who would benefit greatly from being part of a union. They have been bombarded with decades of anti-union rhetoric, though, and it has altered their perception as a result and those anti-union impressions have a long-lasting effect on those who are impressionable and some people will remain anti-union, no matter how much they are shown that they would benefit from unionization.

Another example of a carefully cultivated image that is starting to deteriorate is regarding a man: Elon Musk. For years, he touted his innovative way of thinking, from his plans in 2012 to put a human on Mars within 10 years, to his thoughts about the Hyperloop concept, to the way in which he ran his businesses, in particular Tesla and SpaceX. He spent a lot of money in creating this self-image that was appealing to others and other people just took at face value. Then, over the past year or so, he started doing things to show his true self and that many previous fans of his found off-putting. He became upset when his company didn't have the opportunity to save Thai people who were stuck in a cave. Musk was intensely jealous of the man who did save the people, so Musk's goal after the fact was to engage in a smear campaign against the man who saved the boys. And that smear campaign worked. He became embroiled in a scheme regarding Dogecoin where he grifted off unsuspecting people and even flaunted the fact that he was doing so on his Saturday Night Live appearance. He became involved in a war on Twitter, where he became flustered by the fact that he felt he was being censored and silenced by the website. His response: to put out a bid to take 100% ownership of the company. Twitter shareholders called his bluff, and now he is backtracking, trying to get out of buying the company that he overvalued. He has taken a hard-right stance on many issues now, showing his true colors. There are many online examples of people, who were once Musk fans, turning on him as a result of how unhinged the man has become with his recent words and actions. Yet, there are still those who will steadfastly defend Musk and stand behind him, no matter what he does or says.

These appearances and efforts show that perception is not always reality and that these perceptions that are meticulously created by those who would mean to control other people are oftentimes very difficult to be rid of. There are still many people who would benefit from unions who are staunchly anti-union. There are still many people who worship the ground Elon Musk walks on and who feel that he can do no wrong. The years of anti-union rhetoric by both the companies who are actively attempting to prevent unionization and the politicians they pay to hold the same view, years of Musk working to create a projected image of himself and his vision have rooted themselves in many people, have a profound effect on those who are impressionable and go to show that strong propaganda can very effectively distort reality at times.
