     I firmly belive that images and impressions have to much of an effect on people.  We see things all around us on a daily basis that appeal to our senses whether that is sight or smell that make something seem better then it actually is.  This leads us to make decisions purely based on what we think we see rather then what we actually see.  As we trust what we see we make decisions strictly based on these things and not sound judgements.


     Everytime we as consumers shop or when we make decisions we base our decisions on what we perceive to be reality.  We go to the store and see products that we see in our everyday life everyday.  These products may be more colorful to appeal to our visual senses.  It may look good to the eye but in reality the product is cheap and not made well or maybe it doesnt perform as well as it portrays or what we talk it up in our mind to be.  This happens in every facet of our lives.  This includes politics in our elections both city, state and government.  These individuals consistently spout rederick that appeals to what we want to hear.  Most of the time however this is just talk to get the vote.  None of these politicans or very few actually have followed through with what they said they would do.  This is a prime example of impressions of what we hear having an effect on us and they get the reward as a result.

     Alot of people will say you need to trust what people say or we need to trust that the product will do what it says.  I disagree with this statement.  I think it is on us as consumers and people who make decisions that may affect the greater good to be concious of what we make decisions on.  We need to look at reviews on products to ensure that we are getting quality products that do what they say they will do.  Its imperative that we in addition to this look at politicans past history.  What have they made decisions on in the past how did they vote.  Have they been wishy washy or have they  been steady in decision making.  This is why its imperative that we really look at what we say and do when it comes to decisions.

     This is why in my opinion images and impressions in our lives have so much of an effect on us as consumers.  I think that false advertising as it pertains to companies are not held accountable for their lies or stretching of the truth since its a matter of perception.  My views on something not working may not be your same views.  I dont think manafacturers and companies that make these peoducts or even politicans or public figures in our society are held to a high standard.  We as the people who make decisions need to ensure that we hold them or the companies accountable.  If we are able to do our due diligance and really look into products or look at public figures and do the legwork behind the decision we are better able to make more informative decisions which lead to better outcomes.  In doing it this way we can hold both public figures, politicans, and companies that make these products accountable for their lies, their stretching of the truth or exxagerations accountable.

