Some claim that happiness may be indirect correlation with the happiness of those around them, which can be seen in a typical ideologies of Christianity, for example. In Christianity believers choose to serve others in order to serve their god, thus deriving joy and ultimately happiness from their works and others' happiness. There are others who believe simply that doing good for other people makes them feel pleasure and happiness. Others argue, however, that their happiness comes from within, that is from pleasing themselves and themselves alone. This seems to be the more worthwhile claim, when deriving your own happiness from the happiness of others would cause only frustration in searching for a source of joy that is not controllable.

Humans are fickle creatures whose opinions and loyalties switch as often as they please, often without rhyme or reason. If one were to spend their entire lives consumed with the idea that happiness can only come from making others happy, they would feel happiness from some people and others would not give them the satisfaction of being joyful for their sake. One may argue that relying on their own perception of reality can pose diffiuclties in the joy-department as well. Since humans tend to change their ideas and loyalties, how would one be able to be happy when they are sad? How could one derive pleasure from themselves when they cannot make themselves be happy if they are not? It is true that one cannot be happy all of the time, however one can predict the changes in their own attitude or opinion and know the reason. With other people people, you can't predict mood swings in others, therefore you may have a long stretch in which you are not happy as a result of someone else's unhappiness. 

Relying on a person whose mood you cannot control, nor understand all of the time, as a source of happiness is illogical and always subject to change. It is not possible to dictate how one may feel about another's actions, therefore relying the fickle perceptions of others cannot be a sturdy foundation from which one could find their sole source of happiness. 
