Cooperation or competition?  What a great question.  This question is very complex; however, if you ask people individually, they might come up with different answers.  Some people thrive in a competitive setting while others fail or quit.  Cooperation on the other hand is a sure bet on people succeeding, but competitive people, might find cooperation to be boring and not be as motivating.  The only way to solve this dilema, would be to involve people and have them choose which environment would suit them best.

Competitive people thrive when they are put against a person or a group of people.  The urge to win is what drives them to success.  These individuals will do almost anything to accomplish their goals and to be the first to the finish line.  They are outgoing and extroverts and they want the spotlight when they win in a competition.  This is great for those inviduals that thrive in this environment; however, there are those who see competition as a hindrance and they might shy away from these actitities.  

People who don't work well under pressure will surely fail in a competitive setting.  Because of this, toxic environments develop when people are competing against one another; thus, creating a horrible ennvironment where morals and rules go out the door.  People can get into trouble and even excluded from the group comletely because of these negative behaviors.  

Cooperation on the other hand, is a way better form of having people work together to accomplish a goal.  Cooperation doesn't create toxic environments and people are willing to work with one another to achieve a goal.  People are more willing to help each other and not go behind someone's back to achieve their goal.  With cooperation, the goal is shared amongst everyone and not just an individual or a group of people.  Although, some people think cooperation can be boring, and competive people might not strive for the best results, cooperation is the best form to allow people to work together and not cause toxic environment.  

With cooperation there is no added stress that might cause people to break down and break the rules.  Some might be concerned that there is no motivation in cooperation, but having people work together allows that motivation to come within each person.  Everyone is striving for the same goal and people are usually inclinded to help one another in order to succeed.    

Competition and cooperation are great motivaters for people, but in order for people to succeed in either environment, people should be asked to choose which environment they would be more comfortable working in.  I think supervising and making sure people are working positively in either environment is key and will ensure that toxic environments aren't developed.  
  
