Happiness should be achieved by helping others in our society or the world at large. By working together to make sure everyone has shelter, enough to eat and fulfilling work we are making society better for others and for ourselves.

There are many people in the world who are selfless and altruistic. They love to help other people. Helping others gives them meaning and purpose. They experience joy from taking care of others. This I would call "selfless happiness". People like this are probably rare.

Others feel they should find happiness in caring for their friends and family. Nurturing close relationships and forming bonds with others. These people tend to form groups of close friends and stay close to their family. I guess this could be called "familial happiness". These people are only happy when they are caring for and contributing to their groups. They also tend to go along with whatever their group does and believes whatever their group believes. This seems to be a common and very human way of being. Humans like to form up into tribes and defend their tribes against outsiders.

Finally, there is the individualist. They are only happy when they take care of their own needs and the needs of their family. I would call these people "selfish pseudo-happy". These are the conservatives. They don't care about what other people are doing. They believe in traditional values and are afraid of any kind of change. While focusing on their own needs seems to make them happy, I think these are the least happy of people. They hoard their resources and keep a watchful eye out for anyone who might come and take anything from them. Other people are lacking in morals, are lazy, they are corruping our youth and our way of life.

Of all of these, I think the selfless people are probably the happiest of all. There is great satisfaction in getting away from your self and giving to others. I would aspire to be a selfless and altruistic person. I think that is where true happiness lies.

In answer to the prompt; people are happiest when they focus on the happiness of others.
