While it is a noble idea to work for the good of humanity and promote universal happiness, this cannot be done unless one can first be happy as an individual. I will show here that it is a fairly futile taks to attempt to improve the world unless there is an inner stability and satisfaction in the person how makes the effort.

Many people hope to leave a positive mark in the world during their lifetime. This is a worthy aspiration. However, individuals who are not happy in and of themselves are seldom able to improve the lives of others. This is because achieving any true measure of improvement in others is incredibly difficult when it is not present in oneself. Essentially, people can't project, teach, and instill something effectively if they do not possess it.

Some would argue that personal satisfaction and/or happiness is unnecessary when it comes to instilling those qualities in others. They say that there are many notions that can be grasped on an intellectual level that do not require personal experience. For instance, a teacher can give an insightful lesson on the qualities one must possess to be a good basketball player even if the basketball skills of the teacher are poor. This is true, but does not address knowledge that is not rote or learned through books and lectures. 

There is an intangible quality that shines forth in those with inner peace and happiness that simply cannot be duplicated in those that do not possess it. Without the inner balance and fulfillment that comes from first achieving one's own personal goals, attempts to persuade others to work for some lofty goal are mere histrionics. 

Perhaps the greatest example of this comes from individuals who have overcome personal demons. Twelve-step programs do not let people who have never struggled with substance abuse serve as sponsors. This is because they cannot, on the deep level necessary to produce meaningful change in the person they are sponsoring, grasp how to help. They can offer helpful suggestions, try to visualize how to be a good sponsor, and try to imagine what it must have been like to be addicted to substances, but it falls short. 

There is no way to compensate for experience and having conquered a problem on one's own. That accomplishing of a personal goal provides an insight and a change in the very nature of a person that allows the individual to then spread what has been learned in a meaningful way. In some ways, it is akin to a religious experience. When considered in this manner, it makes sense, as only the those truly devout to their religions will produce long-lasting effects in the lives of others looking for spiritual enlightenment.

To conclude, there is no substitute for authenticity. To produce real, meaningful change in the world requires a happiness that must first be achieved by an individual before attempting to pass it on to others. Accomplish those personal goals. Put in the time to develop likes, dislikes, a sense of self, and a sense of fulfillment before trying to take on the world.
