Modern society cannot be criticized for being materialistic. Materialism can be both a positive thing and a negative thing.
I believe materialism entices someone to work harder to acquire more possessions.  This can be positive to society as a whole.  The more someone has, it could be suggested, that the more they can contribute to society as a whole. 
Negatively, if someone is only focused on materialistic things, and does not "pay it forward", it can bring forth negativity and jealousy.

For me, personally, being able to afford materialistic possessions is low on my list. It would be nice, and I would just be satisfied, being able to pay my bills and to get ahead once in awhile.

Working hard to have materialistic things is an accomplishment, however, family, health, and relationships is what should be first and foremost. If family members put more emphasis on the materialistic things that they have first, it can put a damper on a relationship if another family member happens to be struggling to make ends meet.
For me, I would feel a bit intimidated, family member or not.

Society does not always see how the materialistic possessions are acquired, and therefore, are not aware of the hard work that went into something.

I think, materialism can also be a product of your environment and your upbringing.  If you have parents that only show proudness for what they have, I believe, many children are not aware that hard work will assist in the affordability of certain posessions.

I think society plays an important role on how materialism is seen. Some people, who are jealous, can feel that someone may not deserve all they have. This breeds hatefulness, spitefulness and crime.

In closing, I thing it is better for society to be materialistic, because, for the most part, it is positive to have possessions, as long as it is not the only thing that makes someone feel that that is the measurement of success. 
Love, relationships, family and health should always be first.  Helpfulness should be displayed from people who have possessions and are living comfortably. Assisting others shows that there are people who have compassion, empathy and thoughtfulness for others as well as society as a whole. 
