Most people are at least somewhat materialistic. There is a reason for that and it's not always a negative character trait. People need certain materials to survive. Living in a community, there is some competition for the necessary components of daily life. Because of this, people need to be aware of what they have and what they need. For reasons that are as varied as the collections of rich assets that they collect, some people become locked in a type of addiction when thinking of material aquisitions. This becomes a serious problem for society. When a few people become black holes of resources, when they take so much more than they need that there is little left for everyone else, we are faced with a critical issue.

A good example of the problem is clearly illustrated by the inequality in wealth, in the United States. The problem is well documented and the charts numerically document the large divide in resource allocation, within the US. The poor continue to lose ground, while the rich accrue resources at an alarming rate. A simple search of public resources, through any reputable search engine on the internet, will prove my point. There is far too much wealth greedily locked into the asset columns of the ultra rich. The US system is designed so that the most materialistic of us become magnets for more wealth. Through this illogical process, the problem gets worse every day.

I would propose that a radical restructure of the American system is long overdue. The materialistic nature of US society is baked in, through decades of corporate friendly politics and total apathy toward the economically deprived from our most powerful governing bodies. Any real, anylitical study into how we found ourselves riding a runaway train to total economic devastation will unambiguously draw a road map back to the 1980's, in American politics. The entire political system changed, overnight, to no longer be a government of the people. The government, led by Ronald Reagan, began a war with the poor. Demonizing the most vulnerable members of American society became a strength for American politicians. The rich became heros, at the same time. They would be the ones who would save the country from socialism. 

They didn't call it socialism, at the time, because communism was a scarier word. They managed to associate any community assistance to the poor with communist principals. The president sold this snake oil to the majority of the American people. He told them that anything they might need from their community was a request for communism. People were told that they should work to build strong corporations, without concern for themselves. In this way, they could count on rewards later on, once the corporations were strong enough to hand out rewards.

Corporations are monster materialists. All they do is consume. We are told that we are living in a recession. Nothing can be done about the lack of resources. Yet, major corporations are posting record profits. There is no lack of resources, that is a lie. The resources are locked away in the assets of corporations and the ultra rich. This is not a sustainable path.
