Happiness is sought by everyone. We spend our entire lives chasing it, but there are those who find it more easily than others. Ultimately, each individual seeks balance, and those who go looking for it in the wrong direction often find themselves wondering why they are not happy. 

I will use marriage as a prime example. Today, more and more couples are divorcing than they did fifty years ago. We can use the common excuse of financial or sexual issues--and while these can't be dismissed--they are only fragments of the entire issue at hand. While focusing on personal goals is an important aspect of growth and maturity, true happiness lies within serving others, and in this example, our spouse. 

In the course of a marriage, we ask ourselves, "what can my partner do for me?" and we live by the statement, "I deserve to be happy." However, discarding this question and statement and instead exchanging it for, "what can I do to make my partner happy?" and "my partner deserves to be happy" brings far more satisfaction--especially if both partners have this outlook. If we wake up each day with the intention of serving those we love, be it our spouse, God, children, career, our community, or friends, happiness will find us because there is true satisfaction in making others happy.

When we fix our minds on a personal goal and abandon other's happiness, we lose sight of our purpose. Happiness may be fleeting, or a watered-down version. So many today believe that serving ourselves first is more important than those around us. When we adopt this mindset, a marriage is destined to fail. A relationship cannot thrive without self-sacrifice. So often, we get confused by the meaning of happiness and where to find it that we end up wandering down different paths, espeically when we're only trying to make ourselves happy. This leads to depression, or worse, disillusionment. 

Instead of merely focusing on personal goals, we should balance our lives with self-sacrifice and serving those around us. In a marriage, we should strive to be worthy of our spouse's love and consistently ask ourselves how we can be better, so they might be happier. We should aim to aid our community, serve the Lord, and seek higher knowledge. In this, there is an abundance of happiness while fulfilling our own ambitions. 

In conclusion, happiness is a choice. But how we obtain it matters, so that an individual may experience it to the fullest. 




