In society we seem to focus on one thing more than others and that is how we look. We make sure we present ourselves in a way that we want others to see us. When someone goes in for an interview they make sure they dress to impress, because if you don't then even if you are very qualified you may not get the job. When you go for a date you make sure you look nice for the other person, in hopes they find you attractive. However I think that as a society we put to much pressure on what our image and impressions are and how that can be a negative.
When we look in magazines, watch tv, or just see an advertisement, we are usually presented with someone who looks perfect. A lot of time that impression of what people should look like has a pretty negative effect. So many times have women been compared to the beautiful model in the magazines, even though the picture has been fixed up to make the model look as perfect as she can and what society wants her to look like. It gives a lot of women and young girls a complex because no matter how hard they try they can never look like that model. Same for men, theres the very muscular and tan man they use for images and even if they try they can't acheive that look. Even though we know that as people that these pictures are fixed in photoshop people will still think that is how we should look.
There is also the fact that we want people to look their best always, people who look the best usually are more popular to people. When it comes to certain things we will pick people that are more attractive, that look the best, because it is more pleasing. I know there will be people that will argue that there have been people that have prospered even though they didn't look the best and yes that is very true, but there are many examples of people winning or getting by just because they look better. It is also been shown that people who look the best have gotten away with things because someone liked how they look.
I think that we should focus more on peoples abilities and skills, so many times do I believe we've had people get jobs, win competitions, have a place in our government, that looked good but were way less qualified than someone else. I have personally been turned down for a promotion at a job I worked at for years and was very qualified for. Instead another coworker, one that worked there less time and that I even trained on the job got it because they were someone who has been dressing very nice and was a lot prettier than I am and the male supervisor took a liking to her instead. This kind of thing happens a lot the more attractive or better dressed person will be hired over someone else.
Incuclusion I think that we as a society would prosper more if we focused less on the way we look. I think that it would not only help with mental health and self esteem, but also I believe the qaulity of life would be better. When we start hiring people more qualified, or voting people in, or just not focusing on images we would just be happier in general. When we stop putting pressure on people to look their best I think we can focus on other things and not having to worry about what people think of you just because the way you look, I also think people will learn that just because someone doesn't look the best doesn't mean they aren't an awesome or fun person to be around, I think people would connect more if they didn't care about looks. We would just be a better society in general if we didn't have to worry about our images and impressions.
