When you step foot in professional life it is a totally different experience from the acedamic life even though acedamia is really competitive, there is no comparision with when you get into the work force. When we are working our daily jobs and trying to do the best in what we do, we have to follow one of the two basic ways a company promotes its work culture ; Competition or Coorperation. While both have their pros and cons, which i will be discussing here shortly, everyone has their favorite way of working. Before i provide details on both here is some info on what they actually are.

Competition is when employees within a company are being ranked against each other where the higher ranked person would be considered more efficient and more valueable for the company. Although this ranking might not be "official" but the manager is making year end notes of how everyone is performing compared to the other.  There is a constant bar that the employees have to meet and if someone falters it would be very obvious that he is a liability for the company and at a point where the company is trying to reduce its workforce it would be easy to pick the individuals who are lacking. This constant fear is something that is not very healthy for certain people and they would not be able to perform at the best of their abilities even though they are great at what they were hired for, while at the same time some people who are not great at their jobs are amazing at showing it off to the higher leadership. 

Cooperative environment is where employees work together towards a common goal and they work as a team and jointly work out issues and at the end of the day the win is the win for the whole team and not for a single individual. This creates an air of friendliness and team work and though it has its own issues this is a more laid back way of working. 

I, as an employee, have worked in both of these environments and i personally prefer the cooperative environment because of the nature of my work. I do understand that some professions would benefit more with the competitive way of working specially the ones that are based on sales and commission and companies need to know who is the most valueable asset of the team and who to reward for a stellar performance at the end of the year. Insurance companies and retail companies would use this approach more as it suits their way of doing business. 

I have been working on different projects as a network engineer in a huge telecom company and mostly our work has to do with team work and as soon as there is a competitive air to the work, that is when things start falling apart as people start becoming territorial and start to keep the knowledge to themselves to get ahead instead of helping the team. I have recently been part of such a venture and it was really demotivating and hard to be a part of that team where people dont trust each other and there is an air of animosity for everyone is trying to lead the project and take credit and make sure that they are more visible to the leadership and they are recognized for the work that they might not have even done. 

In departments like IT and Networks, where employees dont have direct contact with the customers i feel cooperation is the way to go because the field is so vast that everyone understands that no one person can be a know it all. He would have their own strengths and weaknesses and some people are not very comfortable sharing their opinions in a meeting. In a cooperative world those roles can be designated and an introvert can stay where they are comfortable and just be themselves while an extrovert can convey the whole project to the upper leadership while recognizing the work done by the introvert. With cooperation there is no hogging all the credit and credit is given where it is due. This cooperative approach is also great when it comes to teaching a new hire and training them as employees would be willing to teach the other what they know and not worry about the new hire replacing them down the line. 

With all the pros of cooperation i have also seen the downside which is mainly that after a while it becomes such a relaxed environment that people start taking advantage of the situations and they would not exert themselves as much as they would when they started off new and after a while when everyone knows everyone it would just become a slow process which, in the longer run, would hurt the company and it would impact the progress towards a goal. Being competitive would keep everyone on their toes and everyone would be working extra hard to make sure they are on the top of the list of good employees even though they would step on some foot on their way up, that would be a quicker process and no one would be able to slack and relax because they would always know that someone else would be working and trying to knock them off the pedestal.

In the end as a conclusion i would say both approaches have their advantages and disadvantages and depending on the job role and the kind of company in question a hybrid approach would be a great way where employees would know that even though there is no competition, the higher leadership knows who is working above and beyond and who is going the extra mile to take the company to a better place and employees would also know that if they reach out to a person for some help they would whole heartedly help them without the worry that someone would be resistant to help them out. Competition is good to a point where it is healthy and there is not a cut throat kind of situation where people are ruthless and would be willing to throw fellow collegues under the bus just to get ahead in management eyes. In such cases the productivity goes down the drain and the company suffers.
 
