Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. I see it a lot in my young adult children. They see things on social media and think that the things they see in other people is how they should look and behave. It has made for some periods of feeling not good enough or less than compared to other people.

An example of fake appearances can be seen in numerous places.  One example is on social media. You have celebrities like the Khardashians for example who have had every part of their body worked on by plastic surgeons. Now young girls think in order for men to find them attractive they have to be totally perfect.  Everyone has to have a huge butt, a perfect shaped nose, a tiny waist and the right makeup. Everyone has to have excessively long eyelashes and long manicured fingernails to be attractive. 

Another example of fake appearances on social media are the people who paint pictures of their lives as absolutely perfect. Their kids are perfect. Their home is perfect. They look great. They go to the coolest places. They have tons of friends. They never, ever have any problems. This makes others think why aren't my kids perfect? Why is my house a mess? Why did my car break down today, that never happens to my friends. They are perfect, what is wrong with me.

A problem with chasing perfection is it has led to a society that is never satisfied. They are not happy with what they own, they are striving for the latest and greatest newest version. It makes it hard to build a real relationship with someone when one or both people are focused on the superficial and not on substance. Chasing perfection and ignoring reality creates disatisfaction with the simple pleasures in life. Its not enough to enjoy your spouses company at home, you need to be out at the hottest place and be seen. Additionally this persuit is very expensive and does not result in wealth generation for the future.   I highly suggest taking a step back, reprioritizing what is important and stop being dazzled by the fake, shiny objects.

In summary, it is extremely dangerous to buy into the fake images we encounter. May I suggest heading outdoors and enjoying the natural beauty found out in nature. This can then be incorporated into daily living. Appreciating what is real, what God gave us in the world.

