I do not think it is fair to criticize society in general for being materialistic. Instead, it is far wiser to criticize millionaires and billionaires who lavishly spend on themselves while the Internal Revenue Service fails to recieve taxes from those very wealthy people and those same wealthy people also fail to donate to registered charities. The very powerful, ultra wealthy billionaire class and United States politicians making millions of dollars force the vast majority of Americans in the middle, lower, working and working poor classes to buy things to keep us happy. Besides, without any possesions to make humans happy, life would be beyond depressing. However, there should be some kind of penalty for being ultra wealthy while not helping others get a chance to move up the economic ladder. 

Look at the pandemic all of us have been through, along with the 2008 recession. Nancy Pelosi literally laughed on James Corden's late night CBS talk show and spoke about her freezers and refrigerators being filled with premium "designer" ice cream, then showed ice chests full of those desserts. At that precise moment, tens of millions of Americans were either being let go from jobs or having their hours cut because businesses could not afford to stay open and risk employees and customers being infected. For people who were already unemployed prior to the pandemic, Pelosi's display was even more sickening considering many major American cities saw people stand in line at makeshift food banks because people were near or fully broke. 

Additionally, it is not fair to blame just one political party for average citizens being trapped in an endless, losing race to buy more things in order to survive. Republican politicians have been generally notorious to cut spending on vital programs like Medicare and Medicaid for decades, and this trend continued during the zenith of the pandemic as well as afterwards. Republican lawmakers usually have an easier time hiding their wealth because unlike Pelosi, few Reoublican politicians appear on liberal leaning Democratic hosted late night talk shows. The media is also to blame, constantly promoting products and how everyone needs a lot of them to be happy. 

Millionaires also hurt the working class and poor, whether they intend to or not. I cannot think of a single celebrity, save for perhaps Dolly Parton, who either gave or organized fundraisers for people from right before the pandemic in 2019 unril now in mid-2022 to help those without food or shelter. While it is true that many millionaire celebrities and two or three billionaires do anonymously give money to registered non profits, most millionaires probably didn't donate food money or supplies to the average citizen during the pandemic. This further drove ordinary people who were not famous into hoarding entire cartons of toilet paper, paper towels and water during the pandemic. These ordinary people probably were not greedy. Instead, they knew they had to just survive for weeks or months and the factories closing during the spring of 2020 led to supply shortages. 

We wouldn't have to produce and consume as much stuff as the average American of any race or gender does if the political class and millionaire and billionaire class of celebrities and businesspeople didn't abuse their power to make themselves richer through things like tax cuts and insider stock trading plans. Instead of blaming the average American citizen who works very hard and gets little money in return for their efforts, the real harm is done by the political elite in Washington, singers and actors who pretend to be "woke" and a media with an obvious lack of diversity in political alliegances. These greedy forces are the real reasons why Americans are forced to be materialistic and unless that power structure drastically changes, ordinary citizens will be trapped into spending more and more cash on essential items than ever before.
