There's little debate that we live in the most materialistic time in history. People are selfish to the core - they care mostly about their social media presence as well as their petty collections of various things. I believe that modern society should be criticized for its materialism to the point where we should actively search for ways to reverse this trend. There are three reasons why I believe this: materialism (1) leads to seflish and narcissistic tendencies; (2) can cause feelings of inadequacy and depression in others; and (3) diverts attention away from activities that will lead to longer-term fulfillment or the survival of the human race.

First and foremost, materialism is a major avenue for narcissistic and selfish tendencies. Instead of finding self worth in their hobbies or passions, materialistic people try to focus on amassing the best things in order to signal their superior status to others. People want to be better than others without openly admitting it. And every time they see someone else getting their validation, they crave that which they are not receiving. Validation becomes their drug as well. This sort of focus on external validation is the core of narcissism, called "narcissitic supply". Everyone seems to be chasing it. As a society, we are enabling these narcissistic tendencies to such an extent that people are becoming desensitized to it and practically believe that they should behave this way or be ignored completely. Nobody admires someone else for who they are or what ideas they hold, but instead, what they own or can bring to the table in a selfish exchange.

Second, materialism causes many people to feel inadequate or unfilfilled, which is contributing to the epidemic of depression that we all witness every day. It is no secret that mental health issues are more prevalent than ever before, with few people doubting the fact that we are facing a serious and acute mental health emergency. Every time a young person scrolls through social media and sees someone living an amazing life that they could never have, or amassing things they can't afford, they feel inferior and become demotivated. They feel that nothing they could ever accomplish will be good enough. Some may even be put down for their inability to have what others enjoy. Men, for instance, are realizing that many women want someone with extensive goodies that signify status - most of the wealth is horded by the top 1 percent, so the bottom 99 percent can never compete in the materialism rat race. Case in point: hip hop culture, "gamer" collectivism, or third-wave feminism, which tells women to embrace materialism and careers in lieu of a wholestome family. Many men feel lonely as a result, and many women feel unfulfilled and don't bother dating "inferior boys" because society teaches them to care about things and careers more than people.

Third, materialism is a huge diversion from more pressing concerns. It's a destructive distraction in the excess levels that we are currently seeing. We are dealing with massive problems nowadays and there aren't enough people who actually care. If people are more concerned with accumulating things and chasing status, they are not attending to serious matters like the environment, inflation, warfare, addictions, sexual objectification, massive wealth inequality, and so forth. If we keep running this rat race and putting money into the pockets of the wealthy few, are we ever going to truly get ahead? Our self worth should be intrinsic, not extrinsic. The more we feed the corporations, the less we value ourselves.

A legitimate counterargument to these points is that materialism in and of itself is harmless, and that these negative traits will surface regardless of the society. This is partially true, but by enabling and embracing the behavior, we are making it easy for narcissistics, shallow people, and young and impressionable individuals to not change and pursue self-destructive tendencies. Another counterargument is that materlalism helps bolster the economy by preventing people from hoarding their money. Although partially true, I think that people would find ways to spend their money anyway - perhaps on ways to improve themselves without the need for beauty or hoarding. The economy will still thrive, but it will shift into more wholesome areas. 

In conclusion, materalism at these modern levels is bad, but the concept itself is okay in small doses. It's fine to have a video game collection or a nice possession here and there, but it should never be your priority and we should never prioritize it over real and wholesome human values like diversity, kindness, teamwork, companionship, and so forth. We need to start caring about each other, and I don't mean just our pets or our digital companions - humans need to get back to the old ways and start caring about other humans instead of just their own image. It's one of those rare concepts that will force us to look to the past for how to behave in the future.
