Indeed, I feel that cutting edge society ought to be scrutinized for being excessively materialistic.  We depend such a great amount on our gadgets.  We likewise have gone to cash and materialistic items to keep us cheerful. This is not generally the situation for everybody, in any case, it is speculation we can make about current culture.  I dread that in a couple of year, we might lose our feeling of human instinct totally and become materialistic cyborgs.

Despite the fact that innovation has been amazing contribution to society, individuals have cased it too simple to even consider doing to practically anything on gadgets. Kids are beginning to do straightforward expansion and deduction on mini-computers.  Wherever you look, individuals are on their cells, which are additionally turning out to be so absurd they are losing their main role as telephone. Most telephones presently incorporate full consoles, portable web, contact screens, cameras, and even applications, where the main thing they really need is the actual telephone.

we are likewise so consumed via vehicles, garments, and other material items.  I will be quick to concede the I fall under this classfication. There is simply something entracing about vehicles and garments, which cause me to feel like I want to have however much cash as could resonably be expected so I can purchase the most elite.  I surmise this has something to do with contest and attempting to dazzle my companion.  but on the other hand it's far beyond that. The strong beauty that accompanies a wonderful, sumptuous vehicle never neglets to leave me stunned.  The varities and surfaces of so many garments is so lovely to me. So I suppose you could call me materialistic. 

So despite the fact that we as a general public truly are excessive materialistic, for some it is something substantially more significant than that. While we are going down a hazardous way, I live more in feeling for dread towards our reliance on innovation moreso than our reliance on other material items.  ideally, in a couple of years, we can in any case live pieces of our lives without having to depend on innovation totally.
