People say money doesn't buy happiness, but what they fail to realize is that it does buy comfort and power. In a world that's becoming increasingly materialistic, should the citizens that reap the rewards of capitalism and the luxuries it affords turn inward to reflect on the harm it does to their environment, mental health, and their fellow man? The materialism plaguing modern society should be criticized. It's one of the main drivers in the hoarding of wealth and rampant income equality facing the world's nations today. 

While advanced nations suffer from cultural rot that materialism breeds, poorer nations pay the highest cost. The modern slave trade rides on the back of the current form of capitalism. One of the largest perpetrators is the Nestle corporation. The cocoa harvested for their chocolates is done largely by a slave force. Nestle themselves has admitted this, saying that the cost of their chocolates would increase if the businesses they sourced their cocoa from were to turn away from slavery. Many of the slaves harvesting the cocoa for the chocolate chips you use to bake your cookies have never even tasted the chocolate their labor produced. 

Rampant materialism and "Keeping up with the Joneses" distracts many people in the first world on focusing what truly matters, their friends, family, and community. Man is inherently a social creature, and we have been neglecting the importance of social interactions for the sake of competing with our neighbor to flaunt who has the most trinkets and baubles. Showing off on social media is the new pastime at the cost of our mental health.

The environment also suffers greatly from unchecked materialism. Our once pristine oceans are now littered with garbage. Sea life is now tangled in nets of trash from items we never needed or even cared about. All of that suffering has just become the cost of doing businesses. 

A person could make the claim that materialism has made our lives better, because we have microwaves and televisions and laptop computers. Should we measure our lives by our conveniences? As it stands now, we work more hours than medieval peasants. We spend less time with our loved ones and less time having true experiences. When you're on your death bed are you going to reminiscence about your favorite trinket or the relationships you cultivated? The piles of items we gathered mean nothing, and do great harm to our society.
