There is a slippery slope between the concepts of achieving success through competion or through cooperation. There is a long standing argument on whether the path to success is best achieved through competition or cooperation? While healthy and fair competition can benefit any individual, it also has many negative consequences whereas cooperation can lead to success in all aspects of life.

People are capable of accomplishing more success in not only their careers, but also in their personal lives when they focus on cooperation with others. People who only focus their actions on competing against others, often lose their ability to successfully work in group settings. People that strive to beat out others to gain personal success often find themselves angry and feeling hostile. This also leads people to the mindset of a "me only" mentality, using self-serving tactics. A "competition only" mindset can also create self-doubt in individuals when they do not come out on top. Cooperation is not only healthy and creates a positive enviornment for people to succeed with one another instead against one another, but can also be a positive gateway for success in their personal lives as well. When you are cooperating to achieve a common goal, you promote harmony and support.

Many argue on the other hand, that competition is the only way to achieve success because you force yourself to constantly be at your best and improve. The argument against cooperation is the saying that: "not everyone deserves a trophy," and you need to learn how to lose in order to become better at winning. Essentially, if you want to be successful you have to learn the best ways to win or you do not deserve to win.

While there is validity behind both sides, I argue that competition only leads to self-serving motivation which can result in feelings of jealousy and selfishness. Cooperation not only teaches you to work in an enviornment with different people and ideas, but can foster positive action in other life aspects. For example, those who practice cooperation are more likely to treat people they meet and people they know with more respect rather than seeing them as someone they need to beat or surpass. You can still engage in a little healthy and respectful competition when you know the importance of cooperating with other. 


