Sometimes, appearances are more important than actions.  We are surrounded every day my media representations that are more fact than fiction. It is especially apparent in the political sphere.  Oftentimes, what a politician's stance is perceived as is much more important that the actions that define what he or she actually believes.

These images we are exposed have obfuscated the line between what is real and what we are lead to belive is reality.  Critical thinking skills are in short supply as the media's job becomes more and more apparent.  It is as if insead of presenting facts, they present inflammatory emotions intended to lead the viewer to an indented conclusion intead of letting the viewer assess the facts and come to his or her own conclusion.

The solution to this is to check out from the current media.  As long as we continue to support their disingenous actions, nothing will change.  Until there is more transparency and we are allowed to form our own conclusions based on facts and evidence, the disparity will remain.  There are too many echo chambers online where people cultivate their view of reality and only allow others that think the same to enter.  A litte disparity goes a long way in pushing this critical thought.

There is a common misconception that we need to be in complete agreement with everbody on every topic or that it's rude to disagree with people.  In fact a healthy discourse need not create a drift.  The problem is we've lost touch with that aspect of polite and friendly discourse and many seem to choose to make disagreement a very hostile experience.  All of this makes false impressions even easier to pass onto viewers because now they are too busy bickering to analzye the facts in front of them.

 Only by removing this biased intrustion of the media will we be able to truly see the actions of these politicians, entertainers, and public figures.  As it turns out, actions indeed are louder than words and it's time to look beyond crafted appeals to emotion on teleprompters to see what intentions truly are.   
 
