Where does true happiness in life come from? This is one of the biggest and most important questions in life. This is what people strive for. What is the point of life without happiness? Some spend their whole lives trying to answer this question. But, where does that true happiness come from?
Happiness can be different for many people. I do not believe that it is the same for everyone. Everyone has their own hopes and dreams and personal goals in life. Things they believe will help them achieve happiness and meaning in their life. Some spend their lives trying to achieve these goals and find what they are looking for. Others may find happiness without focusing on it. By focusing on things such as the happiness of others, or the improvement of humanity. But, are these things really that different? If your passion lies in the happiness of others, or even humaanity as a whole, is that not the same as your own personal dreams?
I believe both of these things can be one and the same. These things are intermingled, which I have seen in my own life. For the longest time I wanted to be a mother, to have a family of my own. I believed this is what would help me find true happiness in my life. Once I achieved these goals, although I am happy to have a family, it is not always sunshine and roses. Things can still be very tough, life gets hard, there is much stress. Nothing ever stays perfect and life, you have to work and out effort into anything to achieve the results you desire, and I believe this is true to life, just as it is to achieving any other goal in life. Yet, I hold onto my happiness in seeing the happiness in my children and my husband. By making their lives better, this makes my life better. 
As important as it is to follow your dreams and do whatever it takes to make those dreams come true, it is also important to not get so caught up in those dreams that you forget to live and just experience life along the way. Happiness can be found in the most unexpected places. What is the meaning of life if you are not happy living it? Find what makes you happy, and don't ever let it go. Whether it be something big, or the smallest, seemingly insignificant thing, if it makes you happy, it is not insignificant. Live your life, and when your dreams seem like you may never reach them, it doesn't mean you have to give up on them, but just remember, you may find a new dream along the way. We are all changing and growing and learning about ourselves each and every day. What you think you may want could one day turn into something completely different. If you stay true to yourself, you will find what makes you happy in life, whether it be what you always wanted, or something completely different than what you could have ever imagined. There is nothing more important in this life than being happy and enjoying it, and whatever makes your life have meaning to you, hold on to it. 
