Our world today is undoubtedly a cutthroat one. Competition defines our work places, our sports, our hobbies, and our relationships. But is this a truly healthy way to live? We are also more isolated, stressed, and unhappy than ever before, despite the prevalence of modern comforts and conveniences that one would think should make us happy. I argue that the spirit of cutthroat competition so prevalent in our world is precisely the problem, and that a spirit of cooperation is more conducive to people's success than competition. Cooperation works because humans are biologically driven to be social creatures, and it also enables us to take advantage of the strengths of multiple people rather than relying on our own limited power. Despite the common championing of competition as the way to live life, cooperation is a far healthier and more authentic way to live if we want to achieve true success in any area of our lives.

A cooperative approach to life will result in more success, because biologically, humans are programmed to be social creatures. This was demonstrated by the severe mental health issues many people experienced during the Covid-19 lockdowns and isolation. Without other people, we struggle; we require connection and socialization to survive and thrive. People are still feeling the intensely negative ramifications of excessive isolation, especially if they lived alone during the lockdowns. I myself endured this; I experienced severe mental hardship as a result of constant isolation and insufficient social interaction. If this is true for life in general, it stands to reason that it would be true as well in terms of success. Just as we are programmed to rely on a mutual community for support in daily living, we are equally programmed to respond positively to cooperation in work settings or even in play. Emphasizing cooperation allows us to take advantage of our biological predispositions and therefore better leverages our chances of success.

Success, one might say, is a journey and not a destination. There are always things we could be doing better and improving upon, so it is never something that we can safely say we have achieved and are done with now. But if success is a journey, then that means we need to make some choices about how we want to spend our time on that journey. Given the previously mentioned biological imperative to form social networks and bonds with other people, I would suggest that we will be happier on our journeys to success if we have a community to collaborate with and rely upon. Other people sharing the journey with us will turn it from drudgery to delight, and will have an impact on the entire attitude with which we embrace life.  

Furthermore, different people have different strengths. Competition requires us to rely only on our own skills and strengths, but when we cooperate with others, we are able to benefit from different skill sets and abilities as well. This allows us to achieve more in collaboration, because the available skills to assist in success become infinitely more numerous when multiple people are contributing. Imagine a football quarterback trying to win a game with no other offensive players to work with! It would be absurdly impossible. Now, I know what you're thinking; "isn't football an example of a competitve sport? Doesn't that mean that there is some entertainment value in competiton?" Well, yes and no. Sports are designed to be competitive, sure--but the competition is not what creates success within that environment, but the ability to collaborate. Even members of opposing sports teams often are there to support each other on the field. I've even witnessed games where the main offensive player of the winning team hugs and consoles the main offensive player of the losing team. Collaboration is more at the heart of sports than competition, even if competition is the surface dressing. Team sports are obviously inherently collaborative, but even more individual sports allow for opportunities to network with other people. Think about the importance of a trainer in horseback riding; we require other people's expertise and support in order to succeed. Without other sets of abilities to complement our own, we are far worse off. This is another major reason why collaboration is an approach to life that better sets us up for success.

Of course, some might argue that competition is healthy, because it encourages us each to improve ourselves and ultimately increase our own abilities. Moreover, competition is at the heart of our cultural ethos in Western capitalism, and is often regarded as the highest good. People who buy into one or both of these ideas would certainly hesitate to subscribe to a collaborative model of success. However, self improvement does not inherently require rejecting the benefits we can attain from working with other people. Mutual support may even make it easier to better ourselves, and would certainly make the process less stressful. And while the American ethos of individualistic Western capitalism is certainly strong, I would argue that it is not healthy. As previously stated, we are biologically programmed to need and want social connection and community. Trying to deny this is a deeply disordered cultural tendency that attempts to reject our basic biology, and cuts us off from the advantages inherent in relying on other people. This creates a world of isolated, unhappy individuals who feel as though the world is out to get them.

I would also argue that competition is toxic for us. It encourages us to see other people as our adversaries, and this kind of adversarial approach to life cannot be healthy. It results in a constant state of heightened tension and wariness, as we feel we must be constantly prepared to respond to threats from other people's abilities. Essentially, we end up spending most of our time in fight, flight, or freeze mode. This constant state of heightened adrenaline and preparation for disaster isn't good for our psyches, but it also isn't good for our bodies. Adrenaline responses are physical as much as mental, and over time constant states of heightened tension have negative impacts on things like our cardiovascular health, our muscular health, and our digestive health, to name just a few. Wouldn't a collaborative, networked approach to life offer much less threat and tension? It would allow us to spend more time in relaxation and less time in an adrenaline response, thereby allowing our minds to stay calmer and our bodies to stay healthier as we put less physical and mental stress on ourselves.

Ultimately, although cooperation and competition both offer pathways to achieving success, collaboration is the more reliable approach. It allows us to be true to our own instincts, and helps us take advantage of the skills and abilities of other people as well as our own. True success is always going to be found with other people and within community. Think about your own life and the things you value most. Would you prefer to stand on top of a mountain, having scaled it entirely by yourself and your own skills, and have nobody there to appreciate your accomplishment and your success? (That, of course, is assuming you're even able to reach the top without other people around to help you when you get into a sticky spot.) Or would you rather reach that mountain peak with a group of people who were all mutually helping each other, so that you could enjoy their company during the length of the climb and the triumph of your shared success when you reach the top? The choice, of course, is yours. But think about the kind of life that you want, and the kind of journey you want to take in pursuit of your goals. I suspect that if you are honest with yourself, you know that collaborating with others and having a community to share your success with will be far more fulfilling for you, and will cause you more happiness and less stress.
