    Where does happiness come from? How do we as people find happiness? Do we find it by chasing our own dreams? Or do we find it by trying to improve the world we live in and helping others? Can we be selfish and still end up happy? Or do we have to be selfless to discover what real happiness is and feels like? Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals, or on the happiness of others? This is what we are going to explore in this essay.

    From my personal expierence, I believe we can only find true enlightenment and happiness by helping others. Now when I say that I don't mean that I think that we have to go live a life of service to be happy. You dont have to constantly be giving all of yourself  to other people. But I do think that when we do things, even just small simple things like saying kind words to someone; or helping someone in their time of need out of the kindness in your heart that we are making the world a better place; and thus finding true happiness..even if its slowly over time as we evolve. 

    I beleieve true happiness can only come from being selfless. We must learn to put others needs before our own. If everyone in the world worried more about others than they do themselves than everyone would have someone looking out for them. In our world now when so many people are selfish and focused on their own personal goals or life,they dont look out for others and then only some people end up havig someone looking out for them. The selfless who focus on others often dont have people looking out for them, and thus its not an even dynamic. I have never felt more complete or happier and enlightened than I did when I started learning to love others. To focus my energy on making things better for other people, makes me feel fulfilled and happy.

    Now, some people may say that you can ONLY find happiness by focusing on your goals and dreams. That its not our responsibility or job to help other people. That we can only control our own happiness by making ourselves happy. But it is in my opinion that selfish mindset that has turned the world into such a sad , cruel place. We humans are a tribe. We need and seek companionship amongst us. If we treated each other like we arent important or valued to each other how could we all get along? How could we function and grow as a society? Hostility and anger would flourish if we only focused on our own wants and needs.

    In conclusion, I do not believe happiness is somthing we can selfishly create by ourselves; we may be able to convince ourselves that we are happy, but I dont believe its true happiness.  I believe true happiness comes from focusig on bettering the world and lives of others. Its almost like a magical, light, floaty feeling when you can take a step back and say "Wow, I truly just did somthing to help another person". It lets you feel good about yourself in a way a selfish person never could. I think that is happiness. I think people are much more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others.

