Happiness is a subjective feeling and experience that all of us aim to feel. However, there is some disagreement about what the best way to achieve happiness is. Some people think that happiness comes from pursuing personal dreams and goals. Other people think that happiness only comes when people put others' happiness ahead of their own. From my own experience, I believe that true happiness comes from focusing on my own goals ahead of others'. There are three primary reasons that support this belief. First, when I focus on my own goals, I feel more of a sense of pride and accomplishment. Second, focusing on my own goals allows me to attain what I need to provide for myself, my family and my friends. And third, I think that focusing too heavily on others' needs and wants is unhealthy because it can actually detract from my ability to achieve my own goals, which I need to do in order to be happy (as indicated by the first and second reasons I am giving).

To begin, prioritizing my own dreams and goals gives me a great sense of accomplishment. When I am proud of myself, I have the self-confidence I need to achieve bigger and better things. I recently graduated from graduate school. Going to graduate school was a big investment that I made in my future career and I know that my degree is going to unlock a lot of doors for me. I felt very happy at my graduation ceremony because I knew that I had earned my diploma through my own hard work and that I was responsible for making my life better for myself. This kind of self-confidence is key to being truly happy.

Secondly, by focusing on my own goals, I am in a better position to give myself, my family and my friends the life that we all deserve. My parents immigrated to the United States when they were older and they spoke very little English when they first moved. As the child of immigrants, I am responsible for taking care of my parents in their later years. My goals for my own career success are directly tied to my ability to give my parents the care they are going to need in the coming years. And if I couldn't take care of myself financially, I wouldn't be able to help them at all either. As the saying goes, I need to put on my own life vest before I can help out anyone else. The same thought process extends to my friends as well. I enjoy treating my friends to meals and coffees out, or giving nice birthday gifts or graduation gifts, and attending weddings to celebrate their marriages. I would not be able to do these things if I didn't first prioritize my own goals to establish my career and put myself on a strong financial path.

Finally, I don't think that focusing on others is the key to happiness because that comes at a huge expense to my own goals. If I were constantly spending my time volunteering, I wouldn't be able to make advancements in my own career, and my own career is what drives my ability to help not just myself but my family and others. If I were to constantly be worried about fixing all of the problems in the world, I wouldn't be able to relax and enjoy myself at all, and this relaxation is a form of happiness to me. For that matter, there are way too many problems in this world to even try to tackle. I would probably feel overwhelmed and stressed just thinking about these issues, let alone actually doing anything about them. In fact, I could see myself starting to think about these problems and then just feeling sad and depressed that I don't have any real power or ability to resolve them in a meaningful way.

Of course, I recognize that some people believe that if I were to focus on the happiness of others or humanity, I would personally benefit too. In their eyes, I would get a lot of joy knowing that I was able to contribute to make someone's life better. I agree to some extent that I do get joy out of helping others. As I mentioned above, it is my duty to help my parents in old age, and I enjoy showering my friends with attention and expressions of love. These are things that I do to benefit others, but I can only do those things if I prioritize myself above them in the first instance. I recognize that focusing on myself may sound selfish, and selfishness contrasts with happiness because selfishness is a negative trait that often carries over to negative emotions like jealousy and bitterness. But I don't think that putting myself first is selfish at all. I revisit the analogy I gave to the life vest earlier. If I don't help myself first, I can't expect anyone else to help me either. But if I help myself first, I can be in a position to focus on others' happiness if and when they need me to.

In conclusion, I believe that happiness comes from pursuing my own dreams and goals. This isn't true in an absolute sense, since I noted throughout my essay that I do get happiness when I care for and treat other people besides me. However, I don't think it's accurate to suggest that prioritizing others instead of myself or at my expense would give me true happiness. After all, to me, happiness comes from peace of mind. I need the peace of mind that I have taken care of myself before I can truly feel happy. I would not have that if I were constantly overstretched by caring for others ahead of myself. 
