"Teamwork makes the Dream Work", or so the quote says. But does it? Have you ever played a game of chess and felt so much desire to win. To know everything there was about the game of chess so you could beat any other player. That raw desire of competition. It is quite powerful, but does competition or cooperation cause people to achieve greater success? I believe that cooperation is the better motivator for most people. 

Consider most businesses. Cooperation is of the utmost importance. A common goal, working together to acheive said goal. Sharing in the success as well as failures. That is part of the working condition. I have worked on many teams, and by working together and cooperating the goals were met faster, and with better outcomes. In addition the weaknesses by certain members can be lessened by the strengths of others. This can lift up the entire team. Especially when the cooperation is seen as a strength by the organization. I have also worked in cut-throat competitive companies and although some tasks would be completed quicker. The negatives included overall increase in stress, decreased job satisfaction as well as poorer final outcomes. Although there are some jobs/companies that do use competition to their advantage. Sales positions are often very competitive, often putting co-workers against each other to get the next big sale. Although this does seem to work well in the short run, the overall stress is very high. In some rare instances the competitive nature of a business can actually cause employees to sabatoge other employees so they can "win".  This behavior can cause resentment, leading to major workplace drama. In addition, these high stress jobs can cause employees to turn to drugs and alcohol to cope, leading to addiction behaviors which are all too common in highly competative workplaces. This not only causes employees to burn out quickly, but also can cause major medical issues for the employees as well.  However, in a cooperative organization the employees feel like they are part of a team, that they all can work together and acheieve amazing success. In addition, a team approach allows the best traits to rise to the surface and strengthen the entire team. Each member having their personal strengths to lift the team. I also find that cooperative organizations keep their employees longer, and turn-over is much less. Which is a huge bonus for employers. Hiring and training is very expensive, so keeping employees happy and productive is a major advantage. 

I have worked in both type of organizations, and both type of job positions. I am always more inclined to be part of a cooperative team. I find it gives me more personal satisfaction, and I am happier at work. In addition, I still strive to acheive the best results, but for the whole team and not just a selfish need to prove I am the best. I find that most people work better in this kind of environment as well. 
