    Everybody is quick to criticize materialism. "Don't be materialistic", "it's the little things that matter in life", but is it really? The truth is we live in a capitalist society in which we spend most of our time producing or consuming products. Because of this, it is really not our fault that we have tied feelings of happiness and fulfillment to material possessions. Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Instead, we should be criticizing the capitalist economic system that has made society this way. 
     In today's society we are instilled with materialism from a young age. Before we are even born, our parents throw baby showers where friends and family bring gifts in preparation for our arrival into the world. They bring cribs, baby blankets, baby clothes, toys, and more. Every celebration and holiday is accompanied with some sort of consumption of materials possessions. Weddings, Christmas, Valentine's Day, birthdays, the list goes on and on. Often times these celebrations are spent with friends and family and are some of the happiest days of the year because of both the company and the possessions we receive. Because of this, it is no wonder that we associate happiness with material possessions. It is our capitalist society that is constantly promoting and pushing products out to us that is to blame. Capitalism is the root of our society and as I showed above it is ingrained in almost every traditionally happy aspect of our life. When capitalism and material possessions are so intertwined with happy events, how can society not be materialistic? To me, there is no way to separate happiness and material possessions without completely upending society and doing everything differently from an early age. 
     One could argue that even though it may be hard to not be materialistic, society should not be sooo materialistic and place more importance on family, friends, and fulfillment outside of material possessions. To this I would say that while almost everyone could work on not placing as much emphasis on material possessions, it is hard to make people aware of that when our capitalist society treats workers like pawns and is constantly promoting the consumption of material goods in order to sustain the economy. Materialism is so intertwined with our daily life that trying to get people to move away from it is unfair to expect. Even though our modern society could be less materialistic, I do not think it is fair to criticize it for being so. Instead, we should rethink how we celebrate things and come together and work on emphasizing the importance of non-material possessions within our own families. Society as a whole will probably never change, so we can only focus on teaching our children and the next generation how to be a little less focused on materialism. 
