        Have you ever really stopped and thought about the world around you and the things and people you are forced to see on a daily basis? We are surrounded by a world full of images and people who are portrayed as one thing, but in reality, are something very different than what they appear to be. I have personally realized this over the last couple of years. 
        Celebrities, politicians, and other notable people that we have seen on our televisions, movie screens, and websites, are not who we think they are. They are all actors who have tried to gain our trust through the media but have lived lives of deceit and crime. Politicians are not at all who they claim to be. There is no 2 party system of democrats and republicans in our country, it is a one party organization that has deceived all of the USA. Corrupt politicians have worked together in one organization in order to make the American people feel that they have someone on their side. We have been tricked into thinking there has been someone to look out for our best interests in the government. All politicians have worked together in order to further the socialist agenda that they have desired our country to have. The American people have been complacent, and no too many have realized what has been going on for decades to our country.
        Celebrities are not who they claim to be either. There are very few who have not caved to the pressures of fame and have fallen in their quest to fame. Only the celebrities who have been too weak to stand on their own, and been controlled, have been "successful". There are many people who have preyed on the weak and the innocent and taken them under their control in order to succeed in Hollywood. Some people were not even interested in pursuing acting, but have been propositioned by higher ups and persuaded to join their "club". Cults and organizations have been controlling Hollywood for decades.
        These celebrities and "cults" have created symbols that have been slipped in to our lives that have hidden meanings. They understand these images and their meanings, but the general American public does not know. We just consider these images as normal and we associate them with names of companies and organizations, all the while, the "cult" is laughing at us.
        I know there are people who would label me a conspiracy theorist. Some don't want to believe that the people they have looked up to and trusted in the media could somehow be so evil. It is very hard to prove this philosophy that I have. A lot of Americans will be sheep and feel they are still being fed the truth via media. I, however, know the truth, and am no longer a sheep! 
