Impressions have a stronger control over our lives than we know. Throughout our day we are bombarded with various impressions, from the news reports painting events in a certain picture, or to advertisements that show their products much more favorably than reality. I believe that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people because such a great emphasis is placed on the advertizing of a products appearance and even the advertizing of a public figure's skills and reputation.

Throughout the media we are shown the emphasisement of specific aspects of a product in advertisements. These emphasisements aren't just there for the sake of being there, but to influence how we percieve the rest of that product. Advertisements and even the packaging on products show the products off to be bright, plentiful, and appealing, whereas in reality the product lacks that same shine and polish that the box and posters show. Food advertisements show the greatest discrepancy between the picture and the product, with foods such as burgers being shown to be large, juicy, and incredibly appealing, but if you order that same burger, it'll look nowhere near how the advertised burger appears. There isn't a perfectly round bun, or a sizzling and juicy patty with cheese flowing off the edges. Regardless of how the burger you just ordered appears, most people will still think of that perfect, mouth watering burger as they eat the comparatively dull burger. This shows that even though the real burger is relatively dull in comparison, that initial and ideal burger shown on the screen is the burger that most people will think they're eating anyway.

It's not just food that gets beautified for the screens, but also people, whether they're an actor, a celebrity, or a political figure. On social media, most celebreties will use filters or even photoshop editing on the pictures of themselves to perfect how the appear, and smooth over any imperfections that they have in their appearance. This digital makeup almost completely transforms that person into a different person that has perfect teeth, perfect skin, perfect everything. In the real world, where there are no filters, those celebreties are less appealing and attractive than how they appeared on their Instagram feeds, but most people will still see the person as having those features shown off on their feed. It's a similar case for politicians, where we often will see news stories about how great that person is, whether it's community service, introducing a new program to help the community, or anything else that is deemed favorable for their reputation. Most people will then associate that figure with their advertised good deeds, so when they hear the name of a councilman running for office, they'll think back to the videos of that person performing community service. What may not be considered or thought about, is that person's ideals and how they think they can help the community, or even if they have the skills to be an effective leader in their role. Again, looks can be deceiving and people may be just thinking of the ideal person that was showed off in the advertisements, instead of how effective or reputable that leader actually is.

Images and appearances shown off of products and public figures are often what people will think of when they see that same product or person in the real world. Food advertisements often show off their food as being much more appetizing than they are in real life, and the news and social media will represent celebreties and political figures and being an ideal and attractive person, which people will then think that person is instead of how they really perform or appear. Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people, and it controls how we think of those products or people.
