The power of successful teamwork can not be underestimated!
When there is a shared goal that benefits everyone, then the opportunties for success become unlimited.
Cooperation among people to push each other to succeed for the greater good of the team and provide everyone best interest in mind.  Teamwork is very valuable because each person can function as a small part of the bigger project with each person  contributing their skills and abilties in specific areas where needed. For example, one person can focus on planning while another person can focus on developing while another person may focus on researching. There is also the added benefit of people around you to critize your strengths and weaknesses, so that you can continously improve the work and make better outcomes that will lead to greater success. It is vital for everyone on the team to divde the task evenly and let people focus on their specific skill so that everyone can contribute to the success of a given project. 

It is rather important to compare the differences between having a team cooperation and an individual participate in competition.
When one is working solo, it is often a struggle because all the work is placed on themselves and they have to see everyone else as the outside that is working against them instead of with them. Therefore the competitive individual must work even harder to overcome some successess. They have to manage all the parts and planning on their own and constantly live in fear that they are not doing as good as they should be or that someone else is doing better than them. They do not have a good balance or a team to help even out the load that it comes to make great success happen. They are often left to themselves to decide how they are doing against everyone else. The competitive forces that drives them to succed can be positive as it will give them a sense of strong motivation to push forward and prove to everyone that they can do it all on themselves and be better than everyone else, however there is always a hidden cost to that situation such as the long hours and lonely nights that they have to continously out perform or otherwise the work will never get done or take longer to get done.


I believe that it is most benefical to everyone to work in a cooperative environment that can promote a form of competition among people in the group that way they will become motivated to do better and better work alongside eachothers. 
At the end of the day, cooperation includes teamwork, a common goal to strive towards, and shared desired outcome. When all these things are taken into consideration, it increases efficently and everyone will be able to accomplish more in less time, stress and energy rather than the invidual who chooses to be competitive and working twice as hard for little to equal results and the individual who chooses to work in a cooperative team environmnet. 


