Cooperation or competition.  Which of the aforementioned form of human interaction are more inclined to achieve longterm success.  I will state difiitevely that cooperation is much more indudive to success than failure.  In my experience it is the collaberative environments.  Situation where indivdual work together to achieve goals if much more like to great a postive outcome than one where competition is the primary motivator.

Let's look at goverment as an example.   Real change only occurs when the representive task with creating real meaningful reform work together craft policies that help achieve that change.  Granted all might not be in favor of the proposes chagne wihting a give society but that is beside the point.  If creating policies to implement change is the definition of success thant it only works if the group are willing to compromise their indivualism to the betterment of all.  

Coverserly, a competive enviroment, where each party or individual is focuse only on what is best for them or the group, real progress tends to come to a standstill.  Much like the current situaiton in US politcs today.

Today I see a stagnant congress that in essence does absolutely nothing but spout one bipartism point of view against another.  It has created an almost toxic enviroment within certain faction of our country.  Nothing gets done, no progress is made, and success is all but impossiblee

Supportive enviroments create a platform for people to learn, grow and develop with out fear of regection.  This inturn leads to better and better idead to be created and implemented.

Not to say competiton does not have it place.  In many cases it is the impetus to innovation.  Howerver only through coorperatrion can the action to achieve successul innovation be accopmplished.   It takes several view points and different perspective to really solve problems.  An indidual only has there on knowledge anbd experiecnee to draw from  However throught cooperation that experieince and knowledge can grow exponentially and in theory becone limiteless.

As humans, we are motivated by competition but collaboration is where the growth comes from.  








