Cooperation versus competition is like the ageless nurture vs nature argument. Both elements can go hand in hand seamlessly. While I certaintly value competition as a key for generating profits and growth for any business, I firmly believe that cooperation is the true winner at the end. Any business benefits from both styles, but competition can divide morale amongst a team or department. Cooperation is the only way for everyone to develop that sense of company belonging and culture.

For instance, let us use the restaurant industry to showcase the differences between competition and cooperation. Servers are the prime example for why competition exists. They help drive the sales which will either increase profits or bring in more guests due to their excellent experiences. Their tips are earned individually and most often, they are a symbol of their abilities and hierarchy. However, for the team this could cause animosity and resentment amongst other servers who may not make as much.

Any team cannot just have a few star-hitters. Once something happens to those star-hitters the team will fail. Hence, cooperation is the only way to rally the team up. In a cooperation scenario everyone at the restaurant pitches in to create the experience. Everyone regardless of their skills or ranks play a vital role in the restaurant's flow. Pool-tipping is the outcome of a cooperation situation. It can help even the star-hitters if they have a bad night. There is a guarantee for everyone to leave with a more consistent amount of tips.

When you have only a handful of servers making the most money, it will only make the rest of the team lose their confidence or will. Of course one can argue that if everyone shares the tips then some team players might take advantage and work less hard. While this certainly is valid, ultimately having everyone work towards the same goal will have a boost in morale and create a more cohesive team.

The most optimum working environment would be one where everyone cooperates and builds a strong connection with everyone. This will create the homebase for any competion or rivalries to form that won't create harm or friction.  Everyone will be able to explore and grow without worrying about their reputation if they fail. In a cooperation-based environment, workers can be supported even by their rivalries,.

In conclusion, the best way for people to achieve success is through cooperation. A world where everyone can help one another is one where improvements will continue to happen. Cooperation secures everyone a safe spot to discover their weaknesses and strengths. People will naturally strive to be better. Without this network of support, people remain insecure inviting negative responses such as competition. The way forward is when everyone is on the same page and marching forth together.

