With the emergence of the internet, social media and the easy access we now have to information regarding people in the public eye, are we being overly affected by the images and impressions of these people?

We are constantly being bombarded with stories online of famous people. The access we have is almost endless, we can Google almost any story about anyone and come up with something, true or not. More often than not, the images we see aren't true images, photo editing software is so easy to come by these days and a lot of the images we see are touched up, photoshopped, to make the subject look much better (or worse) than real life. We are manipulated into believing that everything we see is a true reflection of reality. The narrative behind the stories becomes almost irrelevant when compared to the images. Young, impressionable people become transfixed on what they perceive to be the "perfect look". Make up and hair tutorials are everywhere, there is an abundance of information to help you emulate the look of your favorite Tik Tok or You Tube star. We no longer care that the person earning millions from a reality TV show has absolutely no talent, they are revered simply for having the "perfect body". Even politicians with  their own social media accounts are using them to get inaccurate images to their supporters, which is where this whole thing becomes dangerous. Politicians sharing inaccurate stories can incite riots and breed hatred among people. It seems that nobody wants or needs to be honest any more. 

People will say that this is harmless, that for decades we have tried to look our best, tried to copy movie stars and musicians, but the internet has made this trend even easier and far more widespread. People will say that teenagers have always been fixated on fame but nowadays teenagers are suffering from more mental health issues than ever and I believe it has a lot to do woth the images and impressions they are subjected to. Recent rioting and fighting among rival sides of the political spectrum has all been about people in power projecting the wrong impressions and images on theor social media pages.

It's my belief that the amount of manipulated imagery we see on the internet and on social media is damaging our country, our world, and our young people by not giving them a sense of truth and honesty.



