Our materialistic society is destroying our collective sense of individuality and the world around us. Modern society should be criticized for being overy materialistic, and it should be criticized harshly. 

Climate change is an issue that impacts individuals around the world, and hurts the most vulnerable members of our society severely. Our overly material, capitalistic world is intwertwined with the issue of climate change. As we constantly expand to new markets and create a plethora of unnecessary products we are rapidly destroying the world around us. People today buy products that are entirely unnecessary and are constantly pushed to purchase more. A prime example of this is the use of plastic waterbottles. The United States alone consumes enough plastic water bottles per year to stretch around the world several times over. These plastics often end up in the ocean and a patch of garbage in the Atlantic Ocean actually encompasses many miles. This plastic is causing irreparable harm to the ocean ecosystem. It is so damaging that it even ends up in the seafood we eat and can now be detected in human blood. 

Another example of our destructive materialism, and its impact on the destruction of our climate, is our use of gasoline powered vehicles. People around the United States especially, and in other countries, drive massive cars that they do not need. These cars, and trucks for that matter, burn fossil feuls that are destroying the ozone layer around the earth. The destruction of the ozone is causing rising global temperatures that are making it challenging to grow food and destroy the habitats of animals and plants that we need to survive. 

Some may feel that our society must be materialistic if our economy is to succeed, but this is not the case. In fact, our very materialism is what will lead to the destruction of our economy. How will workers complete their daily tasks if there is no safe water for them to drink? How will workers arrive at work on time if they cannot afford a stable house to live in? The answer is simple, they cannot. Our ever increasing rate of consumption is bound to destroy the world around us, and all the individuals who live in it. Our economy cannot function without the raw materials our world contains, and our overconsumption is destroying those very materials. I'm going to paraphrase here, but Vladomir Lenin once said that capitalists will sell you the rope you use to hang them. This is happening today, the materialism that pervades our society and bolsters our economy is the very thing that will crash it in due time.  

The overly materialistic society we are all a part of is inextricably linked to climate change. If we do not significantly change our habits of consumption we will destroy our planet, and the majority of organisms that inhabit it within the next 100 years. It is critically important that our society become less materialistic for the sake of our world and all the organisms that inhabit it. 
