Competiton and cooperation can be viewed as the driving principles behind human civilization and the evolution of speices from the dawn of time. In the present day United States, the arguements for competition being more valuable than cooperation seem abvious; humanity evolved to their current station through a darwinian survival of the fittest and America's capitalist economy is driven by the competition of a largely free market. I would argue instead that competition and cooperation are not mutually exclusive and that it is ultimately cooperation that that plays a larger role in success. 

In the most basic terms, evolution is the surival of the most fit organism. Living things compete for finine resources and the orgasnism that is more capable of obtaining vital resources will live to pass on its genes. Over milienia this competion will evolve new organisms through genetic recombination driven constant competition. While this seems to obviously state that competition is the most valauable facet of success, species that are capable of cooperation are often the species best able to compete.  

If we accept the premise that mankind is the most successful know lifeform- human success is a result of cooperation. Culture and civilization as ideas require human cooperation to exist. Competition exists between humans in a microcosm, but those microcosms of competition exist within a cooperative framework as a macrocosm. Businesses may compete with on another and the success of on group over another may drive innovation, but they are operating in a series of nested cooperative agreements how business can be done. Human beings organize in a way that makes the act of competition conditional on cooperation of all parties. A business can't compete in the economy without cooperating with local governments, regulatory organizations an international laws. Human succeed because when an entity ignores these cooperative agreements in competitive pursuit of individual success- then the vast majority of humans have agrees to cooperate to hinder the overly competitive enitity.    

Competition and cooperation are not choices to be made. They're both foundational principals of our understanding of shared existance. While competition undoubtedly is a driver of success- it is most valuable when contained in a cooperative framework. Competition devoid of cooperation breeds unproductive chaos. 
