One of the fundamental parts of the human existence is happiness; whether we are pursuing it for ourselves, evaluating it in the lives of others, or revelling in the simple joy of experiencing it, it is impossible to live to adulthood without encountering this emotional state, or lack thereof. Thus it is no surprise that academics frequently debate about how one might acheive happiness. Two common theories insist that happiness comes to a person based on their focus. According to them, fixing one's mind on the happiness of either one's own happiness or the happiness of others is the key to this illusive state of being. I believe the answer actually lies in a combination of both views, because a well-rounded life is the best life.

There is great value in the chasing of a personal dream; nothing compares to the rush of pride and accomplishment of a hard-won accomplishment and the real possibility of public accolades. There is equal value in taking an active role in lifting others from their pain and suffering, to share their joy and and bask in their likely gratittude. However, if one only focuses on their own goals, they are likely to tend toward selfishness, shutting out others and losing out on the happiness that can come from genuine relationships. In the same way, one who focuses exclusively on the joy of others may find themselves taken advantage of and losing trust in other people, hampering any happiness they may find along the way of altruism.

The only way to ensure a person's best chance at happiness is to balance the pursuit of their own dreams with reaching out to others to help them acheive their own happiness. There is always the real possibility of pain, loss of trust, and of being cheated out of happiness, as there is when one focuses completely on eihter themselves or others, but in the end, the chances of finding true lasting happiness are best with a balanced approach that goves attention both to personal goals and helping others achieve their goals.
