Recall a time that you have been asked or even offered to help a friend or family memeber move, regardless of how big or small the place they are moving to it is a new home and a big change for anyone. Hopefully everything went fine and you didn't drop their entertainment system down the stairs! Afterwards more than likely you end up sharing a pizza, some other meal or even head out for a drink. Surely you end the night feeling elevated, you helped someone out and they start a new chapter knowing that they have a good enough friend that is willing to help them. Doing something as this is undoubletely kind and everyone should help at least one friend move in their life but it is important to not always become a yes person simply to please others because you will fall behind on your goals and certainly end up dissapointed and likely resentful. 

People do remember nice thngs but time also passes and people change as their lives evolve and eventually down the road a favor like helping someone move a couch becomes insignificant in the big picture, relationships and friendships are simply just more complicated than that. If you continusly put your goals, dreams and passions on hold to please every friend and relative your own life will eventually fall behind and sadly when you are tryng to play catch up later or are frustrated with how things have played out is when others will move on forgetting you and those small favors that took a whole day from you. Now in no way am I saying to not help or seek to please others, no but you should priortize your needs over others because the more succesful, empowered and confidednt you become from your succeses and drive the more you will be able to return the happiness radiating from you. Of course many will say that it would be impossible to put themselves before others or their most loved ones but setting bouandries in realtionships is improtatnt and if a friend becomes upset because you say no to their continous demands by putting your goals or needs first you may need to reconsider the relationship. 

Looking out for others and building ones tribe and community is central to our human nature. To build a realtionship usually requires a little give and take this obviously involves occasionally putting others needs before themsleves. This is normal and expected however putting other needs continusly before your own goals and needs causes toruble for yourself and those around you because you can easily become unhappy with yourslef and as the saying goes you cannnot love or help others until you have helped and loved yourself.
