Ants cooperate to build intricate nests in the sand. Bees cooperate to craft geometrical, self-sustaining hives. Hens raise the chicks of other hens. Elephants work in teams to ensure their group safety. Wolves hunt in packs and travel only as fast as their slowest member. Throughout the animal kingdom it has been observed by zoologists and biologists time and time again that cooperation is what sustains a species. Why should mankind be any different?

There are many ways to achieve success. This has been debated for centuries by philosophers, anthropologists, economists and every other kind of academic and lay person alike. In the Art of War, the author argues that military success can be achieved through ruthless guile, cunning and individualism. This may be true in the bloody trenches of combat, but in other theatres of human endeavor, it is mutual aid that provides the longest, most satisfying victories.

As a civillization we have gravitated closer and closer together. We share, barter and trade. We depend on the skills and expertise of others, and we provide our own in order to keep the system running. It is programmed in our DNA to care for one another and to serve the group interest. Competition has created massive wealth and enormous corporations that employee millions of people. But how can success be defined? Can you look at this highly-concentrated wealth in the hands of just a few and call that success? No, success must manifest among the status quo. When the average person struggles to afford health care, education, and saving for the future, something within the system has broken. Competition leads to a consolidation of power at the expense of the status quo. Throughout this artificial, competitive construct, our minds have been poinsoned by politics and propaganda that seek to divide us and turn us against each other. What are we competing for? The only beneficiaries are a handful of billionaires who don't caer about our struggle. They oil their machinary with the blood of the working poor. 

Competition causes us to turn our backs on the principle of mutual aid. The princple of cooperation and group harmony that is seen in every corner of the animal kingdom, achieving the most meaningful kinds of success. Birds do it, wolves do it, apes do it. Why can't we?
