Materialism is something most of us are familiar with, I know I am. Ever since I can remember I have been obssessed with having more and more. Starting from when I was young, I remember my parents giving me all of these toys and presents that that I can fill an entire room. It just wasn't my parents, It was also family members, my aunts, uncles, and grandparents. That was their way of showing how much they care about you. 

I can't shake this feeling deep down inside that having an enviable amount of materialistic things does produce a grotesque sense of happiness within me. It's something that needs to be criticized since there is no need to have these many posessions. The whole extravagance of having more than your fellow neighbor shows a  need to gain acceptance and belonging only becasue society has conditioned us to be materialistic and to put it above everything else. 

Being materialistic seems to be something that was ingrained in us from a young age. Either from our parents and also with how society makes us thing about it in regards to our own happiness.  I cannot deny that those material things did make me happy once. We all have our own experiences with materiaism.  Having the newest things every year, all of the otherkids competing on who has the best, newest and shiniest things. I remember a vivid memory of my parents telling me to show off their newest gift to me, to all the other kids. Like it was supposed to be a sense of pride and worth. However, I felt a sense of emptiness deep inside that I was not able to comprehend, not until I was much older. There was no sense of fulfillment from me. This is something that has evidently damaged a child's perception on the realities of being materialistic. I believe that this has shown great evidence that modern society should be justly criticized beacsue of the effect it is having on our children.

Maybe it was becasue of this that as I have matured into adulthood, I've slowly come to realize that I don't need to consume more and more stuff to gain any semblance of joy. It's something that I have made concerted effort to changes since it's something that needs to be openly criticized. I hope to do my part in showing my future kids that there are other ways to show your love and affection, that you can achieve happiness in modern society without being materialistic.
