When you see a billboard of your favorite singer promoting a energy drink, even if you are someone who does or doesn't drink energy drinks in their routine, there will be a part of you that remnembers the ad and may be tempted to buy the product. Even with things such as make up brand, many celebrities are coming out with their own unique brands which encourage their fans to spend their money to get that connection of using what their idols use. In everyday life, we are exposed to examples like these which influence how and what we spend our money on. 

To explore deeper into this, let's take a look at Rare Beauty which is a make up brand created by Selena Gomez. The make up brand started with simple products like mascara to lipsticks and through it's popularity, it is now a very well known brand in the make up world. A big advantage that this brand has is the fact that the creator is already a well known public figure that has a huge fan base and relevance in today's pop culture. When the public sees Selea Gomez using her own brand of make up, and being able to buy the same exact products she uses makes people feel more connected with their idol. Even if the actual product works like any other make up product in the market. 

Another example of this is Fenty Beauty which is one of the most successful celebrity make up brands made by singer Rihanna. Women and men who are fans of her music or even who she is as a person will favor her make up products over a brand that has no 'face' on it. Through her own make up line, Rihanna can represent specific individuals who have a darker complexion by giving darker shade options when it comes to foundation which big brands like Loreal may be lacking. 

On the other hand this can be seen in a negative way as people can be blinded by the image of what the brand holds and not what it actually is. In reality all these make up products are probably as equal if not worse quality than what cheaper alternatives brand may offer. For example, the make up brand by Ariana Grande, R.E.M beauty has faced not as much good feedback from their intial launch like Selena Gomez and Rihanna had with their brand. People complained about the brands quality and how cheap the actual products were. Many people called out Ariana Grande for using this whole make up brand venture as a easy way for her to make money from her fans. Regardless of this, her make up brand is still relevant and popular in social media because of the fact it is Ariana Grande's make up. 


