While achieving happiness is a fairly common goal in life, focusing on the goal of happiness is not exactly the best way to achieve it.  This is one situation where "keep your eye on the prize" might not actually be the best advice.  Instead, the key to achieving happiness is to consider one's personal values, the things that bring one happiness/joy, achieving a workable balance, and to understand that 'happiness' is not necessarily a static concept, but rather one that can change and evolve throughout one's life.  Additionally, happiness is perhaps best achieved through a balance of focusing on one's personal goals and the happiness of others.  

Happiness is not a fixed concept, nor is it universal.  It is a somewhat vague, general, and mutable concept.  What makes me happy today may not be what brings that same feeling 5 years from now.  About 5 years ago, I was very content with my job-  I felt fulfilled and felt good at the end of the day (most days, at least.)  About a year ago, my values shifted and I lost that balance-  most days I came home NOT feeling fulfilled.  After deep searching, I realigned what was important to me and how pursuit of a career change would help me to achieve a renewed sense of happiness.  Helping others achieve there goals is equally as fulfilling: As a supervisor, I get joy and fulfilment out of helping younger staff grow in their careers.  There's a sense of satisfaction and pride, but also, there is the knowledge that I can cause a ripple effect that will touch others far beyond what I can achieve on my own.  

There have also been times in my life where I felt like I was very focused on achieving happiness and thus would become more frustrated when I wasn't feeling it.  The thing about happiness is that it isn't constant-  It's more like a scale:  Happiness occurs when the balance of good/joyful/nice/etc.. emotions outweigh the sad/not good/bad feelings.  When we focus on achieving happiness, the natural and normal setbacks that are a part of life get to us more.  When we focus on achieving concrete goals related to happiness, such as pursuing a career change, we can more effectively roll with the good and bad days/instances.  Additionally, when we focus on creating a better world around us, we both increase our own happiness, as well as create an environment around us that supports our continued happiness.  

Happiness is also better achieved when one considers a cummulative effect, rather than a singular purpose.  What I mean is that, volunteering at a soup kitchen can make one feel happy, obtaining a new acadamic degree/achievement, can make one feel happy, seeing a beautiful sunset can make one feel happy-  there can still be some not great things:  a breakup, an injury, etc.., but if the balance can be tipped, then one can be considered to have achieved happiness.  Happiness as a static, singular end goal can make it harder to bounce back and move forward from the not great (and very much guaranteed to occur) times.  

One could, of course, argue that happiness is the guiding principle, thus that is the goal being focused on above.  I wouldn't necessarily disagree, however I think it comes down to happiness as the by-product of focusing on goals/projects/objectives in life versus happiness as the end result that one is striving toward.  The end result model seems almost like a set up for failure: It doesn't allow for set-backs, changing values, or continued growth.  Another way to look at personal pursuits vs trying to improve the happiness of others is that not maintaining a balance could detrimental.  If one is so focused on others, they may lose sight of their own goals.  At the extreme, one can become co-dependent and rely  [TIMED OUT]

Ultimately, happiness is an overarching theme that should be seen as a cumulative and mutable thing, and the pursuit of things that increase the happiness balance over sad/bad balance is the way to achieve it.  Focusing on happiness as an end goal is likely a sure-fire way to never achieve it.  
