I believe that images and impressions have a major, one could say the worst, impact on society today. There is little to no originiality anymore, as people are mostly drawn to what they see others have or what others are doing. There's an unhealthy obsession with keeping up with trends, or behaving a certain way because they feel it is their fufilled duty to please a public figure who they don't even personally know. I feel that society also glorifies people who are human and normal just like the rest of us, sometimes in such a way that it becomes scary what they're willing to do in the name of that person.

I will be the first to say that I do have public figures that I enjoy, but not to the point to where I'm wanting to be like them in anyway, or going through extreme lengths of being a fan. I say this meaning that there are people who would literally kill to even catch a glimpse of a celebrity or politician, and that is a terrifying thought. I will use Donald Trump as an example. He has been a well-known figure for a very decent amount of years, but as soon as he became president, people really started to lose their minds. A lot more racism came to light from some (a lot) of supporters, as well as a disturbing obsession. In my very own state, a large group of people on a busy interstate had their cars literaly wrapped with Donald Trumps face with flags driving five miles per hour, something he never saw or would even know about. I personally don't have any president, or public figure that would ever make me do, or even think about doing something like that. I'm certain no one was doing that with him in particular, up until he became president, even though he's been famous for much longer than that. I think society is pinned to be obsessed with looks as well; everyone wants to have a "dream" body. There are so many people who want to look a certain way because they feel they need to to have the "look." There are some people who even want to look like the actual celebrity, and go through so much money and extreme lenghts to look like a less attractive version of that person. Currently there is also a "trend" for people who are not mentally well to arm themselves and shoot as many people as they possibly can, just to do it or become infamous. 

In all, I would say we as a society are headed towards doom, more than ever, if things cannot change. I believe that social media has a major influence on how people act and what they do. I believe there are more mass shootings, people being obsessed with celebrities and politicians, and body image obsession all because of social media, and the need to be or look "perfect." I think these things have always existed, but it's much more sought after now that the technology is here to broadcast it, verus the time before computers and cell phones were made. It's taking a toll on humanity, and I am genuinely scared to see what the world has left in store, because it will only become worse as time progresses. We as a society need to wake up and do better, and be better. The smallest things could have a major influence on even just one person who may be watching. 
