Often when people think of cooperation, they think of family, sports and the workforce.  Cooperation is the idea that individuals work together to achieve a specific task or common goal.  In sports, people are encouraged to cooperate and work together for a common goal: to win a game.  In the workforce, oftentimes, the boss gives an assignment and colleagues work together to either learn together while accomplishing the task at hand or complete specific parts to complete the whole task.  Even on a closer, more familial level, cooperation is something that builds bonds, establishes relationships and creates long-lasting memories.


Cooperation aids in the success of families because it builds and strengthens relationships; whether its spouses, siblings, in-laws or other relatives.  Working together isn't always easy within families, but it allows for members to make memories and become closer.  While athletes often examine their own abilities and strengths and weaknesses, most of the time, they work side by side with other like-minded players to get better, stronger in their sport.  Their goal is to win the game.  With team sports like basketball and football, players often rely on each other to work together to execute plays that will help them score points.  This cooperative mindset, ultimately builds the best player and athlete, because they realize the game is not just about them, but about the entire team.  There are jobs in the workforce where people can work solely on their job duties and not have to interact with people at all.  And then there are others who have to interact with people all day.  Cooperation within working environments builds character, develops strong communicators and helps people identify  their own strong attributes that they bring to the table.

While some may say that competition is the driving force of making people better, I think cooperation helps individuals see the unique qualities that everyone brings to the table; therefore helping them realize the importance each person brings. I also think that healthy, friendly competition can exist and fuel strategic, effective cooperation.

In summary, cooperation, undoubtedly, would produce more successful individuals for the simple fact that it encourages communication, hones in on individual strengths, and propels achievement of common goals/outcomes.  Doing things cooperatively build relationships as well as creates a space for people to recognize not only their own greatness but the greatness in others.


