     In the world we live in today, we get bombarded with images and pictures. Complete social media platforms are based on the image more so than even the content. Ads show up as individuals move their thumb mindlessly up and down to scroll through their device, without even taking into consideration what that ad is. This generation is based off their likes on instagram or watches entire genre of people sharing their thoughts on a box and packaging design. The image and what it means to us has completely too much effect on people these days. 
     You can ask any child younger than 10 years old, "what do you want to be when you grow up?" The answer will probably vary from racecar driver to teacher but in that mix of responses, you'll find a hand full of replies stateing "Youtuber." At an early age in our lives now, the "image" is having an enormous effect on people. This need and want to have the hottest car, the coolest job or the biggest house, comes from the images of ads and people on youtube that indirectly say, "this is what i have. I'm super cool. You probably want to be like me because when you see my image on your screen. I'm always happy and have everything you want." 
     While others might say that this new world of imagery and ads is normal, or just how we live in today's society, I would say, "they can't even see what's right in front of them." That these people have no idea that the their wants and desires are silently being based on what they see. I believe this is exactly what the companies and social media platforms want, to be so overwhelmed by images and ads that the public becomes brainwashed to think or want things unknowingly driven by their social images or ads. 
     In our everday life now, we look at thousands of images solely from our phones or computers. These images blend into our lives unknowingly to us and have a greater influence on our desires than we could probably admit. Imagery used by corporations or individuals to pursude you to believe them or to join their efforts. 

