The idea of happieness is not one that can not be universally defined.  It is subjective to each individual and based upon their choice, enviornment and culture.  The idea that happieness is either fulfilled through personal goals or fulfilling the happiness of others is not definite.  One can be fulfilling personal goals while seeing to the happiness of others and yet not have happiness in their own lives.  

I grew up in a low economic class family where my mother and grandmother's sole objective was my happiness. After fighting her way to this country, my grandmother fought to work with the education of a 7 year old.  She raised my mother, uncle and aunt through two abusive marriages.  Her sole focus was the safety and happiness of her children.  My mother went from what she saw as a chile. This is why meeting my wants and needs led her  to being finacially burdened and stressed, yet they continued this process until i graduated high school and even into the finacial aid process for college.  I learned to put others wants and needs before my own by seeing how they struggled when looking back.  I worked hard in college to be only the second person with a degree in the family.  I did this to make them happy and show others who doubted my abilities that I can be something.  Once I obtained a job, I worked on my master's degree to make those happy around me again, because one degree just wasn't enough for family and funny enough the state. To keep my job, I had to have level 2 certification which ment a masters equivalent or master's degree.    All the while, I was not happy, but would not realize it until 20 years later.  I gave up my prime years to have children, ultimatly trying when it was almost impossible due to medical complicaitons.  Looking back at my college years, my life was a mix of personal goals and the happiness of others.   Had I sought my goal of children before 25, I'd most likely not have registered for my master's degree until much later and struggled even more to complete it.  

Goals and happiness are like a double edge sword.  You have to give so much until you realize its too much or too late.  I feel that at the age of 40, I am still looking for happiness as I've become complacement with my life.  I've almost given up on my goals to focus on others which is exhausting.  You tend for forget about the hapiness accomplishments  make you when soceity also places daily struggles and demands on you.  You are told you are over educated and will never earn what you are worth. It breaks you down and makes you contemplate all that you have done to get where you are, and those relationships that died along the way towards your goals. 

Based on my life alone, I feel that happiness can not come from solely from goals or others. It can be a mix that will never be 50/50 and will always fluctuate throughout your life, but this may be totally different for another person.  As we age, we learn the importance of people and things. We learn those who use us for their own happiness, without returning the feeling or acknowedging it at all.  No matter how hard we strive towards our own goals, building relationships with others or trying to improve the happiness of those around us, we will never fully be happy. 
