          Happiness or the pursuit of happiness is not black or white, it is completety subjective to the individual. there is a grey area of happiness, however ones happiness should not rely on making others happy unless it brings them joy even then this joy they are feeling could potentially put them in a bad spot either financially or emotionally. They could be giving too much to one person or cause and bringing themselves harm. I personally, believe that one should focus on their own personal goals instead of on the happiness of others as it will in the long run bring them greater satifscation and joy as they will be in a better position in their life, be able to bring joy to others while also being happy, and even in a better position to help others.
           If one hunkers down and focuses on themself for a while pursuing personal goals and assertations they will be happier and in a better spot in their life. Instead of wasting energy on making others happy they will be making themself happy through hardwork and dedicaiton to their purpose in the life, whatever that might be for the indivdual.                                                                                                                     
          Once, someone has applied all of the energy to their craft and has allowed them to become succesful in their own personal goals they will then be allowed to bring joy to others after they have worked on themselves. This is allow for a happy meduim of helping yourself and helping others, giving back in a way. 
          Not only will you be in a bettter spot for yourself, you will also be in a better spot to help others attain the success that you have attained through your strainful efforts. This will allow you to help more people without harming your personal wellbeing. Some people will have you think that their main goal in life is to help others, however you cannot help many people will you cant or wont help yourself. A charity is only good when they are open and well funded. You have to acheive your own happiness before you can help someone achieve their own.          
          I beleive that people are more likely to be happy in the long run if they focus on their personal goals instead of on the happiness of others as they will be in a better postion in their life, be able to bring joy to others while also being happy, and even be in a better postition to help others in the future.                             



