Every day we are faced with a considerably mass amount of information, advertisements, and general social media "content." In order to capture and maintain our attention, this content (information, ads, social media) needs to be interesting, captivating, flashy. In a matter of sometimes seconds this content needs to make an impression - good or bad. It needs to hook us in and hold our attention. Further, when using social media people tend to post only the "highlight reels" of their lives - posting only those happy, fun, and memorable moments - you don't see the bad with all of those fun vacations, status updates about promotions, and happy memories.

Due to this constant bombardment of flashy advertisements and people's "highlight reels", our perceptions of what is real or even realistic in our lives has been skewed. If we only see those happy moments from everyone around us and fancy attractive people in advertisements we end up wondering why it is we aren't like all of our happy successful friends taking lavish vacations or why we don't look like the celebrities who use product "x, y, or z" do. This can become an obsession to some, "doom scrolling" on social media, lusting after the lives of others, and wondering why they aren't as pretty, successful, rich, wonderful and their favorite "influencers."

This is all the more reason to live in the present. It is so easy for us as human beings to see the grass as greener on the other side. With how everything is presented in order to look a certain way or convey a certain image on social media it is easy for us to get caught up in how we look to others rather than who we really are. Many are more obsessed with the image they put forth than the quality of life they actually live.

So, do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people? I certainly believe they can. Do we have the power to change that and try not to let these superficial "personas" impact our quality of life. Yes - we need to remember that we don't always see the bad. What is portrayed on social media and on TV are usually not the whole truth. It is important not to be swayed simply by flashy advertisements, and these fun, successful, happy personas. Take a step back and think critically about the content you consume (via TV, radio, social media, etc.).  "All that glitters is not gold."
