Society has evolved over time; from making your own furniture, tools and clothing, to being able to buy anything you want with one click of a button, from anywhere in the world. Easy, right? With evolution, comes new challenges and hardships. Do we truly need Amazon at our fingertips? Do we need one click ordering? Advertizements for the latest and greatest trends? The great debate continues. Is the world truly happier now that we have aquired more and more 'stuff'?

As the years go on, we grow as a society and want things with a click of a button, and we want them now. We've become a society that orders groceries online, orders clothing online, furnature, baby diapers, get well soon gifts, phones, appliences, pets, you name it. Have we gone too far? Some would say yes. There have been many people criticizing the way the new world works and how far we've taken this 'more is more' lifestyle. I used to love my one-click impulse buys and sadly, associated 'happy feelings' with another package being delivered to my front door. 

As I got older, I had had the opportunity to travel via our sailboat around most of the Eastern Carribean and experience the way that many of these islands and communities live. Immersing myself in their cultures, I began to realize that they didn't need 'stuff' to be happy, so why should I? They don't have Amazon to help them impulse buy. They dont have stores stacked with every gadget imaginable. They reuse, they build, they grow their food. The most amazing takeaway for me was that they didn't throw things away because they were broken, cracked or out of style. They didn't just drive down the street and pick up a new one. They fixed it. If they couldn't fix it, they'd ask their neighbor, who surely could. Noone was redecorating their house every few months or keeping up with the latest fast fashion trends. 

The more time I spent with these people, the more my mindset started to shift. Should we be criticized for the way we shop in many parts of the world? I would have to say, absolutely. If there is anything we can learn, its how to buy sustainable products, local products that feed into our communites. Lets teach the next generation that happiness doesnt come from 'stuff' or from the quick high you get as you press the 'buy now' button. Lets get rid of the fast fashion and impulse buys and help save our communites and our planet.   


