  Most people will agree that happiness is a goal that everyone strives to attain. If we're going to live this life, we might as well be as happy as possible for as long as possible. With that fact in mind, there seems to be two distinct paths you can take to achieve this goal. On one path, you pursue your dreams and your own personal goals. By meeting these goals and making decisions based upon your dreams for life, you can attain happiness. Another path to happiness would be to focus on the improvement of humanity and the happiness of others. By keeping your focus on the larger perspective, you will find happiness and fulfilment along the way. Now, which path is the best one to take?
  The best path to take is the path that keeps your focus on your own personal goals and dreams. You can be no help to anyone else unless you are happy first. You cannot fall into the trap of basing your happiness on how other people feel. This course will make you vulnerable to people who will use you and manipulate you for their own personal gain. Being kind and charitable to others is important, but not at the expense of your own well-being. It is too difficult to focus and base your happiness on improving humanity and being a help to others, it becomes too heavy a burden to bear and everyone involved ends up losing. By focusing on your own personal goals you can control your happiness much more predictably, and also if anything in your plan fails - you know who to blame and how to go about correcting it. Overall, you will be much more likely to maintain happiness by following this path of self-fulfillment.
  Some would argue that if you are only concerned about yourself and your own goals, then you are being selfish and not a fair contributor to society in general. I disagree, and counter that happy and self-fulfilled citizens are able to contribute more to society. If you concenrate on your own happiness, then that positivity will spill over onto everything and everyone you interact with. While it is true that you can't be happy if all you ever think about is yourself, it is also true that if you don't make your own happiness a priority then the others in your life are being deprived of sharing in that happiness with you in their daily lives.
  In conclusion, there is a certain balance to maintain when attempting to achieve happiness in life. There is a choice to make and a path to walk on, and every step you take will either lead to more happiness or more misery to varying degrees. You have to remember that you can only control certain aspects in life, and giving attention to things out of your control is a waste of energy. In choosing a path to take, there is an inherit risk involved that makes your choice a bit of a gamble. Your best course of action is to act based on probability. You are far more likely to be happy if you keep your focus on your personal goals and dreams.
