Many people believe in the old adage "it's a dog eat dog world." They are of the "get them before they get me" mentality. Competition can be very beneficial for some. It can drive people to do their best and work hard to improve their skills. For others, however, intense competition can be damaging to a person's mental health, self esteem, and motivation. Competition can create rivalries, controversy, and can be more of a hindrance than a benefit. When success is the goal, cooperation is much more effective. 

Cooperation and collaboration are at the root of most major accomplishments. When people work together, knowledge is shared and ideas are developed further than they could be by an individual alone. Collaboration brings a variety of experiences, viewpoints, and opinions to the table. This can produce results that go well beyond the individual. When the goal is bigger than a single person, the accomplishments have no limitations. 

Collaboration can be beneficial in miniscule tasks as well as significant events. In our daily lives, we can get much further by working with others. In my own personal life, I do most of the cooking and my husband does most of the cleaning. Sometimes I do more around the house than he does, sometimes he does more than me. It is never about keeping score because we are a team. We accomplish so much more by working together than we would if we were in competition to do more than the other. It would create animosity and start arguments. On a global scale, collaboration has been at the crux of most major accomplishments. The International Space Station is one of the most significant achievements in human history. While the "space race" was a huge competition between various countries, everyone eventually came together and combined knowledge and ideas. This lead to extreme advancements in other areas and benefited many different parts of the world. We continue reaping the benefits of this cooperation. 

Competition does not always have a negative impact. Competition can bring excitement to mundane tasks, can encourage and motivate, and can promote advancement. It can also slow progress, create tension, and cause animosity. When the stakes are high and the consequences are far-reaching, collaboration is the best way to ensure that progress continues and successes are enduring. 
