Whilst many see working indenpendantly as far superior, there are some benefits to working as a team, instead of constantly going head to head with others. Working cooperatively can truly give each member of the group a sense of achieviment, pride, and being a part of the bigger picture. When folks are at war with each other, there can be feelings of inadequacy, resentment, and frustration - none of which are good. Sure, there can be conflicts together as a team, but they pale in comparsion to the issues that can arise competively. As a team, there are certainly more postives than there are negatives, making it a better choice for all.

As members work as a team, everyone has a chance for victory. Each member can be celebrated, as they are utlizied for their specific and different strengths. Someone who doesn't have excellent math skills can be assignes somewhere where there isn't going to be complex -- even, any -- math problems involved. They would flourish, compared to when they may be forced into doing difficult arithmetic in a competing scernario. If everyone would be assigned a task that's in their skillset, more would be accomplished. With everyone accomplishing something, even more so something that they're good at, the groundwork for success is already lain.

Some many disagree with me, saying that they definitely think folks should be striving to win in a competition against each other. While it can lead to repetitive practice in order to bet one's 'score', or even the 'score' of someone else in the opposing team, there's absolutely more to life than the competition - whatever that may be. With that said, getting the practice in and honing your skills over and over can be to your benefit. The assertion and aggression of a battle can be both good and bad; sometimes the adrenaline can push a team to win, but it can additionally cause problems afterward - socially or otherwise. It's worth taking the time to consider whether it will be worthy for your cause.

Honestly, it's up to everyone and the different groups to make their own choice of what will work best for them. Some people see competion as the ideal method, whilst other things cooperation is going to be the ticket. Every situation should be looked at accordingly, and the various options should be weighed. A pros and cons list is a simple way to showcase the advantages and disadvantages of both. Each time you come into a situation where you should be thinking over whether it's competive or cooperative, you really should see which way will fit the scenario and team you are working with.

Since most people don't want brawls after football matches or fist fights during debate matches, it's honestly better if things were more cooperative. Everyone would get a win as they accomplished their goals and met their own benchmarks. There would be less negative energy, if everybody was focused on helping each other, helping them up, instead of being concerned about winners or losers. Cooperation is key to making things a better place, for everyone in the human race.
