     Being materialistic to an extent, not only brings joy but helps our country economically. I believe we should not be criticized for being materialistic and wanting nice items in our life. Buying items brings money into buisnesses pockets which then brings money into the employees pockets. This is how families feed and shelter themselves and their families. If we didnt buy things there would be no jobs and our whole economy would crash. We have to spend money to receive money. This is why you see on the news that when people stop spending so much the stocks decrease and we go into a recession. It also helps people to be creative. Such as artists who create art or toy makers who make toys. Bakers who make cakes and designers who make clothes. Creating things gives them an outlet but also helps them to make money. Such an important part of society.
    
   Being materialistic also brings joy. Imagine on christmas or holidays or special occasions if there was no presents for the children. How much sadness would be in the world. Or on your husband or wife anniversary and there was nothing given. Buying things is a great way to show love to your loved ones. When we think of our loved ones and then buy them a special gift it makes them feel loved and appreciated. When we give our teachers a small present at the end of the school year its showing them we appreciate how much they help our kids. Its also a great way to celebrate achievements, like when you give flowers to your child who performed in thier first play! Also it gives something to look forward to. You work hard so you can then go and treat yourself to buying things you enjoy. It also helps with companionship. I love playing video games with my children. I love playing with toys with my kids to. It allows us to spend time together but also to have fun at the same time. 
  
   I understand some say being materialistic means you don't appreciate things like spending time together. I disagree however because you can spend time with each other while using those things like playing video games or playing baseball. Also some might say to much ends up in the landfills, polluting our earth. However we could recycle those items instead so that doesnt happen. Some may also say that in the old days kids did not have many toys but they were extremely happy anyways. I say that we should always bee continusly trying to improve the lives of our kids. Maybe those kids were happy but I think kids nowadays are actually happier and more intellegent. Toys do not just bring joy but they are also educational. Blocks help fine motor skills and ipads help with math and reading. Imaginative toys also help kids to use their imagination. All very important skills for people to have. 
   Everyone has their own opinions on if we are or are not to materialistic but I say buying and receiving things brings us joy, companionship and helps our economy flourish. I appreciate that we have the ability to improve our lives buy being materialistic. 
   

