     Competition. Friend or foe? 'May the best person win.' 'Survival of the fittest.' versus...
Cooperation towards a common goal. "Teamwork makes the dreamwork." "It takes a village."
"There's no 'I' in 'team."
     I believe people, in general, achieve more success by cooperation. Sure, one can fly around on their own, step on people on their way 'up the ladder' of success. That creates animosity, enemies, backstabbing, gossip; not to mention an inflated sense of self and ego, possible alienation of not only co-workers, but family, and quite possibly shallow relationships.
     Cooperation, and sharing of ideas along with the workload creates a stronger team work environment. More people feel ownership in the final product, or outcomes, and thus will try harder. It also increases two-way lines of communication and higher-up managers interacting with entry and mid-level workers. Cooperation may help all workers achieve a higher measure of success, if ones with more knowledge and expertise help newer co-workers.
     Cooperation has other benefits as well. Cooperation in work, spills over into positive effects personally: more positive interpersonal relations with family members, willingness to help with division of labor of household duties. It also helps society be more successful; different groups, or individuals with differing opinions, can come together for an event, committee, mission, school board, etc. A cooperative mindset may also lead to more success for nonprofits as well as for-profit corporations.
     Granted, success can be defined differently according to individual aspirations.
However, I tend to think success is more highly achieved by cooperation rather than competition. Competition may be fuel for shortcuts, shortsightedness, and less than ethical decision making. Life is definitely complex; better to listen to a variety of viewpoints and experiences. Someone may just have the skill set to complement yours.

(Slogans, or comman phrases heard in society, are used at the beginning of this writing. I was told "not to leave this page while writing" so I am not able to look up references. However, I believe these phrases to be in such common use in the vernacular of the English language and culture as to be able to be used in this essay."
