Materialism, the bane of the modern era. Nothing comes close to the behavior and habits that have shaped the modern era than materialism. Industrialized society has allowed for a behavior of amassing material goods like never before and placing a huge emphasis of our lives and motivations on acquiring material.  

Materialism I believe stems from past generations need to prepare for the winter.  During seasons of plenty many peoples and cultures place an importance on farming, gathering, and preparing for seasons where there is not many resources available. This crucial aspect of humanity has allowed us to plan ahead and prepare to survive times where we lack immediate food and resources to survive. 

In the modern era we no longer have seasons in the sense of resource gathering for individuals and communities. We have the ability to continue to consume resources 365 days a year. This dopamine rush that a person gets when acquiring necessary resources for the "winter" can now be attained all year long which encourages lack of self control. Continuing to spend wealth and time acquiring material even when not needed ends up being a waste of resources. What happens is the natural desire for "material" ends up wasting money on material just for the chemical response of acquiring mateiral.  

I believe to overcome materialism it would require self control and saving and investing money that would otherwise be spent on materialistic endeavours. This would help serve the person by being prepared for "winter seasons" such as automobile accidents, health problems, and sudden financial hardships.  

Many people though would disagree by pointing to their dopamine high that they achieve from consumption of material along with the social status attained from their materialism consumption being advertised to family and friends. 

Lastly, the level of self control to overcome this must be practiced until it becomes a habit, so that the person can attain security and independence in the materialism era.  This personal security and independence can lead to the growth of families in societies with declining birthrates and create generational wealth and land ownership that would not be possible in a materialism centric lifestyle. 

What else is there to say about materialsim than the fact that its caused levels of poverty in families otherwise not seen in modern society. Too much of an emphasis has been placed on attaining material as a way of feeling fulfillment but all it does is create a positive feedback loop of dopamine where you'd need to spend more and more money on things that will "never be enough" to provide long term happiness.   

Modern society hasn't been criticized enough for being materialistic.
