Is competition healthy for society? Can it have adverse effects on an individual's success, motivation, and demeanor? Competition as a concept is ubiquitous in our day-to-day lives, from competitive sports to workplace promotions to video games. Some situations, such as presidental elections, benefit from the competitive process, as it helps the populace to decide on the better candidate. Other situations, such as career advancement and school enrollment, may be worsened by having limited availability and having to fight for one's spot. Geopolitcal tensions can also be exasperated by a competitive spirit, and often leads to catastrophic conflict. While the A vs. B mentality can indeed drive innovation and success, it is essential to recognize the downsides of situations being win or lose. 

In modern culture, the anti-work sentiment is at an all time high while motivation is on the decline. Compared to previous generations, prospective employees are less willing to accept the current standards of the corporate landscape. A quick browse on social media can illuminate the concerns of young people in the work force, as the antiwork community on Reddit and Twitter are increasingly vocal about low pay, workloads outside of job scopes, bureaucratic protocols, and their grievances about the interview process. Needless to say, workplace motivation is an area that employers will need to focus on in order to recruit and maintain valuable workers. Take, for instance, a situation in which two employees are equally qualified for a promotion, but only one position in available. The person passed up for the promotion will face decreased motivation, and this could have longterm effects on how they view themselves psychologically. The same can be applied to enrolling in prestigious schools or academic programs. Decreasing competition for promotions and job openings is a way to keep people satisfied, which may translate to workplace efficiencies, job satisfaction, better mental health, and productivity. 

On the other hand to competition is cooperation. No man builds a house alone. In a typical business structure, people both rely upon others and are themselves relied upon. For example, a research organization cannot function if it does not have multiple moving parts - an operations team, an analytical team, and perhaps a commercial team to push the product/project forward to stakeholders, potential investors, or review boards. All of these processes would be impossible if they were at odds with each other, so cooperation is not only the best strategy for this cohort, it is crucial to the overall group's success. This principle can be applied across various fields and occupations - group projects at school, teams of doctors in an operating room, and construction workers all need to work as a team rather than siloed.

While competition has its benefits, we must recognize that cooperation can also beneficial without the drawbacks of you vs. me. Arguably, businesses and cultures in the world are driven by group mentality and teamwork - very few or no successful companies or cultures exist as a singular person. Competition can be detrimental for a person's mental health, which in turn is detrimental to their job and those around them. Instead, a cooperative society is one that erects buildings, performs heart surgeries, and generally keeps the world moving along.
