Image is everything to some people and alot to others. Some people will tell you they have to have the best brand or product; because they refuse to anything less. They are afraid if they get something that isnt expensive or of latest trends; they feel they will be lesser than everyone else. Image has changed what society sees anymore. 

The media plays a big role in this effect. The media has made women and teenage girls beleive; that they have to be of certain size, and certain hair color to be accepted as beautiful. When in reality beauty is on the inside, it has nothing to do with how you look or your shape or weight. Politicains are really bad at what their image is rather than what is truly important. They will say things and makes promises to society just to get what they want so they look better. When in reality they will do nothing of those sorts, they make promises to certain ethnicties or lower class just to get their vote. They have to make themselves seem like they care about them in order to get their vote. They only care how well they can make themselves look better than really focuse on what the core issues are. 

Image has had such a negative effect on people that we lose site of what really is important, whats most important is how we treat others and how we come together as communities and societies. We need to stop looking at how we look or if we have the best of everything. If we would just live to love ourselves and those around us then how we look or how popular we are will have no affect on people, only then will we truly stop caring about what our image protrays to those around us. 

I myself have been a victim of being impressed to be a certain way or uphold a certain image. It affected my life in such a negative way, I lost site of who I truly was as a person. I was so wrapped with how I was supposed to act and dress, I became afraid to steer away from this image. I was so scared of what the consequences would be. The people around me could see, those who I chose to be my friends had such an impression on me, that I stopped being my true self. I became someone they didn't know or want to be around. I was so worried about how my image or attitude was I couldn't see I was hurting those around me. 

I learned from then that, the only person we need to impress or have any image upon is ourselves. How we look at ourselves is truly the one impression we should care about. If we love, like, and are happy with whom we are as a person inside and out, then other opinions will have zero effect on us. If us as a society would stop trying to impress or stand up to certain standards that society thinks we should, I believe alot of issues would be solved. I understand we have  to keep with the time and address other issues, but if we would just stop wondering what others think of us, I truly believe we all would be much happier. 

The media needs to stop making people feel they have to look a certain way to be accepted. Fashion, weight, color, or even gender needs to stop defining people. Eating a certain diet or going with the new fad of trends needs to stop effecting everyone. If everyone would dress, act, weigh and look exactly how they want and feel, it shouldn't be judged. Not one person is the same as the next, and who are we to tell someone how to live their life and what kind of image or standard they are suppose to uphold. If everyone would leave image out of the equation, I belive we as people would live a better, happier, and more free life. 


