Since the first early humans arrived on the African plains, humankind has used cooperation to build communities, to raise their children, to care for the ill and infirm among them, and economically to share resources to the benefit of the entire community. It is (figuratively) in our DNA and as social animals, we do ourselves a great disservice when we ignore this fundamental component of our humanness. We are pack animals.

In the current year -- and certainly in the United States of America where individualism reigns supreme -- even with the entire world at our fingertips thanks to the internet we are more separated than ever. Loneliness is at an all-time high, thanks in part to the pandemic and the devastating effect lockdowns had on in-person socializing. Go on any social media app and you'll find millions of opinions being flung around like poop in a monkey cage; people don't have conversations anymore, they just yell at each other. We are angry and divided. We have forgotten our roots, back when fur-covered early man worked together to ensure optimal survival in a frightening world full of predators and diseases. Nowadays we aren't getting chased across the plains by blood-thirsty, dinosaur-looking eagles, our biggest threat is ourselves and our inability to relearn how to work together.

This separation is a big reason why we need to embrace cooperation, toward repairing relationships and working together toward a common goal. There's a saying "the whole is greater than the sum of its parts" which in the context of this essay can be taken to mean that when people cooperate toward a common goal, the effect they can have is more significant than that which any one individual can make on their own.

Think about the environment for example. Do you dutifully separate your recyclables from your trash? Great! Unfortunately, you and your couple cardboard boxes a week barely make a dent in the problem of modern man overwhelming our home planet with trash. But when we as a society make conscious choices together, we can make a difference. What if everyone who could got rid of their car and rode a bike instead? Or if we stopped ordering plastic junk on Amazon that is shipped halfway across the world in giant, fuel-sucking barges? What if instead we focused on shopping local, and instead of buying out-of-season fruit that has to get shipped in we ate only locally-sourced, in-season fruits and veggies? Perhaps we could make a difference. And that difference could mean a positive impact on the environment, something that benefits all of us.

This author has hope that it's not too late for us. That we can dig down and find that cooperative spirit upon which all of human civilization is founded. By working together and finding common ground, we can have a positive effect on the biggest issues affecting all of us: war, the environment, equality. Life is not a competition, there is plenty to go around for all of us and each of us bring unique strengths to the table; by combining these strengths we become an unstoppable force for good.

A good place to start would be to find common ground with someone very different from you. Have a respectful conversation with someone on the other side of the political spectrum, listen to each other and understand where that person is coming from. You might be surprised to discover similiarities with that person, if not politically then you may bond on a favorite sports team, or perhaps you are both parents and can relate to the sleepness nights of early parenthood. Making this small step to see the world from someone else's eyes might help to reconnect with the spirit of cooperation, of understanding that we are all on this journey together even when we are going our own way. We can then apply this to our own personal struggles and goals, knowing that we have the support of the community and people close to us to support and encourage us all the way.

Make cooperation great again!


