Do people achieve more success by competition or by cooperation? That is the question that many people wonder. There are pros and cons to both. I happen to believe that cooperation is the key to success. Competetion has never made me feel like a good person but I always feel good when I cooperate. I guess it depends on how far you take it.

Competition as long as it's healthy competition can be a really good thing. It can motivate people to work harder, try better and be their best self. It can also cause people to be mean, do the wrong thing and hurt others all for the sake of winning. Some people will go to extremes just to win because they are that competitive. It can cause bad rivalry at work, on a team, at school, etc. There have been many instances in real life where this has happened. I once heard about a girl named Laurie Show and watched a documentary about her. She was killed by her best friend because her friend was jealous of her. They were in competition for the same guy, the same friends, etc. The competition got too much for the killer, Michelle, and she ended up brutally killing Laurie.

Let's talk about Cooperation. Cooperation and cooperating with others is a good thing because it's always good to have people on your side and people that you can help and who can help you. Working together with others can make you more productive by giving you ideas you never thought of or just everyone helping each other get things done. Be a team and your contributions and where you shine at will be noticed and you will succeed. Cooperation can sometimes causes others to walk all over you and see you as weak but I think that's less likely and it says more about someone else's character than it does yours. 

In conclusion, I firmly believe people achieve more success by cooperation and the accomplishments are more significant and long lasting. The more people you have on your side and cooperate with, the better. I have heard many stories where competitive people often burn bridges and are very much disliked as people. Sometimes being competitive makes you lose focus because all you care about is winning and you forget what is really important. Now don't get me wrong, as I have stated, competition can be a good thing to motivate you and there have been many instances of healthy and friendly competition that was productive but it's too risky and often and easily gets out of hand. Statistics show that a majority of people believe in cooperation over competition and I couldn't agree more.
