While materialism has been existent in some manner or another throughout all generations, it's definitely more noticeable in today's modern society. We're all guilty of it to some degree, but it appears the younger generation has taken materialism a bit too far. However, one must ask if these people are to be blamed for their excessive taste for material possessions. After all, they have obtained their knowledge from previous generations and it is most likely considered a learned behavior. We all spend significant amounts of our time consuming one thing or another to a large degree, but the question arises as to whether or not modern day society should be criticized for something that has been going on generations.

In modern day society, far too many people consider the value of money and the things it can buy to be greater than ever before. In the past, people were more content with socializing and held greater spiritual and cultural beliefs. I think these beliefs are what kept people so grounded. Today, the balance between what is and what is not important in life seems to be off. For instance, some people are more concerned with a scratch on their Apple Watch or iPhone case more than someone who is in need of assistance. Before all of these possessions were availabe, people payed greater attention to other individuals and their needs. Despite all this, modern society is not to be completely blamed for such materialism. No one individual created this pattern of excessive spending and acquiring possessions. With the development of technology came an increased habit for individuals to desire new and improved products. So, if we are looking for someone to blame, we can't pinpoint the blame on any specific group of individuals. Materialism in today's world has almost developed naturally by people gaining knowledge and therefore, more power.

With all the knowledge and power that people hold in modern society, it is nearly impossible to go backwards and have people not care about materialism. Materialism does have many good aspects associated with it, such as personal happiness and economical benefits. The problem is that people are now more focused on their personal possessions than they are on culture and religion. I think we all need to take a step back and remember what brought us here in the first place. The money and possessions that we hold are nice to have,  but we wouldn't have them without a greater force at play.
