While everyone would love to say they are not materilaistic, everyone has that thing that they'd spend money on to improve their daily lives, keep up with status quo, or just feel good about themselves. Craving material things is not a new trait and even dates back to the aceint Romans and Egyptians that showed the same materialistic traits we possess today. Being materialistic is not a modern trait and modern society should not be critized for being such.


Today's society survives off money made from goods that are not considered essential. Food, water, and shelter are the only essentials humans need to survive. But what if I want a fancy dinner? Botteld water?  An elaborate mansion? Does this fall under the food, water, and shelter cateogry? While some may claim these are materialistic wants and not needs there is a fine line drawn, but does this make you a bad person for spending on these needs instead of wants? If it does then every human since the begining of the barter system is materialistic. Not just modern society. Acient egyptians spent resources, such as gold and silver for the newest technologies and fashion. Acient Romans spent their jewels and other goods for paintings and sculptures. Europeans killed for and died for art, gold, and castles. If all humans have has some sort of materialistic want since the begining of time does this make it a human trait and not a product of modern society?


The chemicals released throughout our body when we aquire something we want is addicting. Dopamine gets released and makes us feel good when we get a new handbag, clothes, house, or anything else we can imagine, this makes us want to do it again. It makes us happy. Some people put themselves through hell to aquire enough money to buy the things they want just to feel that happiness. In modern society it is much easier to gain access to these things that make us happy, therefore it appears that this is a modern problem we face. But if acient civilizations were killing each other over it, is it really a modern problem?

Modern society shoud not be criticized for being materialistic. Humans, as a species, should be criticized for being materilaistic but it's a problem we have faced for centuries. And as long as goods continue to be easily accessable we will continue to want to buy things. 

