     In this day and age, a debate is being waged over the benefits of competition versus cooperation. Specifically, this debate is aimed at the influence of competition and cooperation on personal success. Indeed, many organizations have thrown their chips in on either side, investing in things like performance incentives, on the one hand, or initiatives like company retreats and open workspaces, on the other.
     When it comes to personal success, however, competition is the key. Individuals require a competitive environment in order to achieve maximum results.
     There are several reasons for this. First off, negative motivation compels humans to act much more strongly than does positive motivation. This has evolutionary roots. If a person were being chased by a predator in the wild, this provides a much stronger compulsion to act than the possibility of finding extra food or resources, to give but one example. As a species, we're hardwired to conserve energy, and we therefore require an unpleasant stimulus before we act. Competitive environments provide this stimulus. Though some people have the discipline to act on internal motivation, they are the exception and not the rule. Generally speaking, most people will respond more powerfully to a hostile competitive environment. 
    Beyond the motivation paradigm, one must take into account the very definition of personal success. Personal success is an individual achievement, and is thus achieved in isolation. Cooperation is diametrically opposed to this concept. Indeed, cooperation implies some degree of personal sacrifice or compromise in the interest of a group, necessarily limiting personal achievement. By creating a competitive environment, individuals are forced to look at their achievements in stark relief with those of others, thus poising them for action and growth.
     Some may argue in favor of cooperation, and indeed, one can see how cooperation may achieve positive results. Communication between team members, sharing of knowledge, and division of labor may all result in a net gain for an organization or community, but that's exactly the problem. The issue at hand is personal success, not corporate success. Those at the top have something to gain from cooperation amongst inferiors. Furthermore, cooperation may indeed help some people to be more personally successful, but these people are the slackers and underachievers. Cooperation will serve to shore up their deficits while taking away from those who could have achieved more on their own. 
     In summary, it is competition which drives personal success. Competition provides the catalyst and the mechanism for personal success, coming in the form of negative motivation and an individualistic mindset, respectively. Though cooperation can achive results for large-scale interests, it doesn't create the right conditions for personal success. 
