Helen of Troy once launched 1000 ships just by her appearance (and angry, cuckolded husband). Considered the most beautiful of all, her many peers have come after her-- movie stars, models, the odd princess, queen, or prince.  In the same powerful category you find kings of great stead, untouchable famed men and women, and the heroes of fairy tales.

What makes any of them powerful is their appearance, or the image built and cultivated around them.  The image that, if peeled back, could reveal not the greatness we see in our minds, but a normal, flawed human being.  We don't let that happen, however; beyond that, we don't want it to happen. At a certain point, the facade becomes confused with the person and we let that facade become something great, wonderful, and untouchable.   The images and impressions have too great an effect on us-- they become our reality.  In the end, it hurts us. 

Time and time again, we've heard how the manufactured images of beautful women-- models and movie stars-- are internalized by young women.  The result is a feeling of being less-than, and often results in self or body image issues; it can create eating disorders so severe that death is easily possible.  In a strange way, this can also be seen in the defense of people who have committed terrible crimes.  Ted Bundy got followers for his looks-- as a serial killer.  Chris Brown is somehow still drooled over for his looks and voice, even after nearly beating Rhianna to death.   There are still people that defend Woody Allen as deserving of a place among the great men of film, even after he groomed and married his step daughter and fled the country.  There has been study after study that we automatically and unconsciously associate beauty with goodness, and uglyness with evil.  The princess versus the evil hag; the handsome knight against the beast.  Even our unconscious minds have pledge to the myth.

You could argue that in the case of Woody Allen or Chris Brown, you must 'separate the art from the artist'.  That said, the art stems from and is part of the artist, and thus can never truly be separated.  In the case of the young women starving themselves to achieve an impossible standard, you could say that they make a conscious choice, not one dictated by curated media.  But when that media is the only thing you see, and it is seen as an ideal, you feel a need to become it unconsciously-- part of the larger argument of why representation matters.

In the end, we will always have our gods and goddesses-- those we hold above us as paragons of virtue and grace simply by their appearance, or by the image crafted around them.  We shouldn't, and knowing that we shouldn't is the best start we could have.  By dragging that knowledge front and center to our conciousness, we can start to undo the damage it creates, and help remove the damagingly great effect it has, and the power it holds over us.
