It is no secret that we live in a world that enables instant gratification, where anyone can make a purchase from practically anywhere in the world whenever they want, and have it delivered to their doorstep in a matter of days. This evolution of modern technology and product accessibility has no doubt caused people to become more materialistic simply because they can be. This has been heavily criticized by modern society, and for good reason. Materialism at its extreme is ultimately bad for the environment, bad for the economy, and bad for peoples' sense of fulfillment and happiness.
Companies such as Amazon, which promote free and fast shipping, or Shein and Wish, which promote cheap fashion, can be directly and indirectly harmful to the environment. The production and shipping of these items causes the creation of more waste from factories and transportation. They also facilitate the creation of more waste simply because people have more stuff to throw away. Additionally, they are bad for the economy. Materialistic people are more likely to go onto a fast fashion website where they can purchase more clothes for less money then they are to purchase one or two more expensive items at a local business. If materialism continues to grow, small businesses will struggle to survive. Lastly, access to acquiring tons of possessions and constantly getting new things will most likely lead people to being less appreciative of what they have, which may lead to an overall feeling of emptiness and a lack of fulfillment. 
In contrast, some may argue the complete opposite about materialism. In fact, it may be good for the economy if the money people are spending is going towards small and local businesses and helping the middle class to thrive. Additionally, materialism might be good for peoples' mental health and fulfillment if they use shopping as a form of positive social interaction. Ultimately, is it really anyone's place to judge if people want to spend their own money in a way that doesn't hurt anyone else? Materialism in excess can be bad for the environment, economy, and public mental health in many ways, but materialism within reason could serve good in many others.
