      In today's achievement driven world, people are always looking for a way to make a name for themselves. In both the business world and in people's own lives, competition is seen as a great motivating factor to drive innovation. Companies often use the strategy of pitting coworker against coworker to deliver results. While this can indeed improve productivity for individual people, it isn't the best motivator for everyone. Some people are naturally more passive than others and do not do their best work when faced with opposition. The best way to achieve success is through cooperation.
     There are many people that thrive on competition and may do very well when challenged by others. There are more people that would shut down and be less likely to offer ideas and participate when facing the same circumstances. When feeling intimidated, some people will tend to be quiet or go with the flow so as not to draw attention to themselves. They may have great ideas but be reluctant to share in a setting that could be seen as hostile. If we aren't working with everyone involved in a project, we are missing potentially great ideas.  Competition tends to go with the loudest and most forceful ideas, not the best. By focusing on the competitive aspects of achieving success, you are only hearing one voice. It can breed contempt amongst other participants because they feel like they aren't being heard. The best way to accomplish things is to work together to get it done. That way, everyone has a stake in the successfullness of an idea.
    If you want to breed innovation and long-term success, you need to make sure everyone is on the same page. This applies to both business and personal aspects of a person's life. One cannot accomplish success without the help and support of others. We all need people to help us out. The best part of working together is that everyone will experience success, not just one person. It will be in everyone's best interest to continue working together to help each other. Happier people make better decisions.

