When I was younger, I thought being happy required doing things that I enjoyed. If I did stuff I enjoyed doing, that I would have a good time. If I had to do something I didn't like, but others enjoyed, there was no way I was going to have fun and enjoy myself.  As I got older, I found someone that I wanted to make happy.  It made me feel good to put energy and effort into making this person happy. If they were upset, I'd get upset. I didn't like it when they were upset, so I dedicated myself into making them happy. Turns out she felt the same way. Fast forward a few years and we end up getting married. 

Eventually we decided we wanted to have kids, and once they came along, we found something new that made us happy. Working together to give our kids the most enjoyable and loving life possible. We dedicate just about everything we do to our childrens happiness. We work hard, self sacrifice and give our lives to our kids. There are times where things get rough and overwhelming, but a child's smile and love make it all worth it. Them growing up and learning positive things and looking up to you, wanting to be like it. It's an unconditional love that provides a joy you cannot experience otherwise.

I never understood why my parents worked so hard when I was younger. But I do now, and I wish they were still here so I could show them the gratitude that they deserve. I didn't appreciate it. I took it all for granted. But that's part of growing up. Looking back now, I see the things they did to teach me how to be a man. I see how much they gave up so they could provide for me the things they wanted when they were younger. It took me a long time, but I eventually made sense of it all.

Sure there are some people that do not want kids, and that's perfectly fine. We all have different desires in life. If doing things selfishly is what makes one person happy, so be it. To someone like me, it seems superficial and fake. Eventually we all get old, and I do not want to spend my older years alone with no legacy. I owe it to my parents to pass along the things and ideals they taught, but never shoved down my throat. To me, happiness is providing for loved ones, and nothing anyone can say to me will convince me otherwise.
