
The energy has shifted and the ways of the world have changed including the people in it. Yes, I believe images and impressions have had too much of an effect on people especially these days. We are living in times of confusion, narcissism, keeping in touch via social media, social networking, online dating, filters, conspiracy theories, and when things and situations can easily be manipulated such as DeepFake via the world of technology. Although appearances and reality have been around since the beginning of time and the days before we were even born, there are different trends now and the way life is lived and the way we use things. Such as advertising and marketing. At times we tend to move faster, always adding more, more, more, more is the way to go it seems! Always wanting something more and different in the ways of marketing and media. We are a species of no satisfaction. This can be so loud without even realizing it or we are doing so subconsciously. There's always something missing, or we want... we need. The media and marketing benefits from the formula of the typical insecurity of a person. A person doesn't feel like they have an identity without a job title or money, material things. Hungry for more. Unnecessary junk and crap can distort the mind. Extreme sucess can distort the ego. Humans are vulnerable.

I believe media plays a big part and major roles in how things progress through the looking (magnifying) glass. I also think it is easier to brain wash people, when certain messages affect the masses. Only certain people and only a few are actually awake but most are still asleep, they are more like sheep and just follow without actually applying critical/analytical thinking. Some can have a hard time with actually having a thought of their own or something more original. Which comes out being more like echoes in thought, well because someone heard it from someone who heard it from someone else. The telephone game, to be more precise, and if that is what is being played and shown to us then somewhere along the way, someone gets it wrong eventually and the repetive patterns show fallacy in there somewhere. Truth is there is no such thing as perfect. No one ever will be. But we live in times, where everyone has an opinion for sure and it's easy to have one. Just by looking around and paying attention I have come to this sort of open ended conclusion. 

Perhaps this is just how life plays out for the time being, riding the currents of the waves. There is a time, there is a place, there is a season. Perhaps, the wisest way to live is to deal with what we face rather than what we want to see.
