The big question is about if competition is better than cooperation. There are times that it's nice to work with others to get things done, but it's much better if you have that drive to work harder or faster because of competition. I'm someone who believes that competition is the way to go for almost everything. Without competition I wouldn't be where I am in my place of employment. I wouldn't of had the chance to move up the corporate ladder like I have. Honestly, if it wasn't for competition, I probably would still be working the same lame job that I was working when I was all finished with school and that is a job that I hated. Competition motivated me to do more with my life.
I'm someone who works much harder when I'm being pushed to do better than my coworkers. I've also seen competition help push people to work harder in sports and in the job world. A person who is pushed to work harder in sports will be the person who has a chance to go on to college with a scholarship. A person who gets to go to college and not have to pay for it has a easier time with there introduction to the adult world. Someone who has to pay to go to college spends a lot of years after college trying to pay off that debt. People end up with enough debt as it is that if you can get that competitive advantage that's a good thing. Same goes for the working world. If you can be pushed to be competitive and rise above the other people you work along side you will have a greater chance of making your way up that ladder. The higher up the ladder you go and the more money you are able to bring home. If you spend too much time just working along side of others they might be seen as the person that deserves to move up the ranks while you are just stuck at the bottom of the ladder not making any more money and not feeling like you are contributing all that much. Competition does a good job of pushing people towards a goal that they maybe didn't even realize they had. Competition can lead to success that helps open up doors that you didn't expect to have opened for you. If you just continue to cooperate with people you might not push yourself to the limit and you will just become a stale version of yourself. Competition pushes people to get out of their shell and show off their skills. Competition is what helped push inovation. Without competition things in this world wouldn't be better. We probably wouldn't have things like cellphones and even cars because people would have been fine with things like riding horses. Competition is what breeds inovation. Inovation is something that is greatly needed for the world to grow, expand, and become better.
I've said a lot of things about how good competition is and I want to address that cooperation is great in some contexts. I think that with children growing up together that cooperation is good right along side of competition. I think that it's good for siblings to compete but it's also good for them to cooperate so that they aren't always fighting. I also think that cooperation is good in a relationship. My wife and I have a very competitive relationship but we know when it's time to pack that away and actually work together. This isn't something that we really realized until we had kids though. Our oldest son started to get really good at games and my wife and I realized that we needed to work together so that he wouldn't win all the time. Somehow our son has turned out even more competitive than my wife and I. So when it comes down to it cooperation is best suited in the home more than anywhere else. Cooperation in the home doesn't help you to succeed, it just helps you to be able to get along and be able to live together in a bit of harmony.
In conclusion, competition is necessary to keep things moving in the right direction and cooperation just keeps things the way they are. If you believe in having something more than the status quo you need competition. Competition is what I believe helps the world blossom into what it needs to be. 
