As society becomes more individualistic in nature, the question of whether competition or cooperation is necessary to help drive us foward as a species comes into play. There are those who argue that competition is a necessary and healthy part of any society, and takes precedence over the importance or value unity may have when ensuring success. On the other hand, dissenters argue that competition can only carry one so far, that the exchange and sharing of ideas is necessary and important for a well rounded person and a lasting impact, and I am inclined to agree. 

While competition is a necessay and vital part of any society, and a important quality for any one person to have, cooperation in the long term is what we as humans thrive on. For one, by nature, humans are social creatures and cooperation taps into that intrinsic need for unity, togetherness and corroboration. Furthermore, cooperation promotes the exchange and flow of ideas that otherwise might have been disregarded or dismissed in a competitive environment. Supporters of competition as a tactic to promote growth in society and in each individual might argue that that competition promotes reward and punishment in the form of losing and winning, which provides that necessary push needed to get things done, but I believe that cooperation encourages, an even healthier form of winning, without fear of punishment. 

For one, humans are social creatures. We thrive in sitations where our thoughts, ideas and feelings are freely expressed and encouraged. Cooperation provides the perfect opportunity for this. Competition promotes feelings of being closed off and isolated from one another. In turn, this may lend itself to aggitation and aggression. Quite often when you compare environments where competition is high and cooperation is low, these environments tend to be higher-stress, more cut throat, and indivuals demonstrate higher levels of aggression. Cooperation encourages mindfullness, selflessness, and there is a less focus on "I" and a greater focus on "us." Cooperation promotes the flow and exhange of positive emotions such as empathy, understanding, and patience. These are important traits for any one person to have to acheive greater success- and happiness in their lives.

Furthermore, There is a reason, why scientists often colloborate on projects and utilize the source material and studies of other scientists when making their own experiments. Every person comes with their own set of strengths and weaknesses. Corroboration is like, several branches together and attempting to break them. It is harder to break a bundle of sticks than it is just one stick. Cooperation allows for people to express and share ideas that someone else might not have thought of. As indivuals this encourages us to shift our line of thinking, and adopt new and different perspectives on the same ideas and concepts. It encourages us to grow, and oftentime we find ourselves inspired by the creativity of others.

For those who argue that competition provides that drive needed to get things done, I agree. Unit however, can also promote this drive. Working together with people who share a common goal, can inspire one, to take even further action. I would argue that the fear of letting ones team down in a cooperative environment is even greater than the fear of letting oneself down, in a competitive environment. 

Competition in a society is needed. People respond well to reward and punishment. It is engrained in our minds since childhood, in the form of trophies, toys and report cards. Cooperation however, is just as potent and even moreso to ensuring ones success. Cooperation taps into our intrnisic desire for unity and community, it encourages us to think outside the box and can quiet our egos, and it promotes a positive environment that rewards togetherness and allows us to reach common goals quicker. Every great businessman, scientist and woman or man throughout history had people to rely on, people to comminicate with. There is only so much we can learn from ourselves. 
