              Looks can be deceiving, but do they have too much of an effect on us? When mcdonalds has a Tv ad and they're displaying their new burger, it looks amazing. The perfect slice of tomato, the perfect cut of lettuce, the fluffy bread, the juicy tender meat. But when you goto mcdonalds and actually buy the burger it looks nothing like the one you saw in the ad!

        I believe images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people because thats what sells. People see something they like and it attracts them to it. Just like seeing a pretty lady or a good looking guy, Image is what attracts people. They say first impressions are the most important and the first impression you get of someone is how they look. Another example of how images have too much of an effect is celebrities wearing outrageous clothing and the society see's it as fashion. But this is all because the image of the celebrity is that they are a fashion icon so whatever they wear is the newest trend,meanwhile what they are wearing is totally not a fashion sense, but people will side with the celebrity just because they have that image of being the "icon".
    People may disagree and say its all subjective and up to the actual person if the image or impression effects them because they can be a skeptic and not take images of food, celebritys, marketing packages into thought when making purchases. They can say they bought the food because they like how it taste and not care about how it looks. They can say they like the outrageous clothing the celebrity is wearing regardless of whose wearing it. They can say they dont care how good the guy or girl looks because it matters what kind of personality they have.
    I do believe believe that Images and impressions do in fact have too much of an effect on people regardless if they say not. We are sorrounded by images, color packages, marketing everywhere. Everyday of our life somethings image was made to attract our eyes and make us more interested. Otherwise there wouldnt be marketing departments in these giant companies that are there specifically to get consumers to buy from their brand.

