Your mind is being bent to the will of advertisors, without your knowledge, through the manipulation of advertisements. Though the use of color, sound, and celebraty images companies move your thoughts towards their product. They create a desire within us to seek out their products and a need to buy their product, even if you had never considered their product or brand before.

Companies spend millions of dollars studying what colors will grab the attention of their target customer, what colors will invoke a desired emotional response. The results of these studies are used to sell products and even to get votes in political elections. Think about the MAGA movement. What emotions do you instantly feel when you see someone wearing a red baseball cap, even before you can read the letters across the brim. Think about the colors in the background of adds that want to sell you makeup. They are most likely white, clean, and crisp. You will not see colors that are traditional thought to be masculine. This data is collected and used to influance the consumers.

There are some who say that advertisements have become so artistic and complex that often times the consumer does not recognize the product being sold. This may be true for a few consumer, but most will actually take notice and try to figure out what the ad is trying to sell. Thereby drawing in the consumer, who may have otherwise ignored the ad. These adds are not confusing on accident. It is a delibert and calculated method to sell their products, through the use of things that have nothing to do with the product itself.

In addition to the use of colors companies will use music to envoke an emptional response. For example, the Trump rallies would play the song, "We're Not Going To Take It" to fire up the audiance and the target base. Without knowing it the audiance would beging to get emptional, angry, and start to scream the words to the song. Yet, if they had stopped to think critically, they would have realized that the song is actually writen about the exact opposite message that the song was used to convey. The end result is a large crowd 

These types of advertisements distract us from thinking critically about the product. Do we really need the product? Does this product support our value system? Is this the company that I want to buy this product from? If consumers don't ask these questions, they can not be sure that they have made the right purchase. If we are manipulated into purchasing, then we are not being treated as compitant and knowledgable individuals. Advertisements no longer try to provide us with real information about the product. Instead, they try to manipulate and trick the consumer into handing over their money, without knowing they have been exploited.
