     In today's world, image is everything. But has it become more important than the truth? Have we become so dazzled by the flashing lights, the bells and whistles, that we simply fail to recognize ugly truths hiding behind them? Or even worse, do we choose to embrace a comfortable lie rather than face harsh reality? I believe we have, and nothing good can come of it. Images and impressions  have far too much of an effect on people.

     Take the example of Donald Trump. This is a man with no experience in the political arena who decided to run for President of the United States. He packaged himself as a man of the people, an outsider who was going to fight the corrupt system on behalf of the little guy. He blasted this message out to the nation, and people believed it despite the well known reality that this man was a wealthy businessman from New York City and a member of the social elite. His lack of experience and knowledge was put on display for the nation to see. He foundered in debates, and serious questions were raised about his emotional and mental state, his veracity, and his capacity to actually do the job. However, the appearance and image he presented won out, and he was elected, with what many would describe as dangerous and disastrous results.

     There are many other examples of image and appearance shifting people's perception of reality. How many politicians look intelligent and serious but are in reality just reading what actual intelligent people write for them? How many beloved celebrities present a wholesome image to the world but do horrible things behind closed doors? We have seen evidence of these pretty lies hiding dark truths again and again, usually after much damage has already been done. It seems that if someone presents a positive image, people are easily lulled into believing it and will even defend their position when faced with contradictory facts, painting them as lies or "fake news".

     Some will say that facts are subjective, that we create our own reality. This is not true, and it is magical thinking at its most dangerous. Facts are facts. Facts are verifiable. We should all pay more attention to the facts and try to ignore the shiny packages. We need to think critically and independently. Research  people, topics, products, and everything else BEFORE deciding. We need to be strong enough and brave enough to always look for the truth, no matter how tarnished, dented and ugly it may be. We owe it to ourselves and the world.

