Our capitalist society is ruled by advertisement and impression. Constantly, people purchase products based on a quick advertisement by their favorite celebrity influencer or a flashy video before their youtube video starts. It is not only limited to products though, people buy into ideas and philosophies based on similarly shallow media. In this essay, I will argue that impressions and images have far too much sway over the products we purchase and even the things we believe.

One of the more prominent examples of this is in the product adverisements we see in day to day life. If you watched the recent super bowl, you've experienced many of the more effective methods of advertisements. Companies no longer highlight the features of their products in their commercials, but instead attempt to associate their products with favorable ideas, celebrities or media trends. Instead of highlighting the features of their newest vehivle, an automobile manufacturer instead chooses to show a quick video of as many celebrities as they can driving the vehicle. Instead of highlighting the competitive cost of their service, a food delivery service chooses to show people eating things like cat litter and toilet paper to get a quick laugh out of the viewer. By incorporating humor or celebrity into their advertisements, these corporations attempt to charm consumers into buying their products without us even knowing anything about the product. This can be taken further as we examine how Americans choose things like their political identity and religious ideology. If one were to log onto to any social media service during a presidential race, they would be bombarded with clickbait headlines about which celebrity was seen speaking with which presidential candidate. Many people may base their political views off of which of their favorite celebrities is supporting which campaign, and while I don't have any clear evidence of this, I think the clickbait headlines speak for themselves.

It is important to note that at the end of the day, it is up to the consumer to choose what we purchase or believe in. These companies may run flashy advertisements and there may be clickbait headlines trying to make us lean one way or another, but it is truly up to us to do the research and make these decisions for ourselves. Can a company really be blamed for trying to maximize its profits by hiring celebrities to do advertisements? Can a news network really be blamed for creating a headline that will get them the most readers or viewers? If the consumers could only see through the thin veil of celebrity and flashiness and do their own research, this problem could be easily avoided. Further, if consumers were to avoid these products that used these particularly problematic advertisement strategies, the companies would be forced to abandon these methods. I believe this is the strongest counterargument to my case, that instead of blaming companies for using these strategies, perhaps we should blame the consumer for falling for them.

In conclusion, I do believe that image and impression holds far too much sway within our society. Companies, news networks, and even political candidates use superficial methods to get us, the consumer, to buy what they are selling. While we could look at this as a problem of consumer naivety instead of problematic methods of corporations, I believe this is not truly fair. Can we really put the onus on the individual consumer to see through the cleverly designed marketing methods of the billion dollar corporations? It seems clear that the average American is not on an even playing field with the corporate titans who have poured millions of dollars and years of research into creating the most provocative advertisement. It seems a more reasonable proposition to install some regulation over these massive companies in order to protect the individual. Ultimately, I believe that American society is far too focused on images and impressions, and that this stems from the marketing and advertising methods that have become common place in American society. If we can regulate this kind of advertisment, we may be able to begin to remove the superficial focus our society is plagued with.
