Ever since the time of Ancient Greece social commentators have bemoaned what they percieved to be the decay of society. Each generation is supposedly weaker or more corrupt than the last. This trend has continued to this day, as many seek to ascribe all manner of ills to modern society. However, as the saying goes, a broken clock is right at least twice a day. Is it possible that there is a genuine flaw of modern society that deserves criticism? For many, that flaw is materialism: the propensity of individuals and groups to acquire possessions and spend money on things not necessary to survive. While complains of society being weak or feeble are hard to back up with evidence, the idea that modern society is highly materialistic is quite a bit easier to show: one need only point at the nearest shopping mall, online retailer, or production figures. While materialism in its entirety is not always evil, modern society has taken materialism too far, leading to detrimental impacts on personal finances, social stratification, and the environment. As such, the criticism of modern society as being too materialistic is valid.

The clearest detrimental impact of materialism is that on the personal wealth of everyone who engages in it. Quite simply put, buying more and more goods requires more and more money. Obviously there are many who can afford highly materialistic lifestyles, and others who manage to balance their spending well, but the fact that so many people are unable to and end up with little left in their bank accounts is not entirely their fault. Our capitalist society encourages spending through means such as advertising, artificial holidays, and promoting trends in consumption. This pressures people into spending, often to their personal detriment.

Another thing that feeds into that spending is the effect of materialism on social stratification. Identity in society has become tied extensively to the possession of various goods. Owning larger TVs, larger cars, flashier purses, etc is a signifier of not just wealth but worthiness in the eyes of many. This in turn pressures more and more people to spend money, feeding into the aforementioned issues, and also drives wedges between individuals and groups that lead to further conflict.

Finally, the materialism of modern society relies heavily upon massive amounts of resource extraction and energy expenditure to manufacture all the goods that people buy. Almost every plastic item requires some amount of petroleum to be manufactured, for example. That people buy so many things that are totally unecessary for survival is a major contributor to climate change and the destruction of the environment through mining, drilling and pollution.

It would be an error to say that materialism is always bad. The act of treating oneself to a luxury item, or giving something nice to a friend or family, can have obvious positive impacts to mental health. Consumption is also provides for a great many jobs, employing people in the manufacture, sale, and distribution of items. However, while limited materialism has its benifits, the fact that our planet as a whole is being damaged shows that our modern society has taken materialism too far.

Modern society is not doomed, nor is it inherently worse than human society at any other point in time. It is not, however, without its flaws, and chief among them is materialism. Materialism may not be entirely evil, but the degree to which it is embraced by society should be criticized for the ills that said embrace has caused.
