     There are many ways to achieve happiness. Happiness can be found through personal goals or by making happiness in others. I think one can achieve happiness by setting and achieving personal goals. It is those goals and working toward them that will bring happiness into one's life. 
     Once goals are set. One needs to remain focused on those goals. I think it is also important to break a larger goal into smaller tasks. By doing this, one can achieve happiness while working towards the main goal. For example, if one would be happy by planting and reaping the benefits from a garden. The task can be broken down into smaller tasks to achieve happiness while working towards the final goal of reaping a lovely harvest from said garden. I think hoeing and weeding, mulching, fertilizing and pruning can be smaller tasks that can give happiness on the way to the goal of harvesting yummy vegetables. 
     While this goal brings personal happiness, it can also benefit others and bring about another kind of happiness. In that, an abundant harvest can aid those who may be less fortunate or perhaps don't have a green thumb. If one chose to plant a garden strictly for the benefit of others, he could still snitch a tomato that was grown and achieve personal happiness in the process. However, if my garden only did well enough for me to get produce, I would still be happy, because that was my main goal. Everything else is just a bonus. 
     If the person's goal was to grow the garden, and sell the produce for the benefit of himself, he could use the money to buy something he wants and achieve happiness in a remote manner. Personally, I grow a garden because it gives me happiness. I love to set little tasks/ goals almost daily for my garden. I weed and prune and putter in it because it makes me happy. I achieve many forms of happiness when my garden starts to produce. First I can and freeze all I will need for me for the coming winter, then I give to my family , friends and neighbors so they can share the food and be happy. I also sell my produce to the local fruit and vegetable stand and give the profits from that to the local SPCA. That has been my personal goal and dream since I increased the size of my garden. Actually, it is the reason I did increase my garden size, that and the high cost of everything today.
    In conclusion, I think that when someone sets goals for himself, he still subconsciously wants to help others while achieving his goal. I know that I experience happiness while completing my goal of getting a good harvest from my garden. I will have food stored in my freezer and canned for the coming winter. That always comes first. My friend and I have a saying whenever we do something that makes us happy, "I like me." So, when I reach my goal of food in the freezer and canned, then I offer it up to others. Because of doing this, I also reap a secondary happiness by sharing my good fortune with my family and friends. Thirdly, when my neighbors and I have gotten all that we want, I sell the rest and the animal shelter then benefits. In my world, it's a win win win situation. 

