My name is Thomas. I am a normal fellow who would like to discuss the topic of happiness with you and the different beliefs and positions one may take. So many people believe to their core that certain stipulations must be met for one to achieve and live out a truly happy life but, what are those things? Are these check lists that result in either happiness or unhappiness objective or subjective? I would like to give my opinion along with the evidence I have seen throughout my life on this subject.

Happiness. A word we all use very often but may possibly have very different meanings depending on who you are. We all are on a constant search for happiness whether we realize it or not. Happiness within our jobs, our personal interests and goals, our relationships, our families, and happiness even when maybe things don't seem to be very happy. There are many that find happiness only when they are setting and acheiving new goals, completing tasks, finishing work. There are those that see the former stated as only something one must carry out to be able to afford to pursue what actually makes them happy. 

What I mean is, some people derive their happiness from the work that they do. While others only do the work so that they can make a living to pursue what actually makes them happy. Maybe that is working their job so that on the weekend they can fix up an old car, or take their children to an amusement park, or donate their hard earned money to help someone else live a little easier. So many people find happiness in so many different things that I truly believe happiness is as unique to the individual as the fingerprints on the tip of your finger. Now, there are certain things that may make a lot of us happy such as a full belly or a movie we get a laugh out of, but true happiness down to our cores may come in such a wide variety that I don't belive anyone could possibly say for sure where an objective happiness might come from.
An example is a brother of mine who prioritizes work because he truly enjoys his job. It is his passion and he loves being there, and completing his tasks. On the other hand, while I enjoy my job, it only provides me the financial stability to be happy. It allows me to pay my bills and feed myself and my wife as well as pursue hobbies outside of work that truly make me happy. I like my job, but my happiness is achieved by taking care of my wife, and being able to take part in my creative hobbies when I am not at my place of employment. 

Now some may say you cannot be happy with something such as money. I beg to differ. You can find countless people who choose to live off grid with essentially no modern form of currency and are happier than many people making a very healthy living. You constantly hear about the unhappiness of the rich and the famous. While I am sure that being financially stable and even well off can aid in an individuals pursuit of happiness, I do believe that it is as individualistic as it comes. 

At the end of the day, what makes you happy may not even come close to what makes me happy. As long as the path you choose to pursue happiness does not inhibit someone elses ability  to be happy, then I believe we all have every right to seek out that smile we can walk around with day in and day out. Everyone has a right to be happy, but nobody can tell you what you must do to be happy within your own life.
