       Images and impressions do often have too much of an effect on the decisions people make in their lives. There are many examples of this in mundane, every day situations, like the brand we choose at the grocery store, or our favorite actor, all of which are enabled even more so by the media so everyone can make more money. However, there are much more significant ways in which people are misled that affects everyone in the US, maybe even the entire world. I believe one of the most significant ways our nature of being swayed by imagery and impressions is manipulated and used against us is in the political world with the use of the media's monopoly on narrative, catchy but meaningless slogans, and shocking imagery.
      In the US there are two major political parties, the democrats and the republicans (or liberals and conservatives). Many would agree that most of the media and major news outlets hold a bias for one or the other. One of the major issues in our country is that the media has almost become an arm of these political parties as well as all the major corporations at the same time. They can put out advertisements for pharmacueticals under the guise of it being an informative article and don't have to disclose that they make tons of money from the company. They get to be in charge of political debates and don't have to disclose that they give the questions to one side ahead of time. On an even more subtle note, they get to decide what to tell us and how to present it in every situation. More Americans are starting to notice this with the popularity of the internet on the rise. 
       Many people would argue that all of this is merely free speech and that is a right in our country. I strongly support free speech, however that doesn't make the manipulation morally right, or even honest. Most people feel that, at least the news outlets, have a duty to tell the people the truth and let them make up their own opinions. While the same people have a hard time differentiating facts from opinions, especially with some of the manipulative tactics used by the media and political parties. One of the most manipulative tactics they use is deploying meaningless but nice-sounding slogans. A very memorable one of our time was "My body my choice", which doesn't mention the bodies of the fetuses that are necessarily thrown out as medical waste at the end of the procedure, but also went to the wayside when it came time to demand vaccine mandates and masking up even outdoors. These slogans give people a catchy little thing to cling on to when their real arguments tend to not hold up to scrutiny. Sometimes they are even more misleading or outright lies. But they work on so many people, especially those that are young and don't question them beyond the flowery support for whatever the current narrative is that the media wants to push.
      Likely one of the most shocking tactic that is used to manipulate people in politics is shocking imagery. Not too long ago, the world was hit with a pandemic of Covid-19. Every news station would show graphs and death counts on the screen constantly. Grotesque pictures of people in bags and filled hospitals were shown and scared everyone into supporting mandates that, weirdly, when the last administration was in charge, the current supporters were apprehensive about. A more recent and maybe specific example is the war in Ukraine. Images flooded our screens while emotions flooded our minds. Images of homes destroyed, images of patriotic Ukrainians fighting for their country, images of cowardly Russian troops that didn't want to fight. Then half of them were retracted in their respective news postings as FAKE NEWS. Like the Ukrainian model that was fighting for her country with an airsoft gun.
     People's minds have evolved to use imagery in subconscious decision making in order to ensure our survival. However, it has side effects that spill into decisions that should be more deliberate and conscious. It allows people to be heavily manipulated, especially when scientists can study more specific ways these things effects us in subconscious ways and then politicians, companies, and the media get to use that to intentionally manipulate us into doing whatever they want. If only schools were not in the manipulation ring as well, maybe they could teach students how to differentiate between facts and propaganda or opinions and mere reporting so that people were more free to make up their own minds on things.

