Who hasn't thought about what they would buy if they won the lottery? Would you buy a bigger house, nicer car or upgrade something you already have? I think the better question would be is this really necesssary. Most people agree that materialism is bad, but they continue to accumulate things and worships famous people who flaunt their wealth. Why are we constantly buying things thinking that they will buy us happiness?

Materialism is actually causing us more problems than bringing us the happiness we think it will accomplish. We are living in a time where our consumption is destroying the planet, yet we continue to buy in hopes of bringing us happiness. For example, we ignore the effects of this over consumption we have and continue to buy the latest cell phone on the market. Where do we think all of these items we replace go to? I think the smarter thing would be to learn to live with what we have. Is it really necessary for a family to live in a 2500 sq ft home? Do they really need that amount of space to be happy or would we be happier living in a smaller home where we spend more time together? Why are so many new homes being built when older home remain on the market to be sold? New cars being bought when there are perfectly good used ones to buy? Not to mention the impact that this has on our financial well being. Americans are struggling with debt. I blame a lot of this on people trying to keep up with their friends and neighbors. How would things be different if we waited to replace perfectly working things in our life? You may not have the newest gadget, but it would still be a functional product.

A lot of people would question why it is wrong for them to enjoy nice things. If they can afford it, what is the problem? And I agree that people should enjoy and buy nice things for themselves when they actually need them. But the problem lies with people who are buying things they don't really need and only wanting something because someone else has it or it's the newest model. Those people will be happy after their purchase, but that happiness will soon fade. The initial high of getting something new doesn't usually last when bought for the superficial reasons. We have a big problem of trying to keep up with other people or be unique with the newest product. The problem is that there is always someone else who can buy more or get it quicker. Wouldn't if be better to just use what we have and avoid the stress of going into debt or hurting the planet?

Life is more than material things. Many times those material things are going to bring you more grief than happiness. I think people need to learn what is really important in their lives. Many 
