Cooperation is key in all facets of life. In this essay, I will provide examples from a pro-cooperation side rather a pro-competitive view of life. 
Firstly, cooperation creates harmony within ourselves. Harmony fosters an agreeable environment and agreeable mindset. Internal harmony creates trust with the outside world, allowing you to easily cooperate with others rather than ignore their needs or distrust their opinions. 
Secondly, cooperation fulfills an evolutionary need beyond our control. It is subconscious, hidden deep within our brain's first evolutionary processes. This cooperation has helped us survive adversaries, defeat disease, and set societal expectations for other members in our tribes, in order to work together to accomplish common goals. If we had preferred competition, I don't think we would have made it to our current state as a population. 
Lastly, the United States of America would not exist as we know it. If we analyze the pilgrims for example, the first winter here was very harsh, and they knew nothing about surviving along the East Coast of our country. They would not have survived upon their arrival to North America had the Indians not intervened and taught them ways to grow crops, hunt and gather food, prepare for harsh and bitter winters with shelter and fire. 
In closing, competition is not a viable option nor does it meet any other physiological need unless you are male; then competition and winning certain mating partners over other males satisfies yet another evolutionary need to procreate with many different partners. 
We'll save that argument for another essay, but the main point of this essay is that if it had not been for cooperation, which breeds effort and vested interest in other parties; even when clear and present danger is at hand, and even in spite of the group with which you must cooperate is unknown and seems dangerous to you. I formed this argument because I believe humans are inherently good, and prefer handling others cooperatively rather than confrontationally. We are hard-wired to have evolutionary needs met that are beyond our concious control, and we feel a sense of peace when those are achieved through cooperational tactics. We also require a hunter and gather mentality to thrive and survive as a species. These things I have outlined above give great evidence, scientific and theoretical when persuading someone to become more cooperative rather than competitive. Competition is a very negative trait whereas cooperation is positive and facilitates positive dopamine and serotonin release in the brain. 
