What we have to ask ourselves when buying a product, is what we are buying an accurate depiction of a product, or it is just a illusion of our senses. It is very easy for a company to manufacteur a false image of what they are selling by using eye capturing colors and physically attractive pictures. When we buy this product are we really going for tangible good that we can use or are we getting tricked by an advertisement. 

All products attempt to catch our attention, in order to stand out to the consumer. One of the easiest ways they do this is by using eye pleasing colors with relatable characters such as cartoons. They use creativity to make us stop in the aisle or watch the television for intentionaly. Why do they do this? Because scientifically it has been proven that peoples attentions spans are very short, and they only have less than a second before someone makes a decision.

We see it in advertisements on TV. Some of them spend millions of dollars in production like a big time movie, in order to lure you in. You get the product at home, and its nothing like you anticipated. This is because they actually care more about your impression of seeing the product rather than what you get when you buy it. This is what we call deception marketing, or to some extent bait and switch. What you see on TV or in the supermarkets is completely working on making the best impression, but not on giving value to the consumer.  

When a company uses something such as a pet or a cartoon, they are trying to find the most relatable content to gear you in. In many times, for instance, a cat, has absolutely nothing to do with your purchase. But research has shown that if you have a fuzzy animal on the label than a customer will most likely take a glance at their product.

As a consumer, we can battle back against this marketing technique by thinking before we make the decision. The first impression that we receive should not be the number one reason that we buy a product. So by knowing that the company is attempting to practice this. We can use logic, reviews, and simple experience of buying other products. If we do all of this we can make sure to get the product we want and not be manipulated by the images and simple impressions that our brain gathers before we pick out what we are looking for. 
