The pursuit of happiness can be very relative. For some, happiness is found by focusing on themselves, their goals and their dreams. For others, happiness is specific, goal-oriented and externally focused. But, among those two kinds of people, who are the happiest and why? 

Focusing on one's own dreams and goals can be fulfilling. But, for a deep sense of long-term fulfillment, nothing is more rewarding than making others happy and improving the world. Happiness that comes from serving others is at the very heart of humanity. Consider the many life activities that are both satisfying and externally focused: raising children, helping needy animals, serving in the military and helping the less fortunate in society.  These are just a few examples of how focusing on the happiness of others can lead to personal fulfillment.

Throughout history, there are examples of people who have followed one path -- pursuing their dreams before deciding to focus on helping others later in life. Even some of the robber barons of the Industrial Age realized when they had accumulated enough. Andrew Carnegie used his fortune to build libraries and museums. Others left part or all of their fortunes to academic or cultural institutions. These are vivid examples of people who focused first on themselves but ultimately on others. 

Still, there is a case to be made -- albeit not as strong -- that true happiness starts with one's self. For some people, it is entirely possible that they will never be happy unless they are chaing their dreams. For them, fulfillment is about living their own life to the utmost and accomplishing those things that they have prioritized. That does not make them selfish or lesser than the people whose happiness is externally focused. It just means that they find fulfillment through a different path. We all only get one life to live and should leave this world with no regrets and no unfinished business.  

All told, most people are likely to be happier if they focus on the happiness of others. Teach a child to read. Spend time with an elderly person. Run for public office. Comfort the afflicted. Volunteer to help animals in need. Your life will be better -- and you will be the happier -- if you pursue this path. At the end of the day, if you can say, "I made the world a better place today" you will be more likely to be at ease and at peace than if you pursued happiness only for yourself. We exist in this world not to just take up space or pursue our own narcisstic adventures. 


