     The society we live in today can often be characterised as fake.  What we as people and concumers believe to be true about a person or a product is often just a ruse.  We are faced with many things in our everyday life that we have to determine to be true or false and the line is often very hard to determine.  These false and make believe things are making it hard for us as individuals to make decisions on people and products.  We dont know what to believe anymore.
     To many people today are trying to present themselves on social media in a certain light.  They want to stand out or become famous.  They often will hide their true selves and make people believe things that are not true.  They become a character online instead of being themselves.  You see this all over Instagram and TikTok.  People want to stand out so they become fake.  People use filters to change the way they actually look.  They make themselves look like that they feel society wants them to look like.  People are being catfished all the time.  The persona that they are presenting is often very different from their everyday life.  Pictures are cropped or changed to make it look better online.  I feel like this is becoming more of an issue all the time.  Then people see these fake people talking about certain products and they then feel like they need to go out and purchase these items.  Little do people know must most of the time these people on social media are being paid to say these things and don't even use the products they are talking about.
     People think that this is ok however I feel like deceiving people to believe something about yourself or a product is very wrong.  I know that people think its ok to become a character online and to represent yourself differently however I feel like this is setting up young people to fail.  They dont know what the truth is anymore. People need to understand they will be liked just for being themselves.  I feel like society as a whole needs to stop telling people they need to be perfect and look a certain way.  I feel like its time to make a change and just represent who we trully are.   I hope that some day our younger generation does not feel like they have to lie about who they are just to be liked.  I want to see people focus more on being kind rather than being popular and the most likes.  So the answer is yes, images and impressions have way to much effect on people.

