"Appearances can be deceptive" and "all that glitters is not gold"are the two famous sayings which come to my mind when I think of the all pervasive ad blitz we are subjected to day in and day out.  There is a special branch of engineering which teaching packaging techniques.

I have had personal experiences of buying online products just because my wife would want me to get  her what she sees in the tv ad and totally taken in by it.  It has happened time and again that the new products which perform so well on the tv, just refuse to work when we buy them and try them out.  Same goes with all that we see in ads asking for dates and partners.

A very rosy picture is often painted about the person which is no where near the truth.  You meet them only to learn that they were like that once upon a time and that is history now.

It is not only the products and people even politicians have resorted to this gimmick.  Some leaders from third world countries spend a fortune on looking good and spend very little time or energy on doing good.  

"Empty vessels make noise" is another saying which comes to my mind.  The science of which is the free surface which is causing it to slosh and make noise which does not happen on a vessel which is filled to the brim.   The analogy here is about bad products which have the loudest ad lines and most glittery packing.  We have to stay on guard and think twice before being deceived by the appearance of anything.

Of course there are very good products which are also packaged to look great, but as we have come to expect the opposite, they too get ignored.  

But as all good things come to an end, bad things also come to an end.  The deception of packaging mediocre products to look great is catching on with people.  People are no more getting fooled by this as they used to before.  We have to be alert to this trend of deception which keep appearing in our society in one form or other.

Images and impressions have had too much effect on people for a very long time but slowly and steadily people have caught up with the deception and now it is on the wane.
