Perception is reality. That is to say, perception becomes reality becomes of the overwhelming importance it plays in the minds of the general collective.  The many ways reality can be manipulated have caused real facts to become obscured and a new importance to be placed on what kind of reality we can instead create. 


We see this in our daily lives when we make careful decisions about how to present ourselves. We make small but important decisions each and every day to carefully portray the exact image we want to. This may or may not be carefully thought out every time we choose to do or say something, but it becomes second nature in order to control the perception we want to project.  This is never more present than in the social media age and deafening access to information, and our ability to craft an image through posting exactly what we want, when we want, and how we want.  

Some may say this isn't accurate or try to claim that reality is what really matters and will shine through. But there are many easy examples to point to that prove reality can't come to the rescue. "Cancel culture" is probably the epitome of this phenomenon. Not only is perception reality, and a carefully controlled one, but often times this perception can be manipulated by others or be the resut of an unfortunate mistake or misunderstanding - but it doesn't matter. Once that perception is out there, it can be impossible to correct. A poorly timed joke and someone could be labelled a racist, sexist, etc for life - and careers and even lives can be ruined. Once the general collective has decided what "reality" is, based on perception, that is the final say. We often see the reverse, when celebrities or politicians are idolized or glorified who have committed awful crimes or are real sexists or racists. But the facts don't have the impact they should, and instead of being punished these people are praised based on other, often meaningless criteria-  the matter has been adjudicated in the court of public opinion. 

While it would seem fair that decisions and judgments should be made based on facts and reality, we live in a society that can be influenced by many outside factors. These factors include many different ways to obscure the facts and create an alternate reality or perception that becomes the new reality.  With the 24-hour news cycle, social media, and instant access to information all of the time, there is much more emphasis on the creation of this often-false reality. This has, unfortunately, paved the way for judgements, good and bad, to be based on perception rather than reality.


