The question posed is - Are people more likely to be happy when they focus on themselves and their own goals or will they be only happy if they focus on others and their concerns? Does happiness come from the self and for selfish reasons or do we need to be in service to others to gain happiness? This is the question we will explore in this brief essay.

In my personal thoughts and opinions, I feel that one can only truly be happy if they are focused on the self first. I say this because I feel that in order to have even the slightest ability to make another person happy, you have to have reached some level of happiness for yourself first. Humans by nature are selfish creatures - we seek out pleasure and rewards for ourselves first. Altruism can only come from a person, without an attached level of selfishness, when a person is fulfilled within themselves. 

For example, say I try to assist another person and help them be happy with their lives at the sacrifice of my own happiness - in the end, all I have done is delay or stop my own goals for someone to achieve theirs. When that happens, because humans are designed to be self interested, people tend to despise the very person they are trying to help when it comes at the expense of their own happiness. Its unfortunately the truth. Giving of yourself can only lead to negative consequences if you do not take care of your own needs and at a higher level than the person you are helping. 

However, that being said, there are people that claim helping people is their own happiness and that selflessness is the key to a good life. I can think of people like Mother Theresa or a host of others but my question to them would be - are you truly happy or has your good works for others taken so much of a priority that you have lost the ability to be selfish and in some ways, human? Human nature is that man is greedy, selfish and self interested - how do you put aside your humanity in these cases? How can a person truly be selfless and help others obtain happiness? For the most part, people, being human, cannot do this. I think its nearly impossible. 

If people were not born with the innate trait of being self interested first, then it would be possible to have the ability to truly want and hope for the happiness of another. Even when one tries to help another, its usually for reasons that will affect the person doing the helping the most. There are no deeds done that do not have a selfish side to them. I cannot think of anything that I can do for someone else that would make me happy. Perhaps, I am an extreme example but I feel that helping others only makes them dependent and that is not a way to gain any form of happiness. It only leads to negative feelings and distrust of others. 

Therefore, its my theory that people are singularly focused on themselves, even when trying to do for others, because its the nature of man to take care of one's self first. Until that state of self gain and happiness is achieved, for anyone, then the human cannot possibly have the interest of another at heart in a real and altruistic way. Happiness is more likely, and probably only, to be achieved  by working towards the goals and dreams that will make you happy, fulfulling your own needs- it will not come from someone else's happiness. 
