How does one acheive happiness? Is it through the internal mechanism of identifying one's dreams and desires and working toward obtaining those, or is it through the more selfless and external act of being observant of those around you and working toward ensuring their happiness?

I would argue that true happiness is found through both. What is the purpose of accomplishing personal goals if you cannot share those accomplishments with otheres? For, example maybe someone desires wealth and stability through having a high paying job in hopes of buying a home and settling down with a significant other and rasing a family. In this example, I would say that one can derive happiness from their accomplishes and through the benefits that come with being well paid and having the means to support themselves and do the things that they enjoy, whether that's traveling, hobbies or other things that fulfill their desires. But to me it seems like it would all be hollow withought having close friends or a significant other to share them with. Tell me, how often have you traveled alone? How often do your hobbies involve others, such as playing in a band or participating in sports? It is through the sharing of our personal success that the acheivement of personal goals is the most fruitful. The building of community. And of course, there is the ultimate partnership, the act of living with someone romantically, whether it's wthin the bonds of marriage or  as a domestic partner. What about children? Is not love of someone else and the desire to make them happy a way to happiness yourself. To me happiness is about both respecting others and yourself.

Some may argue that one only finds true happiness through the realization of their dreams. They believe that being self sufficient and being able to fulfill your own needs is the most important thing in life. I disagree with this. Ask yourself? Have you fulfilled every dream you've ever had. Have you're dreams ever been influence by others around you. Those individuals that are import to you, do you not bask in the glow of their happiness as well as your own?

Others argue that one can find happiness by focusing on the hapiness of others and having a love of humanity. I believe these are important qualities, but they in themselves do not provide personal happiness. Think about the individual that sacrifices their own goals for the happiness of someone else. Do they not feel some resentment. are they going to be happy solely based on the happiness of the other person? I beleive it is only through an understanding of what makes you happy in regard to your goals balanced with the awareness of other peoples' happiness that one can truly be happy.

Happiness is a complicated dance between you and everyone you know. Personal goals build the foundation, but the sharing and sense of community that can be built using theat foundation are equally as important to experiencing the ultimate happiness.Happiness can be found both alone and together. Go and be happy.

  
