        It is impossible to pin down the true source of human ingenuity and achievement. Nonetheless, there is a general consensus that there are two major factors that drive people to succeed: competition and cooperation. The former weaponizes self-interest to encourage innovation, while the latter takes a more collective approach by combining the strength of individual human minds. Whether one supersedes the other is a never-ending matter of debate. With regards to overall societal progress, however, it is safe to say that cooperation is generally much more well-suited to the progress of man than competition. 
        Cooperation naturally involves the input of many individuals, each of which have their own unique thought process that contributes the mass flow of ideas. This sort of thing is useful for solving problems because it ensures that all potential outcomes to a particular scenario are evaluated, a task that is almost impossible for an individual to do on their own. Furthermore, it encourages thoughtfulness and a more 'social' state of thinking, which makes any future attempts at solving problems or innovating of mutual benefit to all involved, which incentivizes people to think about them more. Key to moving forward as a species is the ability to draw from a massive pool of knowledge, which can only be done if people work together and willingly provide their skills and knowledge to others. 
          Some might say that competition is more suited to innovation because humans are inherently self-intereted in the sense that they want to be ahead of others. At the individual level, encouraging the spirit of competition can be the best method of promoting personal growth. But personal growth does not send rockets to the moon or build pyramids. It is cooperation that allows people to take on such massive projects that move humanity forward. No one person can draw up the plans, do the math, stack the bricks, or weld the metal. It is simply too much for one person, or even a small group of individuals. It requires the consent, work, and encouragement of populations en masse to ensure the success of these projects. 
        When you want to change the world, you need the world to do so. Competition is not enough to keep at bay the problems that humans face. Cooperation is our best shot at survival, both interpersonally and globally. 
