Appearances have a huge effect on people. We are in a society where even regular normal people post the best parts of themselves online. It creates a need to be different, better, amazing or just tell all about ourselves. A normal person might wake up in the morning and pick up their phone. The first thing they might look at is facebook or twitter. We are bombarded with beautiful images of their life. An example that I woke up to the realization of is homesteading.

I dreamed of having beautiful gardens as well as all the animals imaginable. I thought it must be done as quickly as all the people I see online doing it. I needed to have every animal they have. I watch videos with all the gardeners and homesteaders and their wonderful gardens. Theoretically I knew that it must take them years and lots of money to do some of the things they do, building on it in time. But knowing this didn't mean that I was prepared for the reality. When I got myself chickens, I didn't know that they would eat every plant that I lovingly planted or roost in every place possible or go broody way more often than expected. 

I now have 60 chickens, and no garden. I have a front poorch that I have to fence in to stop them from going up on it and pooping every single day. My family leaves the responisibility to me to close the screen door despite them using it every day. I can't keep up with every time they go outside or inside and they track in all the poop. While I don't think this will stop me from having chickens, I do believe that the warnings should have been more prominant in the videos and posts that I had read. The poop of my chickens and the sheer amount of them put me in a two year depression. I have a small child and couldn't butcher the chickens because I was caring for him, and my husband just refuses to do it even though he says he will help. For two years, I was extremely depressed because the life I wanted and the life I was living were not one and the same. I have since accepted that the mess I made must be cleaned up some how and moving foward, I'll have to have chickens in a different way that protects our porch and our gardens. 

Onto another topic that people tend to exaggerate is being a great parent. It's all over social media how these wonderful mom's and dad's never get upset with their children. How they do all these fun activities and create lots of crafts or teach their children things. People who have a lot of trauma may have children before they are ready, but that does not mean they want to pass their trauma down. It can be difficult as a person with an extremely abusive/neglectful childhood to always stay happy. Seeing mom's in beautiful sun dresses with full faces of make up, homeschooling their brood is disheartening when they don't reveal the truth of what it is like. No matter what child, there will always be some times when the mother or father is overwhelmed and just needs a break. Or maybe they yelled or didn't say the exact proper thing. The internet is full of judgement for these things by people who do not even have children, or if they do have children, they may be dishonest about how nice or kind they always are.  It's much easier for a parent who had loving parents to know how to BE a loving parent on their own. 

My husband who is the kindest lover and father in the world, only wants what is best for his family. His idea of what's best came from his step father who worked 80 hours a  week or more. He didn't even know his step father was his step father. His mother even altered his birth cirtificate. It wasn't until he was 34, and his daughter was born, that he knew his real dad existed. When his biobrother informed him of all of it, his mother denied it and got angry. I see a man who goes to work to provide for his family but that is all he really knows how to do. His daughter has ODD, and it is up to me to care for her, and I was extremely neglected myself as a small child, as well as physically and sexually abused. I was in for an extremely rude awakening when I realized that his daughter needed more care than I was prepared for. But the internet is full of judgement and there often isn't any real help. I'm happy to say that she is doing much better now but it was a lot of trial and error without the help of real parents who went through it as well. THey are all too afraid to speak up for fear of being ripped apart, while the appearance is that America is full of wonderful parents who never mess up.


In conclusion, moving forward, it is important for people to stop and think of the impact their influence may have before they decide to post the best and only the best of their lives.  
