happiness in itself is our focus here, to be happy you have to feel loved. to feel loved you must find things about yourself to love, depending on your demeanor love and happiness go hand in hand, literally. for me i love my wife to the ends of the earth my goal is helping her better her life and to be the happiest and safest she could possibly feel. hapiness to me is the goal, love is the journey, and my wife is the beignning and the end of my story, she calls me a "beautiful nightmare" and i call her "my angel." we are complete opposites but still make eacchother happy by loving the other and taking care of one another. 
in my own way without hapinees there is no love and withoout love there is no hapiness, so in this context people are FAR more likely to be happy when focusing on a goal. especially if that goal is love and a partner to spend that happiness, time, and attention on. so before i go i will leave you with this, if you find yourself in need of happiness or love. look firsst inside yourself so you can help someone else find the same within you. 

since i have another 20 minutes for this i will write an arguement to others, love is blind, hapiness is a fallacy and a soulmate is just a way to manipulate peoples emotions. do not use your focus of your goals to interupt someone elses journey. in this life there is nothing that comes free including hapiness, the old saying money doesnt buy happiness is true to an extent the money itself does not bring happiness the ability to live a good carefree life is where your focus driven mind goes. do not lose your focus on your goals for anything regardless of hapiness, love, or even your soulmate.

my goals have always led me to happiness, i think if more people thought like me and realizzed that without someone to make happy how can you truly be happy yourself. thank you for reading this essay, i hope that some of the things ive mentioned (ie; happiness in love, love in happiness, focusing your love into someone to creat happiness for the both of you) 

my name is hebrew means japeths 4th son, in norwegian i am (of the devil) my goals far exceed my ability for hapinees regardless of what ive said here. without my goals and my wife i would have no reason to exist at all.   

so in final closings here i wish to say this. happiness is the bottom of a bottle and the end of a hot pistol, you dont want to see either but you have to face it one way or the other. will you let your goals control you or will you control your goals..
