Today's modern world has become focused on competitions. Many strive to compete against each other and let their ego affect the way they pursue one another. Competitions can cause much angst among each other and lead to negative thoughts and emotions. While many things can be done alone, ultimately, cooperation and teamwork achieve the greatest of successes. Cooperation promotes more brains to utilize thoughts and better ideas, increased socialization and lifelong skills, and still promotes competitve fun.

Cooperation promotes more brains to utilize thoughts and better ideas. Even geniuses do not know everything. It helps to have other people to bounce around ideas among each other. Someone might think of a great idea, and someone else can take that idea and improve on it. Someone else may find themselves stumped. Hearing others' ideas can help get the mind flowing to create even better plans to end in success.

Also, cooperation increases socialization skills. Flying solo competitively can induce some negative emotions and behaviors. Working together can pull people out of their introverted shells and force them to communicate. Being able to communicate with others and aid each other teaches skills that can be useful long term such as leadership, being a team player, quick thinking, problem solving, and so many more. Being forced to exit a person's comfort shell is a scary thing, but once they leave their shell, many find themselves to be having fun and actually enjoying being part of a team. It feels accomplished.

Competitions can be fun, but they can be more fun competing in groups. Having people to work together with to compete against other teams feels more rewarding and, sometimes, even exhilerating. Team members can work together to keep each others' negative emotions away, instead, relying more on positive emotions. Negative emotions tend to lead toward failure; however, positive emotions have a greater chance of leading to success.

In conclusion, competitions can be very stressful, but having a group to cooperate with can make them more enjoyable. Cooperation promotes more brain power to utilize thoughts and ideas off each other, increased socialization and lifelong skills, and still ends in an enjoyable time. It helps to bounce ideas off each other, promote useful skills for life, and competitive fun.
