     Most people agree that a bit of healthy competition can help individuals achieve success, by fostering innovation and motivating us to accomplish greater achievements than normal. However, most people also strive to avoid failure (no matter how small), and competition can impede success by driving otherwise capable individuals away from participating at all. Instead, I argue that cooperation can in many cases help us to achieve even greater success, noting that cooperation also occurs frequently in nature even among individuals of different species.
     We often believe, as Darwin proposed, that competition (or "survival of fittest") is an essential part of the natural world. While it is true that competition has driven much of evolution and the survival of the species that populate the world today, Darwin overlooked the fact that many organisms cooperate with one another to improve their own fitness/ensure their joint survival rather than improve the situation of the individual. For example, many bird species are known to engage in cooperative child-rearing, where different adults (i.e. not the parents) cooperatively raise young birds thus ensuring the growth/health of the entire flock. Some male birds engage in cooperative dance performances, helping the "lead" male to attract a mate: Although the other males do not benefit directly, they gain experience performing these same mating dances which can help them to find a mate as they mature. Even birds of different species are known to cooperate: For example, Black Vultures and Crested Caracaras frequently participate in mixed flocks in the wild. Both species feed on carrion, but only Black Vultures have a highly-developed sense of smell that allows them to locate carrion from afar. On the other hand, Black Vultures are unable to vocalize/communicate: Crested Caracaras fill this gap in the abilities of the Black Vultures by warning them of nearby predators, and so the Black Vultures tolerate their presence. Thus, the survival of both species is jointly improved.
     Likewise, human beings benefit from cooperation. Human beings frequently work together to rear one another's children, allowing other members of the same species the requisite time to work, play, and rest. Human beings who share the work of a major project can accomplish more in the same amount of time than can a single individual working alone. Likewise - and like the Black Vultures and Crested Caracaras - human beings differ in their skills, knowledge, and abilities, and they facilitate such work and achieve greater success cooperatively by dividing such tasks according to their skilles/expertise (i.e. preventing any given individual from having to master other skills that their peers can offer). In short, cooperation can allow us to achieve greater success together.
