I think that, like it is said in the prompt that materialism IS important in modern day society but I also think that we place too much value on "things" and money and valuables that dont do anything except up our social status in life like a car that is beyond your means or a house that is too big that you dont need. BUT on the flop side of that I feel that materialism and to a certain degree capitalism drive innovation and people develop new medicines and things that are important in life obviously to help others but they have a JOB to do it and they are also motivated by money which helps buy the things that make them feel important and comfortable and fuels materialism.

The issue is when people live beyond their means, I remember a story I heard recently about someone who went into someones else's home on a welfare check and the children in the home had no food and the water was shut off and the electricity was barely on and past due, lo and behold they had a BRAND NEW 55 inch television with the box right next to it. They valued materialistic things over their own well being which is too much. On that note, I am relatively poor, I have a job but its not a great one and I get social services from the state and the last time that I went to redo my food stamps and my healthcare there was a woman there with her literally 6 kids, and a brand new iphone and a BRAND NEW denali SUV complaining to the woman at the social services place about "who is going to take care of my kids" with a 1k+ iphone in her hand, she cares more about materialistic things than basic food and healthcare for her children, the correct thing to do would be prioritize instead of begging the state to take care of you when you have the means to do it instead you value your objects over your quality of life for your children and yourself.


So I think we do place too much emphasis on "keeping up with the jones" in a lot of things and that is hindering our society but like I said it also does a lot of good as well, the drive to obtain wealth has given up new innovations and great things. Not everyone is benevolent and would do things like that for free such as working on new cancer meds or whatever, you value materialistic things and alot of time it can fuel innovation and an increase to EVERYONES quality of life. I think there is an argument for both sides, and I see both points of view.

Here is the problem though, we live in a society(jk) that values money over any and everything. Your social status, your family and personal life, even in music such as rap, all it talks about is your self worth is directly equated to how much money you make or have and all the materialistic things that you own. I wish I could live without money and I wish it wasnt an issue and such an important thing but that is basically what our culture revolves around.

I just got a notification that I turned away from this page and that it will lower my bonus, my pandora randomly started playing and I had to turn it off when I did that my computer froze hence the longer time lapse, so I can focus on this please do not dock my pay for this, this is my supplemental income and the only way I am able to afford my bills every month. I am desperate for Mturk and as pathetic as it sounds $11 goes a very long way when youre hungry. 
