How do you create lasting success? First, define what would be lasting success. Lasting success would mean that after completion of tasks the resulting benefit of the work continues even if the creators are no longer there to continue it.  Looking at history this type of success seems to occur primarily through cooperation.  It does not happen through individual achievement alone.  Thinking of great feats in history it is easy to find how cooperation allowed for great things to be done that stand apart from regular occurrences.  

Let us look at Ghandi in India.  Ghandi was without question a great and noble leader.  He solidified a movment that lead to the creation of a new nation that was able to throw off the shackles of colonialism.  He however, did not do this alone in point of fact.  He led  millions of people who shared a vision to have a free India and worked cooperatively to achieve this goal.  Martan Luther King also followed a similar path. He again was a great and noble leader however, he also worked cooperatively with millions of others to achieve a more just society for all.  

Switching slightly from historical social leaders look at some more recent examples of high achievement, Apple one of the most valuable private companies on the planet.  Often much of the credit has gone to one of the original founders Steve Jobs however,  Apple was much more than Steve Jobs.  While he was part of the beginning and endeavored to instill a sense of perfection for the company and products, it was the work of others that he may have over seen that the company was built.  There were others that were involved with designing the first iPhone where yes Steve Jobs had input buta team created much of the concept and wrote the code.  Especially in modern times, it will be nearly impossible for one person to write history without others.

What about extraordinary indiviudals such as Alexander the Great?  Yes much credit is given to Alexander of Macedonia for his short lived empire and his conquests that fell apart shortly after his death but was it Alexander riding out to battle alone to face the many foes that he conqured?  No of course not, he rode with a large host of well trained and well armed soldiers that fought for him (and presumably glory and riches) to create Alexandar's empire.  

Ok so what about great athletic achievements?  Let us look at Tiger Woods and his time as the world number one in golf.  Golf is an individual sport surly Tiger Woods deserves sole credit for all his achievements.  But did he not have a father that put a club in his hands at a very tender age and encourge him to pursue golf with a fury of passion. Tiger Woods also had many different teachers and coaches.  Tiger Woods might have had a very different career with a different father or coaches. The early work of Tiger working cooperatively with his father and coaches gave him the drive and taught him the skills that fostered his talent. That is something to consider a world where Tiger Woods father and or coaches were different would the world have seen a different Tiger Woods maybe one that would be unknown to the world?

What about some more practical examples.  Looking at business today companies especially those that are looking to solve problems creatively are looking for ways to gaine diversity to get folks that think differently to solve problems collaboratively.  Research has shown that industries once dominated by white men now do better when there are women and people of color on the team as they bring new different perspectives that can help improve the solutions that the business is attempting to solve.

The primary point for consideration will be that cooperation is vital to lasting success and remembering that there always must have been someone else even if in the background that helped to drive that success.  Whether this is winning major golf tournaments, creating a new nation, improving civil rights or forging an empire.  No one person can achieve this type of significant achievement along.
