Happiness is subjective. Does it make me happy to do something I know will make someone else happy? Yes. Does it make them happy that I took part in the act because I wanted them to be happy? Maybe. How about if they know I only did it because I wanted to be happy by making them happy? That's where it gets confusing. 

If my only motivation for doing something nice is to make me happy, doesn't it lose some of its meaning? I want the people around me to be happy, but I'm not sure how to be happy myself. Honestly, I'm not really sure what it feels like to really be happy because I've faked it for so long or tied my happiness to other people's mood. 

If a husband and wife are both hungry and neither had time to cook dinner a conversation will usually start about what they want to order. If the wife absolutely doesn't want pizza but the husband says "I really want pizza, I've been craving it all day" should the wife stand up and put herself first? I'm not that person, I'll agree to the pizza and be relieved that my husband is happy. 

But, relief isn't happiness, it's settling and masking your true feelings. And this is where communication comes to play an important part in someone's happiness and self worth. After years of agreeing to the other persons whims and you suddenly stand up for yourself to see what really makes you happy... well, things can get testy. 

Going back to the pizza argument, how will the husband feel when he finds out that the wife agreed to things she didn't want during half their marriage, does it just apply to food or to everything? Home, furniture, landscaping, clothing, tv shows and movies? It then encompasses their whole marriage. This could be too much pressure, too much guilt, too much anger about years of lying about your happiness and the marriage may not be able to withstand it. 

Find something that makes you happy. ONE thing! It may be small, it may be a sandwich, book or song. It may be changing an entire wardrobe and style because you always wanted to dress in a certain style of clothing. It could be finally admitting that you hate the furniture in the house, both comfort wise and the aesthetic. Or it could be something major, that you aren't happy because you've become the doormat everyone walks over. No matter what it is that makes you happy, be it something tangible or admitting something to yourself, speak up about it. Don't keep it to yourself. If you don't want pizza, say something, be assertive. Our lives are too short to continue to be taken advantage of. And if the people in your life don't like you now that you're finally standing up for yourself, the problem is with them and not you. 

Don't tie your happiness to someone else's. Make it your own. Be happy!


