People are more likely to be happy when they focus on the happiness of others or bettering humanity rather than focusing on pursuing their dreams and personal goals. This is shown in various studies that demonstrate that helping others can increase happiness even in the face of adversity. Although goal focus and achieving goals can both make you feel happy in the short term, lifetime happiness depends on an outward orientation toward helping or improving the lives of others. 

Researchers have shown in recent studies that volunteering and helping others increases happiness. Along with practicing gratitude, helping others is one of the most important ways to improve your happiness. Therefore, focusing on your own goals, while satisfying in the short term, is not likely to improve overall happiness. The recently departed Frederick Buechner famously said (and I paraphrase) that your calling is where your joy and the world's deep hunger meet. We can find joy in many activities, including reaching personal goals. But if we are not working on things the world needs that satisfaction can be fleeting and fragile. 

Some might say that personal goals and dreams are the only thing you can control and that you should work toward those to make you happy. They feel positive emotions when achieving a personal goal or saving money towards a lifelong dream. Making those goals or dreams a reality can be truly satisfying. However, it seems from the research that even if there is some truth in that approach, combining goal focus with helping others is a more sure path to happiness. 

To have the best chance of happiness, people should examine how they might do both. If someone is a lawyer and love what they do, donating some of their time to others will make them happier. If they are a doctor and love helping patients, some time given to those who can't afford regular medical care can increase their happiness. If they are a researcher and love crunching data, maybe they can solve a tricky problem facing the world like disease or urban planning to make people's lives better. 

In conclusion, while personal goals and dreams are important, the path to happiness lies in helping others or humanity in general. Research has shown this to be the case. Even if you have strong personal goals, the most important thing for living a happy life is to find ways to help others while doing those things you love. 
