We all search for happiness in this life, isn't that right? Some people believe they will find happiness with ultimate fame, some believe they will find happiness with power and money, and still others  believe happiness can only be found by looking to the interests of others. It is my belief that happiness (and peace) will never be found if one only focuses on themselves in life, and that ultimate happiness and peace actually come from looking to the well being of others. Serving others in love is the key to a life of true happiness. 

My main reason for believing that serving others is the true key to happiness is based on the words of Christ Jesus, found in the Holy Bible. Jesus says in the Gospel of John that "no one has greater love than this, to lay down one's life for one's friends." Jesus says this  in the Bible, and he even went so far as to lay down his own life for the sins of the world. 

Another reason that I believe we can be happier by focusing on others is from what I've observed in cultures around the world. As a Sociology major in college, I had the opportunity to research other cultures and found that less modern societies tended to be more content than modern societies. These same societies, more developing and agricultural, were much more communal and focused on the needs of everyone. Those who looked out only for themselves would be chastised or shamed. 

Lastly, I know that focusing on others' happiness is key to my own happiness because of my own experience. The seasons in my life where I have searched for what I wanted without regard for others, I found myself acting selfishly, more pridefully, struggling with relationships, and struggling with depression and anxiety. My life isn't perfect now, but I am certainly more happy than I have ever been. I am a mother and wife and friend, and while relationships are difficult, they are more fulfilling than I ever was living for myself alone. I believe God created us to work and serve others, and when we aren't doing this, we yearn for something more. 

I know there are many people that would disagree with me and would say that happiness is found in following your own heart, and that living your own truth is the way. However, I would say that the data doesn't support this. There are multiple research studies now on how sad and depressed people are when they isolate, when they don't have community, when they serve their own interests, etc...

So, can happiness be found while focusing on personal goals in life? Yes, it can. But, will that happiness last? I would say no. I would say that to be happy in life, to have peace, there is no other way than to "die" to yourself and serve the needs of others. If you are seeking happiness, don't look inside yourself. Look outward.
