                                         Now most of the peoples are gave most important to the modern society . this generation is slightly foget their materialism life. it will some time leats to the bad sitution. modern society will make more insufficient sitution. in future generation the people will get forget their cultures. if we gave more important to the modern soiety it will affect most economic problem. 




                                          Modern society is good for the people. but we want to use their in some limit  if we cross our limit in our modern society it will surly  affect the peoples life. if people gave more important to the modern society they will want to earn money for their modern life. it will affect the people happiness.    the fanily will loss the happiness and the will also fight for their modern society.  future generation will surly our ancian culture and they did'nt no how their past generation live their life.
             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                              
                              Modern society will bring more changes in the medical health  
 problems, food, economic, etc,.. people  can't no what is the medicine for  the health problems in the future genartions. so people want to give most important to the materialism. so people want to no the side effect of the modern society.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
