Media is all around us in popup ads, commercials, websites, magazines and wherever else people can put images and impressions that help to shape our judgement of a given product.  After all, companies are looking to promote their products in whatever way possible in an effort to stay in business and make a profit.  While these advertising efforts can provide a facade which promotes increased interest in a product, it's still up to the consumer to do their due diligence in choosing whatever product or service is in question.

The whole point of advertising is to create a demand for a product, so it's to be expected that there may be some hyperbole or dramatic images and wording used for effect.  There is, however, also the possibility that one person's view on a given product or service is extremely different from the next.  It would be difficult to say that images and impressions have too much of an effect on a person as we wouldn't be able to completely rule out other external factors that would influence a person's opinion or view on any given thing (People talking about a product, or online reviews, etc.).  Additionally, if businesses sees their product in a certain way, then to them their way of using images and impressions is suitable and reflective of their true beliefs.  Others might find this situation deceptive and an effort to make a product appear something which it is not.  However, this could just be due to the extreme differences in a person's perception of what they see and experience as mentioned previously.  One person's trash is another person's treasure.  So, in my opinion, it would be impossible to say if images or impressions have too much of an effect due to differences in understanding and taste, as well as other external factors that would be overwhelmingly difficult to factor in.  Others might say that this use of images and impressions is deceptive and paints a rainbow during a thunderstorm, but the onus falls on the consumer to due their due diligence and properly research and evaluate anything they see that seems overly attractive.  Without advertising, a product or service would have minimal exposure, so the effect it has on people is positive regardless (Having some people use a product that truly helps is better than none).  Some might waste time, money, property, but gain a valuable lesson in return.  We can't be coddled when we should be careful and thorough.

While images and impressions in advertising can be flamboyant, overly descriptive, and somewhat deceptive, it generally matches what people like to see and have these days.  We're not the same culture we were 40 years ago, and more people are feeling comfortable showing their true selves and living their best lives.  It might truly be a matter of one's personal taste and opinion over another.  I do agree that advertising can paint a false picture, but it's always our responsibility to properly research, evaluate, and decide whether something is accurate or not.  We can help others, but we shouldn't enable people to not think for themselves.  Advertising has always been known to be flashy, catchy, gimmicky, and somewhat deceptive, it's no different now than it has ever been.  We need advertising to catch people's attention as many are usually tied up in electronics, email, games, etc.  It's just a different world now, so different tactics need to be used to stand out in the crowd.  I do, however, have my limits as to what's acceptable, so anything distasteful or extreme would not be included in my position and should definitely never be used.
