          Materialism has two different meanings these days, and the differing meanings are linked in surprising ways. The definition we all think about first is the materialism that is roundly criticized every Christmas season. You know the slogans: Jesus is the reason for the season, or The true meaning of Christmas is love. The point everyone is trying to make is this - the focus of Christmas, and of our lives, should be on relationships, on love, on selflessness, and on giving richly to others.  
          The other meaning of materialism widely circulating today is a scientific one. Materialsim in this sense is the notion that the only things that exist in the universe are time, space, and matter, or material. Materialism means that what you see is all there is. There is no God and human beings do not have souls according to scientific materialism. Nothing supernatural exists, only the natural is real. 
          A growing number of Americans have accepted both of these truth claims, without realizing how contradictory they are. Which definition of materialism has better support for its philosophical scaffolding? Let's take a look.
          We intuitively sense the truth of the morality that lies behind believing that good acts such as loving and giving. These values are objective. The truth of the superiority of love and goodness does not lie withing the human mind, but outside of humans entirely. It is a standard we perceive, not create. But a standard must have a standard giver. Without God, objective moral values and duties do not exist. But we all know deep in our being that objective moral values and duties DO exist. The best reason for moral values and duties is God.
          What about the idea of scientific materialism? Is matter all there is? A lot of philosophers and scientists think so. They think that love and goodness are just the products of evolutionary processes. It just happens that love and goodness are good for the survival of human beings, and so we came to believe in their superiority. But science has a huge problem when it makes that claim. The universe, and all the stuff its made of, had a beginning. Before that, there was no matter. No stuff. Philosophy, science, and reason all tell us that something cannot arise from nothing. That includes our universe. The origin of the universe must be something outside of it. Nothing can create its own self. The origin of the universe must be immaterial, spaceless, timeless, and incredibly powerful. Something like God.
          So, neither materialism has good reasons to support it. The values of goodness, love, and selfless giving really are superior, because there is a God who says so. And matter is not all there is, it had to come from something beyond it, something supernatural. Materialism turns out not to be something healthy for humanity, whether it is the Christmas variety or the scientific variety.
