Images and impressions do have a huge effect on people. They are able to see things for what media wants them to feel. They are not able to make their own decisions on what they would like to buy or think. Images in stores provide for marking to different age groups to purchase their products. Also on televisoin and ads for videos on social media there is images and impressions imposed on the user everyday. Using celeberties or other trustworthy people is another way that the media tries to impose their impression on the public. Some of these are ways that work in favor for the consumer, but often works against the consumer. This is why there is entire degrees in marketing just for this purpose. 

The first way that images are used to market and form impressions are in the grocery stores. Children's cereal is branded to look colorful and bright. There are fun characters that they may see on them. This makes the children ask their parent for the cereal or other item just because of the character on the packaging. It may not be as good as the other box right next to it. It may not be as healthy either, but it has the character that the kid would like. These products usually cost more for the parent to buy as well. They are going to spend more money on a product that their kid might not even eat or drink based on what the character is on the label. 

Comericals fall in line with the same idea. They are geared towards the age group that is watching the program. If you are watching something on Nick Jr. you are going to get ads that are more geared towards a younger audience with toys and games. Whereas if you are watching something on Hulu that is a more adult show, you may be getting ads for a scary movie or another adult program to watch. THey are finding ways to market to you when you are enjoying something for yourself. 

Another way that marketing and promotions form an impression on you is in your socail media. It has been shown that some social medias take your search history and possibly your voice history and use it to give you addtional videos and fun things to watch or ads to purchace from. There is times when your feed could be clogged up with sandles just because you went to a shoe store in the middle of summer and checked in for the coupon. Then all of your feed is sandles for the next week. This is a way to change your opinion on things that you may or may not need to purchase in your life. This goes for your videos that may pop up on your screens to watch as well. If you wanted to watch a funny video yoru friend sent you, you might continue to get those types of videos on your feed for a week or so even if you do not keep watching them. 

All in all, people are given impressions everyday of things that they should or should not watch , buy, or believe based on who is selling or promoting that product. Celebreties have started to control the market with their influencing and making some others feel bad about the choices that they make to have their families do, belive, eat, or use. The promoter my not be correct in their marketing, they are just doing what they are told to say or post. Most times they have not even tried the product themselves. This was obvious during the pandemic when certin people would be promoting their viewpoint on masking or vacinations with little to no research done by themselves. Often times they were just saying what they were told to say--whether they beleived it or not. 

This all proves that images and impressions have a huge effect on people in the general public. Wheather we like it or not they will always be around and marketing to different audicences for better or for worse. The public needs to be able to vet the informatoin coming in and find out what matters most to them and what they should or should not beleive. They need to form an opinion of their own and research before the buy, do, and work on whatever they can.
