                      In todays world I feel that people tend to achieve more success by competition. Competition is what drives people to achieve new goals. To reach for higher, harder to obtain goals. If people don't try to compete to do something better or first, they can lack motivation to complete the task. If not lack of motivation to complete the task it will definitely limit the want or need to take risks and try to do things in ways that are new or never tried before. Which in turn I think would really hinder new technology and new discoveries in so many areas, especially in science. People like to prove they are the best or they figured something out first. Which has gotten our world to advance so rapidly. Competition drives people to push harder, to not give up, to keep trying to get better at whatever it is they do. People love competition and sports popularity shows this

                     Although I do believe working together is needed at times, and in some situations.  Sharing knowledge will lead to quicker discoveries and more advanced knowledge. However I still believe that the competitve aspect of having your name attached to that discovery or finding would be the ultimate driver of motivation. There can be a downside if this is not done carefully though. Some people tend to take competition to an extreme which can lead to burnout and exhaustion, both mental and physical.  As with anything people can become addicted to competition and the need to win. So we definitely need to find ways to keep our competitive nature from overtaking us.  Tihere has to remain a balance of competition and cooperation.  


            In all reality I feel that both competition and cooperation are ultimately needed for the success of the world and the individual, but I feel that the competition is what pushes us to take risks, which in turn is how we advance as a population and the ultimate key to success. Keeping people competitive while being able to work well in a cooperative situation is the only way we can all succeed. People have to be able and willing to see other people succeed, even help them succeed, which can be tough to maintain in a competitive world. But if you can do that there is nothing people can't achieve together.  
