Many people have negative opinions about materialism.  It often seems like people get judged for excessive consumption, and that can make people or maybe even society as a whole seem greedy or maybe somewhat immoral.  But I think that acquiring things can be an important source of comfort for people, especially for people undergoing stressful times, and producing things that people enjoy can also be a source of satisfaction for people and bring meaning to people's lives.

Anecdotally, my husband has a side hobby as a blacksmith.  He makes knives, forged hairsticks, armor, and many other forged items.  Making things for other people to enjoy makes him feel very fulfilled and is part of what makes his life feel meaningful for him.  It brings him joy when people buy and use the things that he makes.  I also make jewelry and hand embroidered items that I sell in his booth at the events my husband vends at, and I find that making things for people to enjoy also makes me happy.  I enjoy the creative process of making things, and I even find that it helps with stress relief and helps me to manage some of my mental health issues.  It also makes me very happy when people buy and use the things that I make, and both my husband and I are very proud of our work and of the things that we produce for others to use and enjoy.  I have also corresponded a lot with the luthiers who have made the instruments that I've purchased.  They all love making instruments and it's a passion for them, and are excited to get to use their creative abilities to make something new, and to see something that they have created go to a new home where it will be loved.  I have many friends who also make things for a living, like jewelry, painting, and textile arts, and every single one of them also feels the same way about the items that they produce.  They all love the act of creating things and enjoy the feeling of purpose and meaning that creating beautiful things for people to use and enjoy brings to their lives.

I also acquire a lot of musical instruments.  To be honest I have a pretty extensive collection of over a dozen.  I'm sure this might make me seem greedy and hoarding, and it certainly is materialistic.  But I love and enjoy my instruments, and they are a source of happiness for me.  I get excited and feel alive whenever I have gotten a new one, and enjoy the challenge of figuring it out, while still enjoying playing with my older ones.  This joy I feel from acquiring my possessions is another thing that helps me to manage my mental health issues.  During the last couple years of dealing with all the stress and anxiety of Covid, and all the lockdowns and restrictions and worrying about the potential of loved ones getting sick, getting a couple new mountain dulcimers after getting a bonus at work and getting a new harp with the money my parents gave me for Christmas were some of the few things that really made me feel joyful and alive, during a time when I was so anxious that otherwise everything pretty much just felt flat and I was sort of existing in survival mode.  And in general whenever I feel very low or sad or stressed, a new instrument or on a smaller scale a new blouse or new dress or some new decorative thing for my home will often comfort me and help me to feel better and be happier.  And I think that's a valid feeling to have.  It's ok to take joy in our possessions and derive comfort from acquiring them.  You could really look at it as a kind of self care, in a way, and that's often how it ends up feeling to me.  It's hard to describe the feeling of joy and excitement that I have when waiting on a new instrument that I've purchased, but it's definitely a real feeling that isn't quite like anything else, and a very genuine source of comfort and happiness.

Some could argue that acquiring things for comfort or to relieve stress could lead to hoarding, or possibly lead to excessive amounts of debt.  And while that might be a possibility if someone takes it to extremes, almost any behavior can be unhealthy and cause problems when taken to extremes, and moderation is the best policy for pretty much any behavior.  And with moderation and a bit of reasonableness, it doesn't really hurt anything if someone buys a new blouse to celebrate a promotion, a new instrument to celebrate a deal closing at work, a new set of dishes to celebrate a move to a new home or a wedding.  These things make people happy and fulfilled and that's ok.  Our society even acknowledges that it's a fun and joyous thing to acquire new possessions by how we celebrate birthdays and holidays like Christmas and Valentines Day by giving each other possessions or spending money on each other for dinners out and these things help make holidays feel more joyful and meaningful and help increase feelings of connection.  Pretty much everyone sees the giving of gifts as a good thing.  I think taking this a step further, it's also ok to give gifts to yourself, to make yourself feel happy and valued and joyful.

Ultimately I think it comes down to materialism not being nearly as bad as people think it is, and often really a source of good since making things can make people happy and relieve stress, and acquiring things can also make people happy and relieve stress.  It really is win/win.  Everybody, both the makers and the consumers of good, can have joy and meaning in their lives through this aspect of our society.  I think criticism of materialism discounts both the satisfaction that people can get from producing things, as well as the joy and comfort and stress relief that people can get from acquiring things.
