Competition is celebrated all throughout our culture and our exposure to it begins in early childhood. Kids play sports and games, parents even use competition as a way to get children to do chores or follow rules. For example, parents may say things to their children like "let's see who can clean up the playroom the fastest!" So it should be no surprise that competition is used as a motivating factor to achieve success. But is that the most efficent path to success or is cooperation a better alternative?

The thing about competition is that there is a reward for winning the competition and people thrive on thinking they have won something. Even if the reward is simply bragging rights. For instance, take a completetly ordinary pen, with no objective value, and make it a reward. People will be more intrested in that pen because it is a reward than if it was just sitting on a desk, or on a shelf at a dollar store. The value of the pen increases because it is a reward, even though  nothing about the pen has changed. People want to feel accomplished, special and like that have "won" something. It is engrained in us at birth, some may argue competition is a biological drive that one is born with. A remanent of a past life where every meal was something to be "earned" and indviduals were always in competition with the others around them for survival. 

Cooperation being a newer concept for humans, does quite excite the primal drive that competition does. However, as resources become more available and life becomes more inclusive, it makes sense that cooperation would be a better bet in terms of success. Working cooperatively decreases the amount of engery that needs to expended to accomplish a task, since there are multiple indviduals working towards the goal vs one indvidual. Colloborating with others allows for the inclusion of diverse ideas, thoughts and perspectives. Where competition hyper focuses on differnces, cooperation encourages and celebrates them. 

The effects of a competition gone wrong have lasting effects among coworkers and lead to decreased morale among those who "lost" the competition. Cooperation on the other hand, strengthens relationships and if success is not reached the loss is felt equally among the team members. The distribution of success and failure among group members can also increase productivity because now multiple people are effected by indvidual productivity. Businesses would likely see more results using cooperative strategies because if an employee is not intrested in competing they risk dissapointing their cooperative group. This can encourage equal participation among members. 

In conclusion, there is a way to reap the benefits of both strategies. Simply have groups compete, this way you must cooperate in order to compete. If the strategy is successful, than continue on but make sure to mix up the groups so that tribalism doesnt occur. This would increase productivity/success and encourage the mixing of ideas and groups. This would help indviduals that may have difficulty working with others learn how to work with different personality types and learn how to play different roles within the group. Giving all memebers of a cohort the opportunity to play a supportive role, leadership role, etc. 

