Does happiness come from achieving your own dreams and goals? Or does happiness comes from acheiving a broad world happiness that makes you individually happy? In other words do you feel happy when you got a promotion or do you feel happy when you  invented a process that could eradicate hunger soon? There are many people on different ends of this spectrum. Where do you fall in? Let us find out.

Happiness should always be targeted at a top level. A broad midset brings a broad happiness that will make everybody happy. I personally believe that I should focus on bringing happiness to others who will bless me with my own happiness.

Why do I think that a broad happiness is important? Think about two different scenarios. One where you are happy and the world is not. Will your life be happy? Probably not.  If people around you are sad, you will not be happy at all. On the hand, think abouty the other scenario where the world is happy but you are not. It is still undesirable too. But the sadness in your mind is probably much smaller than the first case. The reason is if the world is happy, the world becomes a beautiful place and every sadness in that beautiful world will be always less burdensome. This is how the leaders became leaders. They served the world and made the world a better place and the world still remembers them. Does the world remembers the people who focused on themselves and got every individual goal achieved on time? No. You can understand better with that example.

You may think that if I achieve my happiness, then I am happy. Right? Happiness depends on lots of factors. The broad world should be happy for you to be happy. Imagine riding a train to go to office. You finally reach office but along the way, everybody who interacted with you were sad or angry or irritating. Are you successful in reaching office? Yes. Will you work in office happily? No. You will be equally irritated and will not do any work. So your happiness is only a suset of the world's happiness.

So world being better is always a good objective before my happiness. If you are not satisfied, try living one day with that objective. See how many people love you and bless you. You will be happier than ever even if you did not do anything to make your life happy that day. That is how the world operates. Serve the world and the world will make you happy.
