In our society, many believe that competion equals success. Howver, others believe that cooperation is the key to increased achievement. Competition refers to challenging another individual according to the skills and abilities. These abilities do not necessarily refer to athletic abilities. However, athletic skills and abilities can be used to measure the success of the individual. Skills on the other hand, are a measurement of how a task is completed. For example, a person can be skillful in designing websites. For example, such skillfullness may be evident in the amount of customers this designer possesses. Positive reviews of the designers abilities is also indicative of being skillful. While competition can sometimes be healthy. There are times in which competition can create negative emotions, such as jealousy. When these negative emotions are experienced, performance among individuals can decrease. Therefore, I choose to advocate for cooperation among individuals. 

Studies have suggested that the use of cooperation can increase individual performance. For example, if you are working in a group to complete a task, each persons skills and abilities can benefit the completion of the task. Someone in the group may be good with numbers. Another individual may have excellent writing abilities. By working together these individuals have more of a chance to complete the task accurately. In addition, when working together completing a task can be much more efficient. For instance if the individuals in the group divide the tasks among them, then the task as a whole can be finished faster. This method of cooperationn can also have negative repercussions. Members can experience disagreements regarding how the task should be completed. Resolving such conflicts can lead to a delay in completing the task.

Cooperation has more positive aspects. For example, the task can be completed more successfully.This success can be attributed to each individual providing aspects of their skills and abilities. Cooperation also highlights the importantance of each individual and their contribution to completing the task. In addition, working together is also more efficient. As the old adage says, 'two is better than one."
