Where does happiness come from? This is a question that has long plagued the minds of humans. There seem to be two clear sides to this argument. One side believes that happiness comes from self-fulfillment and a person's ability to achieve the goals that they set for themselves. On the other hand, happiness can also be forged by working to help others who are in need and to pay forward our own good fortune. 

For a person to be truly and completely "happy," I believe that there needs to be a blend of self-fulfillment and the sense of fulfillment that comes from helping others. Thereby, one cannot truly be happy if they are solely focused on themselves, nor if they are solely focused on others. Both sources of happiness are necessary to have a well-rounded sense of self and a full sense of happiness and self-worth. 

For example, the average person spends at least a couple of hours engaging in community service or volunteer work during his or her lifetime. This volunteer work can come in many forms: perhaps court-ordered, necessary for an honorable society membership or for college applications, scholarships, or simply because a person saw a need and wanted to donate their time and effort toward a specifc cause. Whatever the reason for entering into community service in the first place, I know that most of the people I know who have participated have felt that they truly helped by giving back to the community and this sense of helpfulness sparked a sense of pride in their own actions. On the other hand, someone can focus on themselves and achieving their own personal goals and end up with the same sense of fulfillment and happiness. For example, a student athlete working hard in the gym to break an athletic record should be very proud of their hard work and the accomplishment if and/or when they reach the goal. 

Some may say that there can be no middle ground between these two states, and that each person must seek happiness either from outside achievements or from personal goals. Why limit happiness, though? If someone can feel a great sense of happiness from outside achievements as well as a great sense of happiness from their personal goals, then everybody wins. The individual wins because they are able to feel more happiness through two channels than through one, the outside entitity benefits from the individual's acts of service, and the legacy of the individual's accomplishments grows longer and longer. 

Each human is different, and each human's psyche is equally different. Some individuals may indeed be best set up for success and happiness by focusing solely on either outer pursuits. Overall, a mix of outward and inward is ideal, but for some it may be more focused. In the end, it comes down to the person and what their ideals are. The blend of interpersonal and intrapersonal sources of happiness are unique to each and every one of us. 
