Think of any alcohol ad you may have recently seen. The ad shows beautiful, rich, and well dressed men and women at a party, or on the beach. The images show suave and beautiful people being cool and beautiful with their light beer, or hard lemonade. The message you are receiving is that by drinking the same drink that they are holding, you too can be cool, and beautiful, and fun. Taste and quality is not part of the sale of this drink. And it works too - the majority of alcohol ads feature the same theme. The truth is that modern humans are way too impressionable when it comes to images and impressions, and that causes real harm in certain ways.

Alcohol ads are not the only warning signs. Advertising in general is focused on making an impression in your mind, not by advertising the quality of the product, but by being the most loud, the most funny, even the most annoying. Radio ads grab your attention in the car by playing the sound of a police siren. Lines of huge billboards along the highway on the way to work compete with the road before you for attention. Images of beautiful and skinny women, and impossibly muscular and lean men, are causing body dysmorphia in our children.

At work, and when meeting new people, you often hear the warning "first impressions are lasting impressions". Make a mistake early, and you may be viewed as a bumbling oaf, no matter how perfect your work afterwards. Dress well to meet your significant other's parents, so they won't build an image of you as a loser in their minds.

Scientists have even shown that fake images can change the way we remember images or events, distorting our inner thoughts and memories. Politicians have moved quickly to take advantage, releasing fake news, deepfaked images, and rumors to poison the standings of opposing candidates and confuse the electorate.

These influences that images and impressions have on us have been well known in the public for decades, so one might think that the populace has become immune to these tricks. But the sad truth is, we are just as susceptible to these tricks as before, even knowing about them as they are presented to us.

In advertising, personal interactions, and even our deepest memories, we are far too susceptible to images and impressions. Knowing this is not enough - now that we know, what will we do about it?




