Our modern society has been increasingly focused on material objects and the acquisition of "stuff" since the advent of plastics in the post-war years, when it became possible to mass-manufacture toys, housewares, and other items inexpensively. During an era of perceived prosperity following World War II, Americans flocked to new construction in the suburbs, and, buoyed by high-paying jobs with good benefits, were able to truly embrace the "American Dream" of green lawns, happy families, and all you could need or want. Of course, this was not true for all American families during that time, but it was certainly the trend. 
Think about the expression "easy come, easy go." During eras such as the Depression in America, most people had very little, and as such, tended to place great value on appreciating what they had, and keeping it functional and relevant--it was a culture of reuse, repair, recycle, the sort of mantras that would become fashionable in the late 20th century. But for Depression-era Americans, it was very much a necessity rather than a stylish ideology. Socks were darned. Toy parts were reattached. Patches were put on clothes. This would change as things moved into the mid-20th century and disposable items became more commonplace.
While the "Depression mentality" would still have its presence known during this era, particularly among older cohorts, we gradually became more embedded in a mentality of "it's worn out, throw it out, or donate it. Buy something new." When we do this, it encourages the manufacture of more physical objects, rather than the reuse of existing ones. Fast fashion like Primark, H&M, Uniqlo, etc., is a prime example of this. These sellers manufacture clothes with the idea that it might be worn for one season and then discarded, whereas our Depression-era ancestors would be suggesting that you buy something that will last a long time and can be easily repaired to increase its longevity.
As a child of the 1980s, I think I grew up during Peak Materiality. Madonna was even singing about it with her hit "Material Girl." It was a song about "stuff" versus "love," the physical versus the abstract. And there were no false pretenses--Ms. Ciccone was telling it exactly like it was. The 1980s was an era before recycling became cool. It was an era of disposable toys being hurled into your face in between segments of every single Saturday morning cartoon. That said, I think that there has been a fair bit of a shift among people in my age group in the sense that we find value in the physical artifacts of our youth; vintage toy and collectible shops are big business, and we look at those old Ghostbusters or Transformers or Nintendo cartridges in your attic as something special. At the very least, it should be appreciated, and not in a landfill. Still materialistic? Absolutely, but at least without the consumption/discarding of the object. (It was also an era of people doing a LOT of coke, but that is, I suppose, an experience form of consumption rather than a physical hoarding, so I guess that's something, at least.)
Anecdotally, I've been recently buying a lot of hockey cards. Is this something I need to appreciate hockey? No, not really. Do I need to own every card variation, background, color, autograph, of a player that I like? Again, no, not really. I have 6000+ CDs in my house. 1500+ LPs. Could I stream most of this music, and enjoy it just as much? Almost certainly. But we have this attachment to materiality that is difficult to shake, and it affects all of us, even those who are conscious about it and wish we were not so culturally embedded in it. The idea of separation is a tough one to get behind, no matter how good our intentions might be behind it.
I am a married, childless middle-aged woman with a three-bedroom house in a nice cul-de-sac. Do I need any of that? No, probably not. We have more than we need as a family with no kids. But there's also that cultural expectation of buying a home (as an Old Millennial, I am lucky to have done so!) and having that nice quiet suburban life. And that's all material. My yard is material. My house and its contents are material. My 3D printers spit out far more material, while children in poor countries starve. Where is all this taking us? Nowhere good, I suspect.
In the end, we are a far cry from who we were a hundred years ago, an era during which most of us had little, but valued what we had. But now, even when we have far more than others, what we have never feels adequate. A new car, a new boat, a new video game or toy or whatever our imaginations can conjure up that we need. We should return to a time in which we can still live comfortably, but without our unhealthy obsession with more, more, more.

