I think people can acheive more success by either cooperation or competition based on a variety of factors. It could be the work environment, it could be the individual's personality, or any number of other factors. However, to truly be successful I believe it is important to have a balance of cooperation and competition.

I have been in retail management positions. Sometimes, it took me a while to get there. Other times, I climbed the ladder at an accelerated pace. When I climbed the ladder at an accelerated pace, I believe cooperation is what got me there. That being said, those positions did not tend to last as long as when I utilized competition and truly working my way to the top.

However, competition is not without it's downfall. It can create a hostile work environment where everyone is out for themselves. I did end up leaving a position after several years because one person, who was almost abusive in nature, decided to launch a smear campaign only so they could get their friend in my position. This was after the fact of working with them to design a work schedule that fit their needs. I would also say this person had the most privilege not only in the workplace, but also in society. The person did not care what they thought they needed to do to get what they want, including stepping on others. I handled this my getting a promotion to another location rather than stooping to their level.

Despite trying to play to my strengths when in a competetive mode, I never thought it was okay or ethical to step on others to acheive success. It is disappointing to me personally that some people will have a "win at all costs" mentality without considering how it could legitimately change the trajectory of someone's life. At that point, one should consider asking themselves have they truly acheived success if they have failed as a compassionate human being.

This is why I believe personally that a balance of cooperation and competition is necessary. When I was a leader, I tried to lead by example. I never asked any of the people I was supervising to do tasks I wasn't willing to do. I feel that people cannot have respect for a leader if a leader is looking down on them.

After my time as a leader, I have discovered that I don't actually enjoy it and for me personally leadership does not necessarily equal or embody success. I don't wish to be in a leadership position at all anymore. I like to be responsible for my own success in specific tasks, rather than having the responsibility to make sure an entire team is successful. That is not to say that I would not help others with being successful in a task should they need it. Only that I don't want it coming back to me if someone refuses to do their work. I do my work and I take pride in doing it well. That is the only reflection I would like to be made on myself.

In many cases (especially in retail), the pay raise or even the base rate of pay is not worth what they ask of those in higher positions. I left retail a few years ago to pursue self-employment and I really can't see myself ever going back unless absolutely necessary. I did ever go back, I would not pursue a leadership position even if I was asked to do so. I would be happy having individual success in each task. This is a rarity not only in retail, but in the working world in general.

I think true personal success can be accomplished with being happy within yourself. I don't think positions that require you to only utilize competition to acheive can allow for this. This is where it comes back to the individual. For me personally, I can accomplish tasks on my own, help others through cooperation, and feel successful. Yet most want to climb the ladder through competition or have higher (albeit not much higher) wages.

On the other hand, there is nothing wrong with utilizing healthy competitions. This is not stepping over others, but perhaps small rewards for personal acheivements or fun tasks. Examples could be bagging competitions, making sure you are asking for people's rewards numbers to apply to their order, or other examples that could be acheived by any member of a team rather than only a select few. This is how I believe a balance of cooperation and competition could be utilized for not only individual success, but also a successful non-hostile work environment, and ultimately a successful team.
