Being happy is often dependent on a multitude of factors, such as whether we, as people, feel personally fulfilled, whether the people around us are content and happy, and whether we are in a safe, stress-free environment. Many different aspects of life can facilitate these desires and fulfillments, but there is not one specific way to reach this goal of being happy. Human beings are multi-faceted and can switch between focusing on their personal goals and the happiness of others throughout their lives. That being said, there are ways to guarantee your own personal happiness by settling on one of the two for the time being. I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals, which will later enable them to also affect the happiness of others.
Fulfilling goals can feel fantastic. Following our dreams enables us to reach inside of ourselves and find the truest part of ourselves. We can express ourselves in every day life and genuinely feel happy knowing we're doing well. Furthermore, humans have multiple goals that can fulfill them over time. Our life doesn't end as soon as we complete our major life goal; humans will soon find another to make them happy. This enables human beings to live continuously fulfilling lives over time, so long as they work hard at something they care about; however, fulfilling dreams means nothing without the people around us. If I had a dream to become a singer, would it make a difference whether I was successful in that dream without taking into consideration the feelings of those I love?
The fullfillment of personal goals enables people to find good companions. It has often been said that when we are most successful and happy, that is when we tend to have the least support - people get jealous and they distance themselves. Finding personal fullfillment can enable a person to find people who will support them in both their worst and best moments, enabling extremely happy and secure relationships. We learn how to love others by loving ourselves, and focusing on our personal goals is one method to do so. It also enables us to find people that have the same interests and goals as us, morally and career-wise. In reality, focusing on our own goals can fast-track personal relationships and give us more experience over time. We can fall in love with people who agree with us, rather than constantly trying to fulfill partners who aren't right for us. The same applies for friendships and jobs. By focusing on ourselves, we can find jobs and companies that align with our moral values, rather than working for companies that do terrible things most people wouldn't agree with. 
Focusing on personal goals also fosters important character development traits such as independence and understanding towards yourself. Learning to be independent as an adult is extremely important, as there won't always be people surrounding you to help you. There are times that an adult will feel lonely, stressed, embarassed, and hurt in pursuit of any goal, but learning to deal with this on your own first can guarantee survival in a difficult world. Then, with time, relying on others can be learned - but by this point, you'll have learned enough about yourself that you'll be able to find people that truly care about you and won't take advantage of you. As humans, we tend to surround ourselves with people like us - the only way to do this fully is by understanding ourselves very well.
I have seen many people suffering later in life because they regretted not completing any of the things they set out to do. People will always come and go in life, and of course the ones that stay deserve to be treasured, but we only have one chance to learn how to fulfill ourselves. If you're too busy fulfilling other people, you will never learn how to fulfill yourself. There are 7 billion people on earth - if a person was to try to fulfill all of them, they would never be happy. 
Some might argue that fulfilling personal goals can also be extremely stressful. Many people involved in showbiz work part time to make ends meet while also struggling to get acting jobs and singing jobs. College in and of itself is a stressful period of four years in which people study intensely in order to get their degree. Becoming successful in any branch of work takes time, discipline, and dedication. The happiness that comes from working towards a goal, however, often outweighs these feelings. People often think to themselves that the struggle is worth it because they're happy struggling so long as they're doing what they love. The fulfillment of personal goals can make life difficulties worthwhile.
It's true that the happiness of the people that we love is an important piece to take into consideration, but by constantly focusing on other people, a person can never gain true happiness. Love goes both ways; if we focus on other people, those people should also put some of their focus on us, enabling us to grow together - but unfortunately, life doesn't work in idealistic scenarios. Focusing on personal goals is a safer, more guaranteed way of finding happiness. Some might also argue that by focusing only on yourself, you're limiting your compassion and understanding towards other people - but the opposite is actually true. The more you gain experience in the world with the motivation of pursuing your own goals, the more you'll understand your likes and dislikes. You learn, by meeting many different people (rather than focusing on specific people) how you like being treated, and what you find disrespectful. This can teach a person how to properly treat the important people in their life so as not to hurt them, and can enable them to be a good friend.
Personal goals and the happiness of others go hand in hand. It's important to not only choose one without consideration for the other; however, focusing on personal goals is a way to introduce making others happy and forming healthy relationships. Rarely does focusing solely on the happiness of others enable us to be our truest self and find a life that we can be happy with. A balance is important, but focusing on personal goals can offer a balance over time, while focusing on the happiness of others cannot. A life of fulfilling personal goals also doesn't mean you ignore the people you care about completely. It doesn't mean you don't have anyone around you. It simply means that you're focusing on yourself for the time being to grow as a person. There is nothing wrong with wanting to take time away for yourself to change and mature. And in actuality, it can help us understand our position in the world and with other people much better than we would otherwise. It offers a lot of insight and knowledge.
