   Happiness, how do we find it? People think that happiness is found in many different ways. Some people have personal goals for happiness and some people have external reasons for happiness. Some people find happiness in helping others and some people find happiness in doing things for themselves. How do you find your happiness?

   Does happiness come from being selfless and helping others, or does it come from helping yourself? In my personal expierences it can come from both places. I have gathered emence happiness from doing things soly for myself weather it be reading a good book for the pleasure of it or taking colege classes to excell my career. I have also recieved great pleasure volunteering my time at a mens shelter or helping at my church youth groop retreets. I believe that happiness can show up in a lot of different ways and it only changes when baised on a persons personal view of the different things happening in that time and at that spicific place.

   Is happiness a fixed feeling? Can we change the way we feel happiness or can we change how much happiness affects us? for these questions, I have some good news. I believe that we can! I beleve that happiness is gained and created baised on the state of mind that we are in durring that spicific time. I believe that if we look at almost any situation there is a silver lining and a reason to be happy. I believe that even in the darkest times we can find light if we strive to do so.

  How do we find the light in the darkness, the happiness when we are so sad? I believe that finding happiness isn't always easy, that sometimes it does take effort. I believe that sometimes as humans we tend to focus on the negitavity that is clearly being presented to us other then the things that we need to be greatful and happy for. I believe that sometimes happiness may take time to find, maybe even meditation or therapy to achieve but it is always there and achieveable.

   Even if you cant find happiness it is there somewhere waiting for you to find. Look at things that you are greatful for, things that make you smile or make you feel special. Don't dwel on the negitive things even if they are everpresent and presistant. Look for the gold at the end of your rainbow. Meditate in the sun, seek therapy, or do whatever it is that you have to do to find your happiness because it is out there somewhere. So, with that being said, GO FIND YOUR HAPPINESS RIGHT NOW!
