Flashy cars, flashy jewels, and flashy lifestyles.  Living large is all over today's popular culture.  The internet, and soical media in particular, has made it easy to tune into the glamourous lives of the rich and famous.  The trends have certainly changed, but flaunting weath as a sign of social status, and social worth, dates back to ancient times.  Materialism is not a sign of modern moral decay.  Materialism has always been central to human culture because of it's association with power, it's just easier to observe using modern technology.

The rich of ancient civilizations famously flaunted their wealth as a display of power.  Ancient egyptian nobles competed to outdo each other's appearances using increasingly elaborate wigs, incense, and make up.  Ironically, French nobles would become famous for doing the exact same types of things hundreads of years later.  In the same vein, Greeks and Romans are famous for their dabauchourus parties littered with material excess and frankly amusing displays of idle wealth.  These types of gatherings have become part of historical popular culture as symbols of how the wealthy maintained and flaunted their power.

While everything we have reflecting the raucous parties of the senators and the royals comes from second hand accounts and the occasional insulting mural, modern technology allows for the instant sharing of these types of events.  Instagram accounts dedicated to the lives of the children of the rich and Youtube channels focused on who's who have created an environment saturated with real time evidence of living large.

The effect these image have on the public have created an entire subculture dedicated to creating the biggest social stir possible as a way to garner attention and social value.  Fake plane sets and rented jewelry create the appearance of endless shopping sprees and vacations, but outside of a small percentage these accounts the pictures are all staged.  It's easy to artifically inflate one's wealth, and thus one's social value, using the relative anynonimity of the internet.  Creators and influencers use the appearance of wealth to attract envy, acclaim, and ultimately soical power through the virtue of exposure.

It can be argued that the modern saturation of pop culture with images of excessive wealth have been strongly tied to increased feelings anxiety and low self esteem in those that consume the content.  While these effects of constant exposure to excess materialism may very well be true, it's dishonest to assume that this is a new trend.  The discontent caused by seeing a neighbor's new gold inlaid sandels is quite probably similar to the sensation of feeling less than after scrolling through the sponsered page of that influencer that feels so much like your friend.

Material goods have always been highly linked with shows of power and influence.  Modern technology has created an environment in which flaunting material goods has become as easy as the click of a button.  Humans have not become more materialistic over time, their ability a present their material wealth (or appearance of material wealth) has simply become easier.  One's possesions and subsequent social value is no longer the talk of the 300 person ball, it is potentially the talk of the entire globe.


