     It is a question that goes back to biblical times:  How does one find true happiness and joy?  Do we strictly follow a path that allows us to pursue our own dreams and desires, or do we seek happiness by helping make the world better, finding joy in what we do along the way?  If we seek only our own persuits, are we ignoring others with needs, thereby making the whole world around us less happy?  Or, is true happiness to be found in the old expression, "Find a job you love doing and you'll never work a day in your life."
     I would suggest that happiness can truly be found when we are able to focus on the happiness of those around us.  We can easily chase our own desires, but often those are ephemeral or even damaging.  We can focus so much on only our own goals and dreams that we exclude everything else in life, including things that could potentially bring us happiness.  By being a light in this world, by helping others, we can create conditions that then allow everyone to find happiness, including ourselves.  
     I am sure we all know the person (or many people) who only have time for themselves.  The person you went to school with who now can only schedule you for coffee every two months to catch up, because they are racing up the career ladder at breakneck speed.  Perhaps you know the person who got caught up in the pleasures of the flesh, engaging in relationships with others long before they were truly ready, only because they thought they wanted this.  That same person who then wishes they hadn't done that, saddled with children or health issues.  How about a person who thinks they are finding happiness in a party lifestyle, using drugs or drinking?  How many people have succumbed to that lifestyle only to falsely believe it was bringing them happiness?
     Another reason why helping others is the key to happiness is that when we can get away from focusing on only ourselves, we are improving the conditions of the world around us.  We may also find that our own desires change or shift over time, but that taking pleasure in our work, doing our best at our job, helping the people around us be their best, all go a long way to making our world a happier place.  It is much like the old saying, "Giving is better than receiving."  It indeed is better to give of ourselves to others than to only be focused on our own needs.  Similarly, when we only focus on ourselves, we may then risk ignoring the fact that we indeed already have much, while others around us are in need.  
     Some might argue that in today's world it is foolish to only focus on other people's happiness and needs.  They may say that therapists are booked solid with patients who sacrificed their life to do what someone else wanted.  Some might also argue that if you are so busy doing things for everyone else, you might end up neglecting yourself.  I would counter these two arguments however by stating that this idea of ignorning your own needs when helping others is overstated and not totally truthful.  One can be in tune with their own needs while helping others.  One can dedicate time towards serving others and find deep meaning and personal satisfaction in it.  
     The argument that we should be selfish, or that the world is our oyster and we should grab the pearl is in many ways indicitive of the selfish thinking that often leads to unhappiness.  By only focusing on our own wants and desires, we might find ourselves in the position of having everything tangible we could ever want, but not actually having anything of meaning in our life.  
     I believe that the true measure of happiness does therefore come from living a life with meaning.  By focusing on the goals and happiness of others, one can engage in making the world better.  A teacher may once have had a desire to be a great stage performer on their instrument, but ultimately end up without a career or fame or much of anything.  However, a great teacher who fully understands that they are fulfilling the dreams and aspirations of others can find meaningfullness in that action, thereby bringing themselves a different, deeper, more substantial level of happiness than merely worldly, material possessions or notoriety could provide.  
    I would close with the idea that it seems impossible to find happiness and experience true joy when the world is suffering around you. That isn't happiness at all.  That is selfishness. 
