In society today, people are influenced way to much by images and impressions they encounter on a daily basis. People recieve information in our modern world at a much higher rate through cell phone, computer, television and other electronic media.  In additon many stores and roadways are peppered with digital advertising to influence society.  Children begin using digital devices sometime as young as infancy.  The way a human thinks is shaped at an early age, thus influence in today's world through media begins not long after birth.  It has been proven that visual cues tied with learning knew information is much more easily recalled when tied to something seen.  If this type of visual bombardment is beginning in infancy and continuing through out life on a daily basis, how can we expect a person's thoughts and reality to be unmatipulated by the constant imaging seen or heard through advertising, social media, entertainment or various other visual or auditory submersion in daily life.  We have no choice but to conclude that people are overly influenced by these things and individual thoughts, opinions and desires are no longer unbiased or woven into the subconscious mind.

Many would argue that they are inteligent enough to seperate their own thoughts and are keen to pick up on persuasion before making decisoins.  Although we all would like to think we have such control, the occurances are to extreme and to often for this to be true.  Most people are simply so conditioned to manipulation that they don't even realize it is occuring.  If they took the time to reflect on how instances where this occured, I believe they would quickly change their mind.  When you enter a store in October and see Christmas displays, do you not begin to think about holiday preperation and the impending need or time crunch to purchase gifts?  When you are hungry and driving down the interstate can anyone deny that a large image of tastey food on a billboard won't give them the urge to exit at the next offramp?  Can any of us deny that when we see our favorite actors and actresses using a product, that we don't trust them and want that item too.  After all, we trust them from loving the character they played, don't we?  One can argue that if we are extremely or overly influenced it is really no harm no foul as long is it is for a positive outcome.  But, how do we know the outcome is truely positive?  
