Materialism has been a function of society since the first rise of civilizations.  It was a way to measure personal accomplishment, provide hedonistic pleasures and part of the economic engine of society.  As all aspects of society, structure, technology, medicine, education and others have advanced so has the opportunity to obtain material goods.  Beyond that, it is ingrained in to people that more stuff means more success.  As an anecdote, as I was growing up, a popular saying was 'the one who dies with the most toys...wins.'

Materialism, however, does have practical purposes.   Producing goods employs people and gives them opportunities to have easier and more pleasant lives.  It also allows for development of practical and beneficial items  to improve society and allow the producers more economic resources to develop new goods for societal consumption that can increase productivity and improve life.  

For good or bad, people have been taught to measure success by the goods they can acquire and measure themselves against each other by what they possess beyond the material things that give them what they need to live comfortable and secure lives.  Where a basic car will provide mobility to improve productivity, a luxury car shows others that you are more successful in your efforts than most people.  But it is more than just having  a nicer version of something that creates criticism, it is often acquiring things that have no practical purpose for individuals that creates the most criticism and does more damage than it is worth, mostly to the physical environment because there is no need to use resources to produce it.

But excessive materialism goes beyond the waste of resources.  It is a reminder to people of the inequality of distribution of resources that causes the criticism of materialism.  Things are a tangible item that people can use as examples as to why materialsim is bad.

People are always going to want more things as they seek self validation for their existence and they are going to be irritated when other people have more and nicer things than they do.  It makes them feel like a failure or that they are being judged, which they are because they do it themselves, by other people.  

Society should be criticized for excessive materialsim.  The world has enough resources to provide shelter, food and health services for everyone on Earth.  Creating things just to have things is not the most useful way to use the Earth's resources.  However, people need to have incentives to be a productive force in the world.  If there is no societal reward for working hard, than people will quickly fall to the lowest common denominator of productivity and necessary innovations to improve life will suffer.

Materialism is not the true problem, it is a measure of society's values and beliefs.  Changing beliefs is very difficult and takes time.  People are angry at wealth distribution right now, angry about climate change and increasing costs for basic services but have not been able to move forward to change laws that would alleviate these issues.  Often the argument cited is that the wealthy control the laws, that is the cynical golden rule, he who has the gold, makes the rules.  The average individual cannot make a difference against the tide of resources against them.  The problem is definitely an elephant and the solution is how do you eat an elephant, one bite at a time.

Society needs to prioritize what is important and focus on one item at a time.  This is much easier said then done because everyone's priorities are going to be different and it is going to be difficult to move forward with any meaningful fixes unless people are willing to compromise and work together.

Moving away from materialism and allowing people to validate themselves through experiences rather than possessions would require a very large paradigm shift in the values of the United States.  It is also not an idea that will be easily sold in a society that has based its own self identification in its ability to produce goods and services for its population.  

Materialism should not be criticized, simply because criticism makes people defensive.  What needs to change is the emphasis on what makes a successful and happy life.


