                       Happiness is an emotion that's very priceless and pure. People often become happy even for the slightest reason. Happiness is mainly focused on different areas, for example, some people will be happy when something they dreamed of becomes fulfilled whereas, some people will be happy when their beloved ones fulfil their dreams. Majority of people will be happy from their core if it occurs to their most beloved circle of people. For an individual, it always will be him or her and their family's happiness. Basically when they are able to bring happiness to their family they will be satisfied to their core.

                      On the contrary, there are also people who will be super focused only about them their success and their growth. They will be super practical and will shut their emotions in such a way that they don't need to be vulnerable. On a time scale, they even want to be the best among their family. These people always find happiness when something happens good in their way and will not be happy if it happens to others around them.

                       As a coin has two sides, some people come in both of the above mentioned category. These kind of people will be the ones who will be happy if something happens to them as well as their family and also to people around them who does not belong to their close circle. They will be sometimes not so happy when something good happens to others rather than them or their close circle because with every happiness their also exist some sort of jealousy. It's like a roller coaster of mixed emotions.

                       To be frank, people's mind is so complicated that they will be having feelings and emotions like happiness, anger etc. and it's hard to be so happy for some one else other than their beloved people. On the other hand there are some people who will be genuinely happy and selfless also. So basically it can be said that for an emotion like happiness it will always depend upon the kind of person he or she is. Still we can say that the purest form of happiness is when one is happy himself and for others happiness.
