In the world today it is clear that images and impressions heavily influence people effecting the way people feel, act, and pursue goals. Individuals are easily influenced by the media and there is no mistaking that in this day in age everyone is on or using social media. Images and impressions from public figures and popular celebrities impact and influence people directly. Individuals are impacted through viewing social media online, watching television or movies, and seeing commerial ads or interviews with public figures and celebrities. It is undoubtly true that individuals are influenced and effected just thinking the way women, for example, are influenced by makeup tutorials or products that makes us look and feel younger. A lot of times in advertisements and in the media we see people and think they made it because they are attractive.

First and foremost, individuals are influenced by images and impressions which in turn have a large effect on people regarding how they feel, act, and pursue goals. Individuals are impacted emotionally where some may feel depressed or upset when they feel they do not meet the standards of what is percieved as beautiful or attractive today. People are affected emotionally wishing they looked as radiant or handsome as the celebrities and actors on tv. This is what effects people because the images and impressions the celebrities and public figures make then impact how people act. People begin following advice and researching to see how these popular people in the media are able to look that good or be successful. Individuals are focused on crazy diet trends and expensive products. For example, all of the women influenced by Kim Kardashians dangerous diet to fit into the Marylin Monroe dress at the Met Gala has gained popularity. People especially women have been impacted by the images and impression because she is a celebrity and she is doing fine and looked beautiful then, people will think oh I should try that if she was able to then I can too! Individuals stray from more productive goals because when someone sees something interesting regarding attraction and has the desire to be more attractive then they follow diet, exercise, and trends in social media and reports that their role models are partaking in. 

Unfortunately, the issue is that individuals are not focusing on goals and taking actions that will benefit their individual future aspirations, instead, the focus is primarily on appearance. When did it become more important to have the right look than to have the right capabilities and skills? Today, people are negatively impacted by images and impressions effecting the actions we take, the goals we pursue, and the way we feel about ourselves. The media and advertisements are all over and we see it everyday peaking our curiosity and interests influencing what we decide we want. The problem is when we decide we want something that is not good for us because we begin to believe appearance is priority and the most important trait to success when it is not. Yes, it is good to dress the part for the job you are doing but it is important to remember we are dressing for real life goals and not a hypothetical role. Appearance should not be everything just because an influential politician, celebrity, or advertisement is doing something drastic does not mean we should too especially dangerous trends. All in all, there is no doubt images and impressions have too much effect on people, but ultimately, we have the ability to choose what we do, how we take that information, and what happens next in our lives.  What we see should never be more important than what we are capable of doing because one should never judge someones abilities by looks alone.
