         Happiness is something that we all long for. It is part of human nature to want happiness. Many of us find it, while others do not. So, then, how does one find happiness? I argue that happiness is something we find when we pursue or own personal goals while simultaneously striving for the betterment of humanity. In this essay, I will elaborate on this, as well as debunk opposing arguments on this topic. 
       The formula for happiness consists of two components. The first component is that one must have their own personal goals and dreams that they are striving to achieve. These goals must be measurable and attainable. For example, a goal of mine is to save up enough money to buy a house. This goal is measurable because I am able to see exactly how much money I have saved at any point in time. This goal is attainable because I have the means to put aside money each day. You may be wondering, though,  "How does a personal goal relate to happiness?". Let me elaborate. When we set goals for ourselves, no matter how big or small, and achieve them, we learn to trust ourselves. When we trust ourselves, we build a sense of self-efficacy, and thus, confidence. Confidence is an attribute that carries into all aspects of life. Research shows that people who are confident, also tend to be happier. 
       The second component in finding happiness is to strive for the betterment of humanity, Research shows that creating positive experiences in life generates more positive experiences. It is like a ripple-effect. In addition, when we are doing good for others, we often feel good ourselves. There is joy in spreading kindness and putting in the effort to make the world a better place for all.  Therefore, if we put time and energy into bettering humanity, by means of charity, volunteering, or any sort of conscious effort, we are going to feel those effects ourselves. 
       Some argue that happiness can be found by either achieving our goals, or by improving humanity. However, I argue that we need both of those components to find happiness. Happiness is not possible if we focus solely on ourselves, as we need human interaction and positive reinforcement from others in order to gain happiness. In contrast, we cannot find happiness if we focus solely on improving humanity. This is because we would be neglecting ourselves in the process. True happiness can only be found when both of these components are woven together. 
       Overall, I believe that happiness can only be achieved when we focus on our own personal goals as well as the improvement of humanity. In life, we need to find a balance of the two in order to find happiness for ourselves. By intergrating our personal goals as well as our goals for humanity, we can all attain true happiness. 
       
