     Cooperation and competition seem at first glace antithetical, at odds with each other.  In truth, both are necessary in a complex human environment for an individual to be successful.  Without competiton, we would likely stagnate as a species, and not strive to achieve bigger and better things.  However, I believe that cooperation is more advantageous than competition on a whole, both for the individual and for soiciety as a whole.
     In the animal kingdom, competition serves as the status quo.  Animals and other organisms have to compete for scarce resources.  For humans, however, our enlarged frontal lobes allow for us to form prosocial relationships.  Through these, we are able to accomplish more as a group, tribe, society, or whatever form we take as a collective, than we are on our own.  Even in early human history, this shows itself.  Groups of humans would hunt large animals together, far larger than any one human could successfully take down.  Through this cooperation, everyone is able to benefit.  Were early humans to compete with each other to try and hunt a mammoth for example, they likely would be unsuccessful.
     From a more individual standpoint, cooperation is more beneficial for the reason that humans are by nature imperfect.  It's impossible to expect an individual to be skilled at everyting.  If you're simply trying to get by in life by competing, you're eventually going to run into someone who is more skilled than you.  However, if your intention is to cooperate, you're more incentivezed to surround yourself with people who complement you, having skills in areas you don't.  Thus, through cooperation, people are able to pool their collective knowledge and accomplish more than they could on their own.
     Proponents of competition will likely point to extreme outliers of humanity, billionaires and elite athletes who compete with rivals and try to achieve greatness through competitng in their respective fields.  While this competiton benefits these individuals, it is important to remember that nobody achieves these levels of greatness in a vacuum.  To truly excel in a field, one must draw on the collective knowledge of hundreds, if not thousands, of peolpe.  An athlete has trainers, a busniess person studies from businesses of the past, an architect looks at blueprints made from architects of the past.  We, as humans, are cooperating to expand the collective knowledge pool of our species.  If humanity had been exclusively focused on competition, there would be no incentive to pass on this knowledge, and we would never be able to grow as a collective of mankind.
     In summary, cooperation leads to greater achievement than competition.  This is true at an individual level, but especially at a societal level.  The more we as a species work together and learn from each other, the more we all benefit.
