In today's day and age, physical image seems to be more important than just being yourself.  In magazines, the models get photoshopped to look like angels.  On television people are covered in so much makeup!  Rich people even decide to have surgery to look like their favorite movie star or entertainer.  Let's be honest... no one really looks like that.  But, in our minds we want to be just like these people.  We have to have the best clothes, and the best body, and the best looks.  If we don't accomplish these things then we are not good enough.  People think these things about themselves and it's not true.  But the media, and other outlets won't stop showing and telling people that these are how things should be.

Personally, I find that someone's heart and kindness make them beautiful.  If you are ugly on the inside, then I believe you are ugly on the outside, no matter what you look like.  I personally do not understand the concept of being the best at everything and having the best of everything.  I remember one time in elementary school, there was a girl that I didn't really like because she had an attitude of gigantic proportions.  She never wore nice clothes or did anything with herself.  One day I brought her a dress that I didn't fit in anymore.  She loved that dress and wore it often.  She had a really crappy home life and that is why she acted the way that she did.  We all have things going on that may affect us daily, weekly or even monthly.

Basically, I am saying not to judge a book by it's cover.  You don't have any idea what a person is going through behind the scenes.  I think that the best thing to do is be yourself, but be the best version of yourself.  Be a kind human being.  Love people even when they don't look like society says they should.  Love people even when they don't have all the objects that everyone else has.  In conclusion, just be a decent human and don't judge others is my entire point of these paragraphs.  Images and impressions have a huge effect on people these days.  I truly wish people would see their beauty.

