      Materialism is a necessary function of a modern civilized society. When the pursuit of riches is undertaken, society advances, all boats-both big and small- are lifeted, and life is enriched. Without the possibility of wealth, riches, and tangible treasures, we would likely be living boring and unfulfilling lives. Simply stated: the world would be an awful place to live if materialism were absent from it. Criticize materialism when the situation warrants but understand it's a net positive for the world.
      We can tie materialism into the entrepreneurial spirit that courses through the veins of millions of people. People have dreams and wish to create things that make the world a better place to live. This can be new medicines, new ways to grow crops, inventions such as the Iphone that allow us to be connected with those we love. Boiling it down, people want to create something that other people will want to buy. Their job as entrepreneurs is to convince you to take money from your own pocket and give it to them. The creation of these technologies and products are what lifts all boats in our world and makes the world a better place to live.  If there was no treasure for an entrepreneur's hard work, then what initiative would they have to begin with. It's their striving for a better life, more possessions, that allows the world to be a more habitable and hospitable place to live. 
     Yes, it's true, there are downsides to materialism. Some people can never have enough. If you allow it, materialism can cause a rot inside you and create unhappiness.  Also, the have-nots of the world look upon those who have acquired great wealth with disdain. Materialsim can create a chasm in society if left unchecked, I grant you. One only need look at the mega-rich and the increasing wealth gap among the classes. Yes, this is an issue that needs correcting, but taking away the incentive for people to create and make life better is not the way to go. 
     There are numerous examples of people who grew up in abject poverty who turned their lives around and achieved great things. Who created wonderful products and inspired millions of people. These people should be applauded, not criticized.  Materialism isn't going anywhere and it's important that we not let it rule our lives, but enrich our lives. We only get one chance at life on this big blue marble we call Earth. It's important that we jump into the arena of ideas, cast our nets wide, and see how we can benefit not only society, but our own lives as well. In this sense, materialism is life-affirming and wholly necessary.
      

