In our society, some people emphasize and promote competition as the only way to achieve success, while others emphasize the power of cooperation. The people who promote competition argue that intense rivalry at work or play, can drive people to either to avoid failure or achieve important victories. But in our society and in the world, cooperation is much more likely to produce more significant  and lasting accomplishments. History has shown this is the true way to success. Our world, our society, is built on cooperation. Whether it be in sports, or the work place, or our personal lives, cooperation is the fundemental building block of our world, not competition.

We see cooperation everywhere in our society, none more obvious than when we watch a sporting event. When we are sitting down at home in front of the TV, or in the fresh air of a stadium, we are there to watch groups of men or women come together, to cooperate, to play a game. There is no sport without cooperation, we are told this from the time that we are children. We can all think back to our childhood and remember that one saying that our coach and parents always told us, "There's no I in team." We value sports as a society because of the cooperation they foster. Sure we may have the big stars, such as Michael Jordan, Tom Brady, Babe Ruth, or Lebron James, but those men do not make a team. They are enhanced by their team. Michael Jordan or Tom Brady can not win champoinships without the Chicago Bulls or the New England Patriots. So it is clearly show in sports, that only through cooperation, not competition, that we can succeed in life.

But it is not just through sports that we see this, we are shown it in the work place as well. From the moment we clock in, we are constantly surrounded by the power of cooperation. Whether you are a white collar office worker or a blue collar factory worker, you can not succeed in your career without cooperation. The white collar office worker cooperates with others in the office to complete budget reports or come up with presentations. The factory worker isn't building a car on his own, he is working on a small part of an assembly line. Without cooperation, industry comes to a grinding hault. Even the titans of industry, such as Elon Musk or Bill Gates, wouldn't have succeeded without the cooperations of their fellow workers.

Finally we see the power of cooperation in our own personal lives. We see this every day, with friends, family, or spouses. Humans are social animals and we must cooperate to survive as a species. We live for cooperation, are lives are driven by it. We form bonds with total strangers over hobbies and interests, that blossom into lifelong frienships. We cooperate with family to make it through life together. We find love and cooperate to build lives together, to create new lives together, and to raise those people to be good and kind. We strive as a society to make our world better, not through competition but through cooperation.

In our society, some people emphasize and promote competition, while others emphasize the power of cooperation. The people who promote competition argue that intense rivalry at work or play, can drive people to either to avoid failure or achieve important victories. But in our society and in the world, cooperation is much more likely to produce more significant  and lasting accomplishments. As has clearly been demonstrated, we see the power of cooperation in every aspect of our lives, whether it be sports, the work place, or our personal lives. Our worlds runs on cooperation and only through cooperation can we succeed as a species. 
