Flashy packages with lackluster content, celebrities losing and gaining weight at a breakneck speed, going under the knife for "just a few tweaks."  Our society has reached a point where images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.

Rapid weight fluctuations are very hard on the heart, the strain it goes through when an actor/artist is revising their body for a role will inevitably take a toll. Take Brendan Fraser for his latest role in "The Whale", the man gained a significant amount of weight and lets be fair, it's going to be hard to lose that all as quickly as it was put on. Or look at Kim Kardashian, her whole persona has been built around her looks and her very particular body style. If you have seen pictures of her recently though, you notice that she looks almost sickly with how thin she has gotten. Not to mention the plastic surgery enhancements that have gone on to make so many people look just like each other. It's sad really.
Research goes into what color packaging will grab consumers attention and then the product breaks in 5 minutes. Maybe some of that marketing budget should be spent on research and developement huh?

I know, I know, some people say "It's their choice on whether they accept the roles actors play and the shaping of features by hands and knives." And it is, it totally is. That doesn't mean it is good for us to consume and emulate those examples that we see. Or even that we should. It's not good for us to brood and meditate on images that are photoshopped and airbrushed and wish we could be them when those people themselves aren't even that way. There are so many individuals trying to contort themselves into this ridiculous little box that society has deemed we all have to fit into and it's gross.

To sum up my stance, I think that images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people yes, and I also think that as consumers, we need to get better at discerning what is accurate and attainable and what is just flashy packaging with no substance. Because lack of substance and quality leaves shit. Shit movies, shit clothes, shit music. Just a bunch of crap. Wait, if all we consume is shit, does that make us dung beetles? nah...more likely just crappy humans.


I've lost track of how many minutes I have left and I don't really know what else to write, plus it has a timer saying "warning, you've been inactive for 2 minutes".  Okay then, I guess I'll just keep typing to pass the time until my 30 minute timer runs out. I hope whoever reads this enjoys the word salad that is this last paragraph. I don't just vebal vomit normally so this is kind of a new experience for me.

