    As humans, being high on the food chain and afforded entirely too much time to reflect, we look within for the source of our happiness. It's as if we understand the world is too vast to just go out and chance upon something that makes us happy, so we must define it first, give it bounds, give it reasons to spring forth. Our survival has depended on being social animals and yet our path to happiness begins with an understanding of self. From this conflict springs a question we must all ask. Is my happiness derived from my own success or from service to others?

    The task of defining happiness, hand in hand with the search for happiness, is entirely a subjective undertaking. We must understand that for each person living on this Earth the answer to that question and the means to that end will be as unique as the individual searching. We can say until we're blue in the face that there is one definitive way to find happiness, but we all already possess the inclination that this is incorrect. Therefore, whether it is more important to focus on the individuals goals or to achieve happiness in the service of others there can only be one logical answer; yes. But a more nuanced answer is that importance will be measured by the individual, and so in some cases one or the other need will prevail. This opens a path to understanding why some individuals in society choose to act in ways that are harmful to society. Those people have chosen their personal goals over the well-being and success of others, whether their own community or not. No person has the ability to control the development of anothers mind, as much as we might try to shape someone's thinking by example, by training, by medication, ultimately, how we come to form as individuals is a uniquely private experience. No one person can ascribe to another what would constitute happiness. At best we can suggest. But when you get to the point of having to force your philosophy on someone else, your very actions harm your ideology. 

    Whether it is more important to find happiness in your self or in service to others, seems a challenging question to answer. Whether it's possible to ascertain one to be better or more effective than the other, also. There is no way we can answer definitively for all human beings, when all human beings have one thing more indelible than anything else. Our uniqueness from one to the other. Which is more likely to make you happy? You tell me. 
