     Happiness is different for everyone and can be found in many different ways. As stated in the prompt, some people find happiness in pursuit of their personal goals to attain their dreams. Other people find happiness in their pursuit to make others happy. I strongly believe that more people find happiness in pursuit of their own goals and dreams. Some reason why I believe this include: building stronger relationships with friends and family during your journey, creating new relationships with people you meet, and not forgetting about yourself and your self care. 

      When you are in pursuit of your own goals you can include your friends and family in your journey. If you choose to pursue your goals and dreams on your own, then it will be a very lonely word. However, if you include your friends and family then you can build much stronger relationships with them and build a lot of memories along the way. For example, if you need to move in order to reach your goal, you could ask your friends to help you. I can gaurentee that you will have some stroies that you can laugh about later. Or if you need advice on what to about your next more to reach your goal you could turn to your parents. I am sure they have a lot of life experience that could help you. For instance if you want to buy a house for the first time your parents could offer advice on what to look at when touring the home. 

     In addition to your current friends and family, you could meet a lot of new people in pursuit of your goals. Odds are these people will have the same goals and interests that you do. This would allow you to build good relationships with them and probably make you happier. Since you are purusing similar goals you could build a strong relationship.

     On the flip side, I believe if you are solely focused on other people's happiness, then you forget about yourself and what you need in life. I have found that people who only concerned about caring for other people tend to forget about themselves and who they are. For example, you might be a stay at home mom and you believe that your happiness comes from your kid's success. So you drive them to and from school every day, help them with their homework, help them study, drive them to and from practice, and so much more. However, since you are only concerned with their success, then you forget about yourself. Eventually you will be so run down and unhappy, that their success will no longer bring you happiness. 

     In conclusion, I believe that people are more likely to be happier if they focus on their own personal goals. If you include others in your pursuit of your goals, then you can build some amazing relationships and memories that will bring you happiness. No one will be happy if they feel completely alone in the world and no one will be happy if they get burnt out and do not care for themselves. Happiness depends on what you do with your life and how you view your life. 
