Imagine yourself driving a brand-new bright red Lamborghini Veneno down an oceanside road in Malibu. The speaker system sounds just right, the leather seats feel like sitting on a cloud, and every stop sign you stop at, people look at you like you must be someone important. Feels good right? And why shouldn't it? You earned that car, you earned that road. You're hard working money is paying off and you are loving every minute of it. And then, just when you are on top of the world, feeling amazing, living life and enjoying the toys that you earned, someone spits on your car. They call you a jerk and judge you for ever even needing it. Modern society is consistantly criticized for being more materialistic than history has ever shown, and that may be true, but I believe that to be wrong. We should not criticize ourselves for being materialistic and in this essay I will show you why.

There are many reasons why some might say that a materialistic society is a bad thing, one of which being: it makes us cocky, it makes us jerks. I disagree. I think that of course there is always a small percent of people in a red Lamborghini Venemo just wanting to show off and show people how much money they have but that is just a small percent. A nice car, purchased with your hard earned money can make you a happier and more positive person. Happier people push out happiness, they are kinder and more of what we need in the world. If a car that you earned makes you feel good, then enjoy it and the world will enjoy your happiness in return. 

Another counterargument might be that being materialistic makes you appreciate thing wrong things, makes you forget about the people and the things that you can't buy. I disagree. I think buying things that are nice and having possessions can show that you know how to appreciate things. It can be a good way to 'practice' taking care of something, having ownership, having accountability before applying that concept to family, friends, lovers. A man who purhcased an oversized tv for his den knows how to value something, knows how to enjoy himself. He takes care of things that matter to him. I think being able to appreciate purchased items and non purchased items are both strong qualities in a person and we should celebrate that not criticize that.

From my experience, I am happier having nice things that I earned. I don't show it off, it doesn't give me a bad attitude, it doesn't make me forget to love my partner any harder, it just plain makes me happier. I am a better person because I am happy to have these things. It is a fact of life. In my opinion, one major reason that people criticize society for being materialistic is because they may be jealous or envious because they do not have that red Lamborghini Veneno but that is not fair. It doesn't mean the person who does have the car is a bad person, it doesn't mean you can't get one too at some point if you don't work hard. Letting go of that envy and being happy for the person and then working towards it yourself is a positive thing for all involved. 

In conclusion, I believe society is criticized too harshly for being materialistic. If we can use being materialistic for good, then we can make a more positive and happier society. If we can appreciate the benefits of owning things we love and taking care of them, then we can embrace that positivity and use it for good. If we don't harbor jealousy and envy for people who have more than us and rather just be happy for those individuals we all would be happier and live in a better society. Society is ever changing, and we are improving everything around us as we go. It is ok to live and enjoy the things that life has to offer us. Criticism of that only brings unwanted negativity. So I say put your foot on the gas and drive!

