Competition or cooperation? That is the question.  Personally, I've always found that cooperation yields better results than competition, but there are of course other schools of thought.

Most people assume that the world today was built by competition.  I argue that it was built by cooperation.  If the rulers cannot get their subjects to cooperate, nothing will get done.  Occasionally the majority has used whatever means necessary to gain cooperation from the minority, including violence, but the end goal is always to get them to adhere to the program those in power have laid out.  

When competition is introduced, it quickly becomes a wasteful process.  What happens to the losers progress?  It's washed down the drain in favor of whomever won the competition and forgotten.  The losers will inevitably feel that their effort was for nothing, and may choose not to participate any further.  However, if everyone involved cooperated on the same project, all progress is saved and even if discarded in the future can be used as lessons for future projects.  With competition, the opposite occurs.  All efforts and material from those who lost is gone, and all lessons from the losers is lost.

I would also argue, that it is competition that has left the world in the state that it is in today.  With the voracious consumption of resources in order to out do the competition, we are quickly stripping away our finite resources with very little to show once complete.  We have come to a point as a society that winning at all cost is celebrated, and even the implication of losing is seen as a failing.  

There are of course times when healthy competition springs forth innovations, but these are usually mistaken as benefitial when they are in fact detrimental.  Take for example the race between the USSR and the USA to get to the moon.  Many have argued that without this competition, nobody would have done it.  This is just plain wrong.  Countless resources were expended on both sides for the exact same goal.  If the two countries had cooperated and shared their knowledge and resources, we could have seen the it as a globally unifying event, rather than "America rules" moment.  Sure, everybody gets that fleeting hit of dopamine, but what is really gained?  We could have a bustling space industry now if we weren't so obsessed with competition.

When I was a kid, I wanted to go to space so badly.  I wanted it more than anything.  That goal seemed obtainable when I was young, now I know that I will never be able to accomplish that goal.  If I happened to excel in literally any other area in life, I might have enough money to make it possible, but unfortunately my stance on cooperation rather than competition left me vulnerable to the win at all costs crowd who will take an easy win any day.

Let's take a look at business.  The constant adversarial stance taken by literally everyone involved in the business world believes in the dog eat dog mentality.  Never do they suspect that they are making the world a hostile place that no sane person would want to live in.  Who wants to even try when you know that any effort on your part will be thwarted by some faceless corporation with deep pockets attempting to build an empire for shareholders benefit.  This is how dreams die.

We need a new system.
