Do people achieve more success by cooperation or competition?

Before we start the debate first we have to understand the definition of succes. Every human being has their own definition. Some define as achieving the goal which was set forth, some define as degree or measure of succeeding which is obtained if we have a desired or favorable outcome or the outcome which is actually anticipated to define as hence achieved. So there is vast list of definition. Hence to cut sort and define " Succes is accomplishing the goals of helping myself and others lead a better happier and healthier life". 

Now coming to the topic, do people achieve success by cooperation or competition? Since there are always two sides of the coin, many people have different opinion. First we shall see success achieved by cooperation. There is a famous aying Espirit de Corps- which means unity is strength. There are many people who are Individual contributor and team contributor. Those who contribute with themselves and act as an Individual contributor, they rely solely upon themselves and themselves only. But those who work collabratively within the team and achieve the desired goal, it is counted a teams goal rather than the individual goal because it was because of the team in toto they would have achieved the desired goal or success. That achieving the succes feeling i altogether at different level because you would have contributed a lot inb that succes journey. So we say that i was collborative effort of the team and without the cooperation of the team succe wouldn't have been achieved. Since all are running in the ame line for the ame goal but not individually together in one big chain to achieve the success.

Now coming to the next part or the other side of the coin. Achieving success by competition. Someone likely said that competition is must in everyones life. It is through competition, one is active and alert. Having said that it should be a healthy one and not personal. At the end of the term, one has to accept that whatever may be the reult one will loose and the other will win. Competition brings out the best in a person, hence in order to achieve the same he /she strives for more and more and gives his/her the best possible way or put forward the best posible step so that success is achieved. Competition creates a sense of motivation to reacha specific goal with much attentiveness and much alertness. Also we need to understand that competition need not be always winning yes the ultimate goal is to be successful but its also about you getting better at what you do and what you achieve at the end of the session. Competition is necesary also because it will keep one motivated to achieve the required organizational goal. 

So now I would like to conclude the topic by saying that people achieve more succe by cooperation or by competition is quite debateful. Hence it is the effect of the surrounding you are working in to decide whether the succes has come on the grounds cooperation or by competition. So we must alway remember that achieveing the desired goal is most important. Going with the policies and rules and regulation of the company is very important hence which will determine the mode of achieving success whether it has been in with the assistance of the team or by competition within the team. Since we know that coins has two sides and neither one can be predicted but in case of success one can't determine that at what cot is it coming. Is it by the help of the team (cooperation ) or by steep competition within the team. Both the aspects hold the ame weightage and can be agrued till day lasts as one view can be collaborative but not all the views. So what matters the most is success or reaching the deired goal for which one whould have strived for either by working in the team or by the way of competition within the team. 
