Happiness is a very subjective principle. Are we more likely to feel happiness when we focus on ourselves or on others? I believe that this is something that fluctuates with what is most important to us at the time. Let's say that we are in the process of trying to move up the ladder in our job. We are trying to impress our boss with our capability and knowledge of our job so that we might be considered for a promotion. This would make us happy as it would provide a path to greater security for our family and ourselves. Our efforts paid off! We were promoted along with a substantial salary increase and a new, more prestigious title. Our happiness is something tangible, something we can feel, experience and cannot wait to share with others. That day I am happiest focusing on my personal growth and the outcomes I have achieved. 

That night, still happy from the day, I went home to share this news with my family. When we sat down to dinner a discussion ensued regarding a young boy in our child's class at school. It seems that he was very embarrassed today as other kids made fun of him for wearing the same outfit to school each day. Our child said that this made him very sad as the boy was his friend. Our child said that his friend shared with him that his mom had to work, his dad had died, and they had no money for new clothes so he wore what he had and his mom made sure to wash the outfit every night so that he looked nice the next day. My news seemed insignifcant at that point, my happiness had faded due to the concern on my child's face. 

I asked my child what he would like to do, how can we help his friend? He said " I want to give him new clothes". That touched my heart. I suggested that we speak to the teacher and see if we could organize a fund raiser for his friend, or get some donations from other families to help him and his mom out. The smile on his face was opinion enough. We would speak to the teacher in the morning and see what we could organize together. We did this with great success. Clothing was donated, money was raised and the boy and his mom could live a little better because of my child's concern for a friend. This was happiness multiplied to an extent that was magical. I felt happy because I helped a family, my own child, and added to the happiness of the children and families who knew the good they had done for another. This was an example of the warmth of happiness achieved by helping other. 

I believe that happiness is subjective. Does it really matter if we attain happiness by our own achievements or by  that of helping others in need? Both paths result in the same goal. Happiness earned by helping others is most likely more rewarding in a spiritual way. Happiness earned through achieving our goals is wonderful and rewarding as well as satisfying to our own self-worth. Which is better? It's a debate that is best won in the moment that it occurs. 

