You sit in a house surrounded by things, and yet still find yourself feeling unsatisfied. There's always something else that you feel like, "If I could just have this one thing, then my life would be complete." The thing could be a particular phone or brand of car or even a particular brand of tshirt. This dissatisfaction often stems from materialism, and is something many modern societies should be criticized for. 

In modern society, we should be criticized for our rampant materialism. More and more in society, people have started to value possessions over others. The fast fashion industry is a prime example of this. What is considered to be "in style" constantly changes, and the average person struggles to keep up with the popular trends. I myself purchsed two pairs of pants yesterday that I would have worn in high school, but would not have been caught dead in a few years ago because of the changing styles of the day and the pressure I feel to keep up with them. Will I be wearing those same pants in another decade? Probably not. In part because I bought a cheap brand that probably won't last, but also because the style of pants that are acceptable to wear will once again change. But I had to have them to seem "stylish" to my peers and even strangers I will pass on the street. 

The big problem is that I am not alone in my behavior. Every day people scroll through listicles filled with products that promise to improve their home, their appearance, and their life experiences. If we just have those items, our house will seem cozier or more on trend because of our new bedding, we'll seem more attractive to others in our new shoes or new makeup, or our vacation experiences will be complete because we have the perfect neck pillow for our flight. We buy all of these products believing in their fulfillment of some intangible desire, just to throw them away. And their ultimate cost is far more than the $17.99 we paid Amazon. We buy these things at the exploitation our planet and those less fortunate than us. 

Very few things are made in the United States anymore. And while some cry for factory work to come back and bring jobs with it, that is never going to happen. Because we can exploit the poor living conditions of those in other countries to keep our own costs low. The people responsible for making our $5 t-shirts from Target get paid pennies on the profit the corporation makes selling it to us. Because they can pay workers in other countries a small fraction of what they would need to pay someone in the United States. People in India, China, Cambodia, etc., live and work in squalor so that that tshirt that we buy in every color only costs us $5. And then we take it home and stuff it in a drawer often times full of nearly identical tshirts that we bought just last year. 

300 years ago, anying from China would have cost more than the average worker made in an entire year because of the cost to bring it back to the Western world. But now it's more cost effective to exploit workers overseas and ship our clothes, books, houseware, technology, etc. to us instead of making those products ourselves. And we don't just exploit others, we also harm our environment. Amazon vans crisscross cities daily to fulfill its promised 2 day delivery. Planes fill our skies full of products, not people, and boats cross our oceans. All producing exhaust gasses that harm our atmosphere and slowly make our planet less hospitable to life on earth. 

It's true that we have a quality of life now that our forefathers never dreamed of. Our ancestors would be amazed by the way we can just go to a store and buy whatever article of clothing we're looking for. That we don't have to produce all of our own food. That we can communicate with anyone almost anywhere on the planet. And none of these things are inherently bad. But we have taken them to such an extreme that we're doing irreprable harm to our planet and those less fortunate than us in a way that ultimately leaves us feeling more and more dissatsfied with our lives instead of being grateful for all of the opportunities and advantages that comes from it.  
