Since human beings appeared on Earth, once basic needs were satisfied, they tried to find ways that made their own existence happy. This pursuit of happiness has taken many directions and forms throughout history, but in the end it comes down to this: are humans happy when they can make other people happy? Or is their life happy when they manage to make their dreams come true? I believe a person cannot be happy if they are not satisfied in their personal life and is not working to fullfill their dreams or aspirations.

Everyone has a dream or a goal in life and working towards that goal makes you feel alive. When you overcome an obstacle and are getting closer to making that goal a reality, you are consecuently a happier person because your life has a direction. 
Following your aspirations means to know what you want to be and what you want to became. Once you reach that goal or you are working towards that goal, you are feeling good about yourself and this should make happy the people around you because you are becoming the best version of yourself.
On the other hand, some people might observe that thinking exclusively about our own happiness is a selfish behaviour. When we look for happiness, we should work towards something that makes a whole community happy.If we only think about what makes us happy without considering the people or loved ones around us, this cannot really make us happy in the end because one could wonder: how can we be happy if people around us are not? How can i be happy if my brother or sister is not?
I would answer to that question by pointing out how  it would be possible to make other people happy if we do not know how happiness feels like: it would be like teaching  a skill that we do not master. If we do not have a happiness we cannot spread happiness.

To conclude, I believe that looking for our own happiness is not a selfish behavior but it is a right for every person. Once you have a goal, a direction in life, you are walking the road to happiness.
