A man stumbles as he finally finds civilization after being lost in the desert for the last three days. What he finds is an osais, filled to the brim with water of which he is desperate to drink. This man has not had a drink of water in the last three days. So as the man walks up to a flowing waterfall of pure drinking water, he is elated. He's been saved. The man goes to take the drink of water and finds no water. Everything he saw was a mirage, an image, an impression, things that was nothing real. In this essay, I will argue that the way humans perceive images and impressions have far too much impact on people. I will argue that this impact is one that fundamentally changes our perceptions on reality causing people to believe that unreal things are real. In doing so, I will look to two major forms of this type of deception. The first of which are human dreams and desires, which is the human mind generating images and impressions of things that are not real. The second form of deception is consumerism through advertisements. The goal of consumerism, I will argue, is the direct targeting of false images and impressions on people for the purpose of profit. 

Young Timmy goes to sleep after playing catch in the back yard with his dad. He dreams of one day being a Major League Baseball player. He dreams of the fame, the excitement and being the best in the world. Young Timmy, sadly, will not grow up to be a world-class athlete. Not many people will. Hopefully, Young Timmy realizes the uselessness of his dream and lets the dream go as a pipedream. At worst however, Young Timmy may spend countless hours slaving away in pursuit of a goal which he can never accomplish, irrecovably ruining his future and prospects. The story of Young Timmy and his choices illustrate how the human mind produces images and impressions that have a long-lasting impact on human beings for the entirity of their lives. The images and impressions produced by the human mind and its desires casused Young Timmy to act in a way that he never would have chosen to act otherwise as a rational actor. The human mind, its desires and dreams implants images and impressions that are so powerful that they can change the course of a human's life and everything that happens to them in the future. 

The stated goal of every publically owned corporation is profit for its shareholders at any and all cost. In the case of casinos, this cost can be seen in the poor and destitute it leaves in its wake. In the case of clothing manufacturers, this can be seen in the third-world sweatshops, where women and children work many hours a day for pay well below the global poverty line. In the case of consumer goods, it is the deception of consumers for the purpose of maximising profits and sales. Each of examples presents the goal of profit through cosumerism as the driving force behind the implementation of false images and impressions that cause human beings to act in ways that they otherwise wouldn't had the images and impressions they've been presented been accurate. 

So what? One might ask. Why is it bad that the impressions and images presented to people, either by their own minds or by corporations, are false? In fact, in some cases, pleasurable images and impressions through consumer goods or gambling or childhood dreams can improve a person's life as opposed to leading to its ruin. While I concede that not all images and impressions ultimately result in bad outcomes when looked at from a ultility persepctive. A very small percentage of advantage gamblers and professional atheletes with childhood dreams are proof of this. However, my core argument rests on the fact that had human beings had a chosen between not having false images and impressions implanted into their minds and choosing to have those beliefs implanted into their minds, I argue that human beings would act as rational actors and choose to see the world as it actually is as opposed to how the world is percieved through deceptive images and impressions.

In conclusion, I've argued that the false images and impressions humans are powerless to avoid causes human beings to act in a way that an otherwise rational actor would not choose to act. If human beings were able to choose to not experience and see false images and impressions as shown to them through their dreams, desires and through corporations, I conclude that human beings would choose reality instead. Proving that false images and impressions have far too much of an impact on people -- that impact being a false sense of reality itself.
