Images do have far too great an effect on people. For people who are sighted, we see images all day every day. We see images which look real, but may have been manipulated. We buy products that we cannot see, which are hidden within a box that has an image of the product on the outside. To survive in the world, we must trust what we see. Therefore, it is very easy for wrongdoers to manipulate images in order to manipulate the people who see them.

Modern humans have lived on the earth for nearly 200,000 years. The oldest art is perhaps 25,000 years old. Photography is less than 200 years old. Humans throughout history have survived by looking at the world around them and believing what they see. That this is no longer true in the modern world does not change that it is part of our essential nature to accept what we see as real.

It is possible to see a created image and assume that it is not real. However, this takes time, conscious thought, and most importantly energy. It is a drain on the mind and detracts from truly living in the present moment. Psychologists tell us that mindfulness is a key component of happiness. Living in distrust of the world around oneself is not conducive to living a happy life. So if you must question the truth of all the thousands of images you see every day, you will not be living your happiest life. However, if you do choose to simply accept that everything you see is true, you can end up trapped in a world of lies, where the choices you made based on the images you see do not reflect your values and goals.

Perhaps the question is what is too much of an effect. It would be incredibly difficult to live one's life today without coming into contact with images created to decieve. Is any choice made due to a deceptive image too much to accept? People have undoubtedly been making stupid choices for 200,000 years, before there were any images to decieve them. The images that we see now, the photographs, the films, the movies, and television let us know what is happening in the world around us. They let us know things that we would otherwise never have known. However, we are far too innudated with images today. People should pay more attention to the world and recognize that images are the equivelent of someone talking to them. You must decide who the image is coming from and if you trust them. It is hard to realize that we are so wired to trust images and that this source of so much joy and beauty can be used against us and our interests. We must learn to distinguish between our seeing of the real world around us and the images others have created. 
