Images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people and are able to not only mislead them, but give them information that isn't even based on reality. 

I believe that people easily get wrong impressions about things, and believe wrong information because of the medium the information is given through, and due to the fact that they trust and believe in the mode of delivery. When you see an ad on tv, it puts the product in the best light, shows an amazing burger for instance, if its for a fast food restaurant. Its big, its juicy, the tomatoes are ripe, its still sizzling from the grill. But when you go to purchase this burger, what you get isn't what you saw in the ad. It ends up being flat, wrapped in paper, not sizzling, the lettuice is limp and the tomato isn't even red. The ad ended up giving a false impression, and what a let-down, when reality doesn't match what you expected. I think this happens often with ads on tv or online. What you get isn't as good as how it appeared in the flashy ad full of praise and positive expectations. People also put too much trust in their tv and give too much attention to the ads that they see during every program. 

Ads can be helpful and give you information about products you might not have heard of. They can also make you aware of things you migh need, or may help you live your life in a better, more productive way. But often these ads, while attention grabbing and seemingly helpful, are sponsored by businesses and created by them to sell products. That's their main aim. They may be things that you can use and will make your life better, but the main goal of these ads is to sell. They aren't made out of the goodness of a company's heart to help you. They are made to persuade and to get you to buy the product. So ads can be good and informative,  but they are made to increase the company's bottom line. 

I have seen many ads on tv. And I have seen many clever ones that catch your attention and do actually make you think. The superbowl is an example of this, and companies go out of their way, and pay a hefty price to create them to capture your attention and prove a point. But in the end they are just subtle marketing tools to put ideas in your head and make you think their product will be the one to solve all of your problems and make everything better. Its a little frustrating that these images and things we see have so much power over how we might think about a product and what we associate with it. Its something to think about. And people need to be aware of this, so they can counteract the way these images and impressions are used,  and not be drawn in to be taken advantage of by them. 
