Well, in terms of my own experience, I would have to aggree that a key factor to my own happiness in life has been through helping others. While it's true that there are many other factors that influence personal happiness, I have found that it's not really complete unless I've done what I can to help others. For me though, others doesn't really mean other humans as much as it means trying to help animals. I have found in my later life that mitigating the suffering of creatures that don't have control over their own destinies has become a passion and a daily routine. 

I think that to explain being happy or fulfilled means to talk about what makes us feel complete. So, although I think of my work or what I do for a living as a prime component of feeling fulfilled, I think that the balance of happiness lies in also assuring that those around me are okay as well. And, while it is good to help other humans, I find that the beings that need the most help, are animals. They are often exploited and by sheer strength, overcome by either human exploitation and cruelty or neglect. For instance, farm animals in modern industry are often tortured, literally through whole lifetims where they are then beaten, stomped on dragged, hit, etc in the course of daily life and then slaughter. These animals have no real legal rights and big money hides what's happening to them for the sake of profit. I believe that it is incumbent upon people who know about this, to do everything possible to stop it. For me, this is the only way I can feel anything close to being happy. Because even if I have the perfect job, for me being a film maker, I will alway know that these animals are suffering and not feel at rest until I help in some way. Another example of being fulfilled for me and at rest in happiness is taking responsibility for the feral and community cats in my complex. I and others try to feed and care for them as best we can because we know that humans have domesticated them, thus making them dependent, and these that are abandoned or feral have no real resources but us. Yes, they can hunt, but this skill has died out on a functional level since we've domesticated them. Assuring that they are okay every day helps me to feel ok when I go to bed each night.

I think of this kind of true, complete happiness as one that may be different for others, but is always dependent on this balance between self personal fulfillment and seeing that the world is "right". We have a bond with others, be they human or animal, and many of us feel the ethical pull on our conscious to do what is right. If we have injustices on the periphery of our fields of vision, our state of contentment is disturbed.

So, in terms of my personal experience and what I've seen some evidence of in others, truly being happy means not only being happy because of the things we have or are doing for ourselves, but also feeling like others around us are okay as well. While not all others would agree with this, I think many, who are aware of what is happening in the world, do feel similarly because they are bothered by seeing others unhappy while being ok themselves. I therefore think that there's a fine balance to the question of whether we are happy in the pursuit of our own goals or the happiness of others. For me, at least, the two are interdependent in establishing true, lasting happiness and completion as a human being.
