Iphones. Teslas. Gucci. It's no secret that society loves name brand items. As time has advanced, it is clear that technology has played a critical role in modern society becoming very materialistic. Social media and the rise of technology has certainly geared modern society toward consumers spending money on flashy items or experiences, altering thought processes along the way.

The rise of social media has greatly influenced materialism. Think about it, 10 years ago, the word social media influencer was not even in existence or thought of. Today, it is so difficult to log onto Instagram, or any social media platform for that matter, and not see flashy, new products being flaunted on the latest iPhone or new, advanced computer. Corporations are paying their followers to advertise their brands or products., which in turn has a lightning effect across the target audience consuming this media. Social media sites such as YouTube, allow corporations to reach their target audiences by watching videos (with ads embedded inbetween) to persuade the audience how incredible or amazing their products are. This in turn causes society to purchase to keep up with the latest trend.

Technology is also a huge influence of materialism. Children in schools today are now working off of iPads and iPhones, instead of papers and pencils. WiFi is now a common household name in and out of the classroom. It is not uncommon to hear conversations between friends about who has the latest iPhone. Friends will even joke between others about how outdated and old their phones are. Having the latest car or the latest technological device has become the new social norm.

To conclude, modern society today is much more materialistic than in the past, and should be criticized for this. Though not totally the fault of society, the advancement of technology has only aided in gearing society to become more materialistic and having a trickle down impact. Having the latest phone or the flashiest car has replaced the modern society's values of having a stable job and building a family.
