     Society is obsessed with materialism.  Much of this is driven by what we are exposed to everyday.  We receive a constant barrage of images, messages, advertisements and other queues that tell us that suceess is measured by what we own.  From the time we wake up, to the time we go to bed, we are exposed to materialism on social media, on television, on billboards, in public spaces, on the radio.  How can anyone in modern society be blamed or criticized for being materialisitc?  You can't and that is the reality we live in.
     From an early age, we learn that those who have the most things are the happiest in life.  As babies and young children, we quickly learn that having more toys equates to having more fun.  As we get older, and we enter school, we are exposed to classmates and are conditioned to understand that those that have the most crayons and best school supplies are the best.  Continuing on, as a child progresses through grade, middle and highschool, they learn that having the nicest footwear, clothes, book bags, and sports equipment equals being poplular.  This same pattern continues in college and through adulthood as one is constantly reminded by what they see that those that have the most things are the happiest.  
     In our daily lifes, we see advertisements for products, some that we can afford and some that we cannot.  The advertisements however are always similar in terms of showing individuals owning products that are extremely happy and able to experience good times by themselves and with others.  These advertisements lead us to believe that happiness is created by ownership of products.  We are exposed to commercials on television and social media that portray people in various states of happiness as a result of owning or consuming a product. 
     We are constantly comparing ourselves to friends, family, strangers, and others who have more or less things than we do.  We consider ourselves happier and more succesful when we have more things than others, and vice-versa, consider ourselves less happy when we have less possessions.  This happens in all walks of life, including daily trips to work, vacations, running errands, socializing in the neighborhood, attending children's sporting events, going out to dinner, etc.
     In summary, materialism is not something to be criticized, it is a way of life and either you accept it and become part of mainstream modern society, or you reject it and become a member of fringe society.   Those that are not concerned with materialism and ownership of things are also probably not interested in being a member of modern society.    We should all appreciate those things that we have and continuously strive to improve upon them.  As Cindy Lauper once said, "we live in a material world".

