     The supposition that greater success is achieved through cooperation rather than competition is based on the assumption that what is good for the society at large is preferable to an individual attaining profound levels of achievement. It is individuals who comprise a society and therefore a person reaching new heights benefits those who through lack of will power or natural gifts could not rise to that level.
     Most people are common. The average IQ is barely above 100. What tremendous strides in the sciences and arts would have come about if the truly gifted were not allowed to dare. To strive. What movements in art would the world be denied had Basquiat not brazenly entered the art world. Had Salk not faced polio head on. Ford not implemented mass production. Innovation stems from courage. Courage involves facing your shortcomings as well as strengths. Often involves painful defeats before success. Competition allows the individual to define the self in a way that cooperation does not. Everyone going with the flow does not lead to innovation. It is stagnation.
A utopian world in which everyone gets a trophy would yield no betterment. Countless societies have tried forms of collectivism without significant gains for the larger world. Some say it is unhealthy to force our children to be at opposition with their peers. They learn where they begin and end. Not every kid can throw a 40 yard touchdown or comprehend erudite philosophical maxims. The key is to find one's niche and embrace it. A contented life is a purposeful one. Removing competition may save a few bruised egos but it denies the excellence of individuality to prosper. Even in Cuba, a society which espoused a communist form of government there exists the world reknowned Cuban Opera. The divas who shine are the antithesis of what we commonly think of in regards to such societies.
    In closing it is through competition that one discovers talents held and is able to hone those talents into gifts which benefit others. In other words in a world filled with fake reality televesion stars be a Howard Roarke insted of a Kardashian.
