Do you know what drives the most successful people in the world? How they got there? How they live the life they do? They only needed one thing to motovate them, competition.
Competition is something that drives you to do better, to be better, to get the best outcomes. It lets your failures become your motovation. Something I think we all need more of in this complex world. To drive ourselves to be the best we can be, to achieve the best outcomes possible, not only for ourselves but for the world.
I believe that without competition we would just go about our daily lives and do things in a lazy way or boring way, because there would be no one better at the job or game. Everything would be mediocore, nothing amazing. It would be very boring, with very little entertainment. Think about professional sports, like Football. There are so many amazing talented athletes, who have worked so hard their whole life to get where they are now. To be the fastest, the biggest, the strongest, but, there is always someone younger and faster. They strive off of competition to be the best. Competiton against other teams to be the best at the sport. Competition against teammates as well, to work harder together to beat the other teams. They are some of the most successful people in the world. They are successful from competition.
You could say that competition is not what drives people, but that they use cooperation instead. Every one in society needs to cooperate with one another to get jobs done and keep making the way of life we live attainable and enjoyable. I think its safe to say that some people would prefer every one to just cooperate together to live a more simple life, and that is fine. But, in a way you are still competiting, to grow the best garden, to have the most self sustaining home. They are still competiting with one another whether they realize it or not. Not every one wants the more simple way of life and believe that you need to work hard in life. Same with professional sports, they have to cooperate with each other as a team to win the game, but they are competiting against another team to be the best.
So, I would say that you really do need competition in any aspect of life to be successful. To get what you want. To be where you want. To live how you want. You have one life, you need to compete. 
