Happiness comes from within. As a species, humans are only truly happy when helping one another. All of the evils of the world can be traced only to the loss of this key component of human nature. People are distracted by modern technology, capitalsim, and religion.
Religion is often perverted by people of power to manipulate the less fortunate.

When distractions are reduced, and people are able to react to their own gut instinct, they will then naturally focus on the improvement of humanity. Desperate people behave differently than secure people. What we need are fewer desperate people. How do we create fewer desperate people? Allow everyone equal opportunity. For real, not just the super wealthy...but everyone. You will then find that people are able and willing to focus on the improvement of humanity, not just oneself.

Happiness, true happiness will likely never be found within a capitalist society. Because within a capitalist society, the top ten perecent will always find a way to capitalize at the expense of the lower ninety percent. This not only creates misery for lower ninety percent. Those in the top ten are living in a way that harms the majority of the population. At some level, these individuals are unhappy. People are social creatures. Pack animals. We have evolved to watch out for one another. Explotation is wrong, even when it is done for profit. A person's natural instinct is to focus as a group, not as an individual. Only despirate creatures or solitary creatures behave that way. There is nothing wrong with having personal goals and dreams, as long as they benefit more than just oneself.

To wrap it up:
People will never be happy if they only focus on themselves. We are part of a human family. All of us. Not just the wealthy. Not just your own "nuclear family." All of us, the world over are one family. Happiness will not be found "along the way" unless changes to the human experience are made. The natural state of humans requires that we include the happiness of others in our own equations. 
I finished my essay early. Apologies for the inactivity. This really was an overly generous time limit for such a short assignment. Self centered people are never completely happy. We are part of a group, not solitary.
