Critizing modern society for being materialistic is like criticizing water for being wet--it represents a complete misunderstanding of modern society and has the potential to cause more harm than good. In this essay, I will argue that modern society should not be critized for being materialistic. I will discuss maternalism's positive impact on society and some of the assumptions underlying criticizisms of materalism, which are in fact, very problematic.

There are three positive aspects of materialism: it's a reflection of society, it leads to innovation, and it uplifts people. First, materalism reflects the structures within our economy and society, and is a fundamental component of society. In a modern (or even postmodern) society, the ability to produce and consume goods are highly respected goals. This can be evidenced among political parties in modern society. Regardless of their political ideology, criticism of maternalism is rarely a major party platform. Politically, it is taken as a given, like the air that we breath. Political parties, at least viable ones, may suggest modifying aspects of materialism, but never to the extreme that it should be abolished. The second positive aspect is that maternalism spurrs innovation. Production and consumption requires large numbers of people to innovate different aspects of these experiences--from manufacturing, to storing, and even recycling products consume. Materalism allows anyone to be engaged in this process due to its utiquitness in society. Finally, maternalism gives people access to resources and materials that prior generations could not even dream of. Whether it is the ability to access educational materials from anywhere in the world, at any time or the ability to use material goods to improve one's self in any way possible--from developing friendships to learning how to care for a pet rabbit. In addition, possessing these resources is relatively inexpensive due to their mass production. This awesome ability would not be otherwise available without society's materialistic tendencies.

Critics of materialism concerns often lie on two untested assumptions--that materialism makes our lives (and society) too complex and that someone needs to step in to end it. The first argument is often based on the desire to return society to more 'simplistic' or carefree times when materialism was not rampant. However, trying to reservse the clock both ignores the problems of past societies, but it also puts us at a disadvantage for being able to solve society's problems. Our society is not only complex, but very large and encompasses hundreds of millions of people, including many with disabilities, disorders, and other conditions that require constant care and support. Moving societies so large and with so many different needs to something "simplier" is not possible and would lead to widespread disaster on a monumental scale. Only through materialism can we harness the innovation and production levels to solve major issues that we as a society deal with including global warning, poverty, and nutritional security. Second, critics of materials also make the assumption that someone needs to step in to stop materialism--that it is out of control and someone needs to fix it. Yet, materialism is based on the demands of society. Materialism is not forced on anyone--no one is forced to consume video games or by a luxery car. It is all a choice that people within a modern society make every single day. Critics of materialism seem to assume that some outside force, while any army or laws can stop materialism. However, they are never upfront that people have choosen and continue to chose materialism, and forcing them to stop would tear society apart.

In closing, this essay has attempted to explain why modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic and why the critics of materialism are misguided. Materialism and modern society are so entertwined here in the 21st century that any attempts to untangle them would lead to disaster. Criticizing one would be as dumpt as criticizing water for being wet.
