People have been attempting to define what constitutes 
"happiness" and what is most likely to make us happy for centuries.  The debates rages on whether we're more likely to be happy focusing on ourselves or on others....

I personally have found that a mix of the two is what makes me more happy. Concentrating solely on my own happiness seems more than a bit self-centered (in my opinion), but concentrating solely on the happiness of others can cause resentment which isnt healthy. I feel that achieving my happiness is intertwined with the happiness of my family and friends. The old adage "happy wife, happy life" is somewhat applicable as long as the spouse doesn't ignore their own needs.  

Making my friends and family happy is one of the joys of life, but it can be done without sacrificing my own happiness. For example, let's say I'm able to get tickets to an event that myself, family and friends are dying to see. That achieves happiness for me as well as my family and friends. But I wouldn't want to be the one always making the "grand"gesture of getting tickets because that would eventually make me feel taken for granted. Family and friends can chip in or pay for the tickets themselves. "It's the thought that counts" only goes so far in making sure I don't feel my generosity is taken for granted.

Playing devil's advocate, what happens if I concentrate only on achieving my happiness? It's great , everything you do and say is to achieve your own happiness.  I could go on that way indefinitely with no ill effects as long as my family and friends acquiesce and don't get upset with me. Some people live their entire lives that way .  The flip side is devoting yourself entirely to the happiness of friends and family, with no regard for your own happiness. I went through a time when I did  this. It made me feel really good about myself, how unselfish and caring I was. But both these behaviors are extremes.....

In my opinion a mix of obtaining my happiness and that of others is best, Being a self-centered person usually comes at the expense of others, as does being a doormat (which comes at my expense). Looking out for others' happiness is necessary for my happiness, seeing those I care about happy gives me a warm feeling. Conversely they enjoy making me happy, so the relationship is symbiotic. Maturity has brought the realization that both extremes are necessary 




