      Competition is highly valued in modern culture. From the "rise to the top" mindset adopted by many looking to climb up the corporate ladder, to the way Olympic athletes are praised for earning a gold medal, victory is achieved by differentiating yourself from the masses. However, modern society seems to forget that we only exist today because of our social ancestors. Ancient people, living in family groups, cooperated for survival. Even civilizations cannot survive without the cooperation of many people of different skillsets. The cooperation of farmers, truck drivers, airlines and grocery stores is needed in order to feed an entire country. To educate us, the cooperation of both research and teachers from multiple fields and backgrounds is needed as well. Even within families, cooperation helps keep a household stable and afloat. A nation's military relies on the cooperation and obedience of many men and women, all fighting toward a common goal. For these many reasons, it is actually cooperation that produces success. Cooperation is critical to success in both a person's private and public life.
      From a person's first days, cooperation is essential. Parents, caregivers, and medical staff all work together to ensure a child is healthy and growing well. As children, we learn how to properly interact with others. Proper social skills and sharing are important parts of a child's life. Children are scolded and punished for being selfish and problematic. Clearly, if cooperation was not important, schools would not emphasize this. In school, children are meant to work together as equals. This mindset also extends to youth sports, where teamwork is the key to victory. It doesn't matter if one child is truly a better athlete than the rest, because he cannot beat an entire team of opponents on his own. This is highlighted in the common saying "there's no 'I' in team". Early in life, we are taught that cooperation is critical to a happy life and bright future.
       As adults, most people will start low in terms of power at work. At the entry-level, we must work with our colleagues to meet goals set by our bosses. An uncooperative employee often becomes an ex-employee. It is only on the higher rungs of the career ladder that less cooperation is even fathomable. This can be seen as the supervisor or boss who seems "out to get everyone". These types of people are often unpopular as well. So, in terms of social success, it may appear that their level of achievement is quite low.
     Some people may argue that it's still possible to succeed through competition alone. They may cite examples of famous athletes, artists, musicians, writers, or other celebrities who came out on top. And yes, while it is true that there are some instances where competing is the only way to thrive, those instances are still much less common than they think. In daily life, cooperation is still key. A person who ignores traffic signals to reach the next street the fastest puts others at risk, including themselves. Competitive gamers can certainly be successful and wealthy, but their type of lifestyle can be seen by others as "taking the fun out of the game". People who compete may be outwardly successful, but at what cost? Fierce competition comes with much more stress and pressure than cooperation. 
     In short, cooperation is the key to true success. Without cooperation, modern society would not exist. Humans are often selfish, but we know deep down that sometimes considering the needs of others is what is best for all of us. That is why people adhere to laws and social norms. It is what makes life in a civilization run more smoothly. Modern issues, from treating diseases to even climate change, cannot be solved without cooperation from many people. It was a team that took people to the moon, not a solo astronaut. Only by combining knowledge and strength can people truly succeed.
