What we think we see is often not reality. Images and appearances can be appeaing and beautiful to the eye and can creae a lasting impression.  However this impression can be false and misleading sometimes with detrimental results.

In this age of technology, there exists many ways of manipulating images and appearances to cast a favorable impression of an item or a person. This leads to false beliefs that have no actual basis in truth. These are false impressions created by either misleading or "pretty packaging" which can apply to both products and even people.

A common example is food that is packaged with pictures depicting a tasty, appetizing meal that can be made using the product inside. However the actual product is uncooked and needs many steps or added ingredients to become the pictured result. The consumer only sees the finished product on the package and is led to believe that is what they are buying.  While most consumers can rationally process the fact that most products are not exactly as picutred, it is easier for most just to look at the package and believe that is the product inside.

The same thing can occur in the media where "prettier' people are thought to be more capable. For example, the most popular news anchors and actors are typically more attractive and make more money. 
Humans are attracted to beauty and innately believe that one with this trait is also more capable. The media capitalizes on this and uses more attractive people to lure watchers.
One could also say that there are unattractive actors and media personalitites, but the most popular in the field are typically on the better looking side.  If one were just to judge someone based on looks, this  is probably not bad in most cases as eventually the true side of someone will come out. In the case of political figures this could be detrmental if judgment was baseed on appearance rather than actual capability.  Once the truc character were revealed, it would be too late to change a vote for this person. In cases of people it is more important to look beyond the "packaging".

In conclusion, it seems that overall people can be misled by images and shallow impressions to believe certain things about items and people that may not necessarily be true.  This can be minimal or detrimental depending on what the circumstance is. Therefore it is always important to think beyond the "pretty face" and consider what really lies beneath.
