Does images and impression have too much of an effect on people?  There is so much in the world today weather its what job you have, or how you dress , down to what kind of car you drive. Everybody seems to care too much about what others think of them to the point they sometimes end up going down hill in the proccess. Me on the other hand im not so concered on images and impressions because i have other things in life to worry with. I hvae alot of opions in this topic but ill narrow it down to a few.
           People care so much about how they look for other people to the point they end up spending more more on unneccary things. They go buy named brand clothes to fit in with a group of friends or to look like they have life all together to their families. Why do they care? Ill tell you they care because other people in the world seem to always have opinions or negativity toward others. People are hoping if they look nice or fit in more that they may be acceppted and not talked about. When in reality no matter what you do and how you look someone is out there to down you and talk about you daily. Then there's the whole what you drive tells who you are!
        Everyone out here has to have new cars and pay all theis money and sometimes end up in debt. All just so they can fit in to todays society, to me it's crazy. To others its just normal day life because thats how this would is now. Me i would'nt want the payments of a newer car and how it looks doesnt matter. Yes sometimes driving a junk car like i have now is a tad embarressing but its how i have to get around,  People laugh at the car and judge me on what i drive but i have to remind myself daily that i want always have to live this way and what others think doesnt matter because their not having to drive it. The world is changing daily and its sad to me that we have to look good and have nice things just to fit in .
        So YES images and impressions do have to much effect on people in todays world. Can we change that? Prouble not, So we basically have to keep living and try our best to fit in with the world in order to make it anywhere in life. We have to buy these exspensive clothes and high priced nice cars, live in these fancy over the top homes. We have to keep up with the appearance to make sure we can make it in this world. Cover who you are to Keep up with the world till we lose who we really are! Sad but True.

