Materialism is an aspect of modern society that encompasses the consumeristic tendencies of people in primarily industrialized nations. The reality is that people spend much of their time and energy pursuing the means to purchase more possessions, and the rest of their time is typically spent on actually purchasing and using those objects. On those terms, materialism is often criticized for its reduction of modern life to mere robotic and meaningless behaviors that extend no further than surface-level indulgences. 

Materialism does warrant the criticism it receives for many reasons, not the least of which is the exploitation that often accompanies the endless requirement for new things to sell and the resulting pursuit for enough money to buy those new things. Exploitation is not limited to workplace abuse, but also extends to environmental issues. Society's increasing concern with acquiring man-made objects that are often easily and necessarily replaceable leaves little consideration for the consequences of such unsustainable behaviors on the natural world. 

In defense of materialism, it is often argued that traditional ideals of naturalism and a return to simpler times is a fiction that simply isn't shared by the majority of people. If humanity is in a period of materialistic obsession, perhaps it should be allowed to move through that period in its own time. After all, social values will inevitably change again, as they always have in the past. However, this argument does not fully appreciate the extent of materialism's impact on humanity and the natural world. Too much emphasis on material objects simply doesn't leave enough room for human empathy (since people are more often used as a means to an end), doesn't recognize any inherent value in natural objects, and turns itself into a devastating cycle of doing exhausting work to get enough money to buy something that temporarily distracts from the state of the world and one's own exhaustion. Rather than hiding from uncomfortable issues inside the pleasure of buying the newest phone or upgrading one's car, perhaps a return to spiritual actualization and the simple pleasure and value of the natural world would direct humanity's interest more effectively toward changing the things they are currently resigned to. 
