In society, we live with the idea of having possesions and spending money to show our success to the world. It can be quiet exhausting to people to keep up with this lifestyle to show that we are successful in life. No matter how much money or possesions one person has it will never be enough becuase most of us spend will continue to try and compete against one another to beat each other in wealth and success. People have become too materialistic in our modern society and it has damaged our both mental and physical health of many people. In modern society people are willing to go to extreme lengths to try and obtain the items or money that they want. Therefore I will discuss why modern society should be at fault by being too materialisitic.

Having friends and peers around you will always apply peer pressure no matter how much people around you seem to encourage and praise you. In reality everyone is still trying to show off and become more successful than you are and are willing to do whatever it takes to get the upper hand on you. For example, two men(Man A and Man B) are trying to impress a woman by taking her out on a date. Both these men would show their worth by taking the woman out on date and showing her a good time. Man A is a perfectly good person but works a minimal wage job and could only afford to take the woman out for a dinner and a movie. While Man B is the CEO of a large tech company and is able to give her anything she wants. In today's society people seem to care more for the things that are given to them and the woman would likely choose to go out with Man B since he seems more succesful and would be able to provide anything she would like. People enjoy the idea of having someone be able to provide anything they like over the comfort of a good person. 

Another example of people being too materialistic is the illusion of fake it until you make it. The amount of people in debt that are consistly buying things that can not afford is more likely than you can expect in the United States. People are leasing cars, wearing designer clothes, and eating out all the time while they cannot afford to do so. In reality people do this because they want to show off a lifestyle that they believe that other would be jealous of them and think that they have an amazing lifestyle. The constant need of needing to one up each other shows that modern society is too materialistic and it damages our society. People are working two jobs or long hours to be able to afford items that they do not need. 

Our minds have been conditioned to think that we need the latest materials because other people on social media or news outlets are showing them off. In reality we don't need any of that to show why we are successful, smart, or anything of that matter. It is hurting more people because society will look down on the people with the old shoes, phone, car, and etc. The pressure of needing all these new things would put people in debt and have some having both some mental and health issues in trying to obtain these new materials. Therefore I feel that modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic. 
