Happiness is something that all humans strive for whether they know it or not.  Happiness is essential for humans and gives more purpose to their lives.  People can make many claims about what makes them happy, but ultimately happiness can only come from the pursuit of one's own goals and aspirations.  Human history is full of examples of people finding happiness and fulfillment in achieving one's goals.

Let's start with an obvious example, money.  It seems as though everyone says that money cannot buy happiness.  It is true in a sense because happiness cannot be bought, but money is a great tool to help people achieve happiness.  A person living below the poverty line do not have as many access to benefits that a person with an average salary enjoys.  Poor people are constantly worrying about how to survive.  They are pursuing money so that they do not have to be as concerned about survival, and money can help them.  A person who does not have to worry about how they are going to pay the rent will be much happier.  Such a person can pursue other interests such as hobbies, which helps in their fulfillment.  Often money is required in order to pursue a hobby, especially if it's international travel.  I know that many people will say that they know rich people and they do not think the rich are happy.  That would greatly depend on the person, but overall the excess of most things, including money, can be detrimental.  One should ask if the rich person is pursuing money in order to be happy.  Money should not be the objective, but a tool to help pursue happiness.

Let's look at another unpopular topic, illegal immigration.  Why does this happen?  Migrants even go through harrowing experiences in order to get to another country.  What's in that other country that they're pursuing?  I will admit that many of them are escaping persecution and death, but I think the vast majority are trying to pursue a better life.  They think they can find happiness in another country, and many are even willing to risk death in order to do so.  Pursuing one's own goals are so important for a person that many would rather die than live an unhappy life.  I could even argue that fleeing persecution is a form of pursuing happiness, because their former country is not allowing them to be happy.

People can say that focusing on the happiness of others all they want, but if they do not focus on their own happiness they are deluding themselves.  Whether they acknowledge it or not they need a certain standard of living in order to properly function mentally and emotionally.  I've personally seen the effects on people who constantly help others while neglecting themselves.  Ignoring their own happiness will cause mental health issues in the long run.  When people are comfortable enough in their own happiness, they are in the best situation to help others.
