     Materialism is a concept that was developed by the capitalist jewish society that we all live in. People are happy to collect material items to feel a sense of self worth. Many of the things that people strive to own are items that the jewish controlled media pushes out as advertisements and creates a feeling among consumers that the items are in demand or are very important to have. Many things are useless, but are status symbols, and people's judgements are clouded in thier pursuit of obtaining these material items.
      Too often, people are so distracted with obtaining material outcomes, and owning material things- that they forget the important things in life: family, love, and racial pride. Many people love the attention that they get owning material items, and these people are what we like to refer to as "vapid attention whores."
       In my own life, I do not follow materialistic values too much in my daily routine. I focus on the important things. I do not wish to piss my money away on garbage, when I can save my money to ensure that I have plenty of funds for emergencies or financial struggles later on in my life. I would like to see other people enjoy life more; to focus on non-material things like family and friendships. I feel that the world would be a better place if we all focused less on material, and more on substance! Modern society should definitely be criticized harshly for being materialistic! I think we should try to help each other be less materialistic. We should ignore the media and their trickery and their shameless advertisements too!
     I think that I have run out of ideas on the subject that I would like to write about. Hopefully you can use what I have written about to help other people get an idea of how I feel. Perhaps I can help some other people realize the importance of getting away from materialistic lifestyle choices. The world was a better place to live in a long time ago, when people were less materialistic. We need to get back to the days of living good clen honest lives and doing an honest day's work. Work is more important if you are working towards a goal of personal satisfaction, rather that as a goal of being able to obtain items that are material in nature, or are intended to boost your perceived status in society.
      It is important to criticize people who are materialistic. We must do what we can to stress the importance of enjoying life in a simple manner. Materialism is from the devil and the filthy system we live in.
