Images and impressions all too often have deep impacts on people. Things are never really quite as good as they appear as we live in an image-driven world where everything is marketed to look better than it really is. This can be harmful when images and impressions have too much of an effect.

One aspect of everyday life where this harmful effect is most abundant is social media. In these times you are seen as weird if you don't engage in social media. It can even be a deterrant to a potential job as many job recruiters use social media sites like linked in to vet potential applicants. Thus, a large portion of the western population engages in social media on a regular basis. However, social media is very image-driven. People carefully curate what they post, like, or even follow to put out a certain image, sometimes called a personal brand. This carefully curated version of themselves is not their true self. Oftentimes it's not even close to their real selves. There have been reports of groups of influencers being the complete opposite what they put out. For instance, a fitness influencer who actually doesn't eat healthy or exercise, but is naturally blessed with a body that is seen as fit or are just really talented with photoshop. There's also been religious influencers who don't even believe in the religion that they post about. Moreover, many makeup influencers use photoshop to make their makeup skills look way better than they actually are. Because all of these images they put out are misleading, people following them are often negatively affected. For instance, an aspiring makeup artist may wonder why their creations never look as good as a social media influencer's without realizing that the influencer uses photoshop to digitally remove pores. The aspiring makeup artist may then think that they will never be good enough and give up on their dreams without even realizing that what the influencer is putting out is not even possible. In cases like these, images and impressions that social media give off are really causing a lot of harm.

In this world, it seems like one cannot succeed without giving into the pressure to curate their image and the impressions that they give off. This can have way too much of an effect on people and lead them to make life-altering decisions. We as a people really need to take a step back into reality and value things for what they really are again versus the curated image that others want us to see.



