Modern society is incredibly materialistic, particulary in America, where  consumer capitialism reigns supreme. In this essay I will argue that materialism and consumer capitalism have a negative net effect on society despite the fact that many people's live would be greatly be improved upon by having more stuff including things that might be considered frivilous to other people. 

Everyday we are bombarded not only by ads and other constant reminders of the things that we can buy to live and enjoy life, but also by the constant need to keep working to buy things and so that others can buy things. Modern American materilism, as illustrated by instagram influencers, social media, and ads is a result of late stage capitalism and glaring example of how and why America is a dystopian society. The majority of people work in industries that provide goods and luxuries for a small portion of the population and never have the opporunity to beneifit from the fruits of their labors.  Meanwhile the prices of everyday necessities such as food, water, housing and clothing contiues to rise, as shortages increase.  This means that the average American spends more time working then they did 30 years ago. 

Opponents of this notion could argue that materialism is good, because it benefits us by having a wide range of options to choose from, and that many of the needs of the people are actually material goods, but this is not comepletely accurate. The average person does not have access to this wide variety of goods, and as their scarcity increases and the value of the dollar declines, they are even further limited. The majority of people work hard to serve a system that benefits the few.

Overall our materialistic society is only beneficial to a small group of people, the rich and powerful people who create these goods and influence society to desire them. While the solution is not as simple as wanting or needed less, those on the top would benefit society more if they desired  and consumed less and shared more resources with the rest of society.

It is no accident that as our society gets more and more materialistic, scarcity and supply chain issues have become everyday words. People have become used to not having things they need to survive including basic goods like baby formula and tampons.  The more that society rewards thinking only of oneself and and hordering material goods, the less goods there are to go around. In addition, the fact that the average person must work harder to obtain these goods means that they have less time and energy to enjoy them. The average person spends the majority of their time and energy working just to survive. This is the the opposite of what the industrial revolution and American dream sold as the basis for embracing capitialism and consumerism as a lifestyle in the modern world. 
