     When did life get so complicated?  Was it when the television was introduced to society or maybe when companies saw the potential to get their "item" exposed via television, radio, or internet.  There are many arguments among peers who could use several examples of why life became more complicated than our ancestors. In this day and age, I feel our complications are just as frustrating as generations before us.  Scientist have stated that man/woman continues to grow, so why not their ideas?

     We are all responsible for our own actions, so why do we feel the need to want more.  A child sees a shiny coin in the street and they gravitate towards it.  At a young age, we are taught to work hard to be able to have nice things.  Teachers tell students how important grades are or to have a goal for adulthood.  We see our parents or people who raised us work hard for the food, clothes, cars, homes, and et cetera.  The list can be endless for whichever goal is being worked towards.  The biggest question would be not so much that society be punished for being materialistic but maybe how people are oblivious to actual worlds problems. 

     Does someone truly need 200 pairs of shoes or six homes?  This mentality is like learning about the pharaohs in Egypt.  The more a pharaoh had, the more powerful they presented themselves.  Most famous or powerful people, use objects to show that they are famous or powerful.  In the world we live in today, money is the biggest influence of how someone has power.  Money buys anything materlistic.  What would be the purpose of buying a mummy or dinosaur bones?  The reasoning would be because you can and you like them.  Society has groups that whine and complain about helping other countries but their own country is not well off.  

     The biggest example would be Hawaii, where I just moved from.  When a commercial comes on, they see the beautiful blue ocean, the bright green forrestation, and sandy beaches.  In truth, Wakiki is beautiful and all they advertise.  The cops drive around in segways, Duke's is near the water, and festivals a thrown around with vendors.  No one tells you that there are signs to say be cautious of car thefts or needles in the sand.  No one tells you about the unlimited amount of steel plates all over the road because of the huge pot holes.  No one talks about the Hawaiian flag being flown upside down and what that represents.  How when COVID hit the island and Governor Ige slowed tourism, that Hawaiians cheered.  Finally they could go to places on the island without it being too crowded. How other states fly their homeless onto the island and homeless are everywhere.  On the sidewalks in tents, along he beaches, along the interstate.  

     



     
     
     

     

