As human beings we often have a lot of goals  in life ; whether its to go to an ivy league school , to own a house , have kids , buy our dream car , you name it  . But what seems to to be the root of all these goals , is whether they contribute to our happiness or not. What is a popular thought is that we often believe the thing(s) that we lack in life , is the secret to making us happy . An opposition to this is , making others happy with have a boomerang like effect on our own personal happiness. I believe that our happiness is solely tied to the things that we do directly to/and towards ourselves . To put ones eggs into the basket of feeding others happiness can be incredibly dangerous and fertile grounds for people pleasing behavior , which is never okay.
                     Focusing on ones personal goals and growth may sound a bit selfish , and logically speaking it is , granted some selfishness is healthy . There is no reason a person should be guilted into spreading themselves thin in order to "look" good to others ; when in reality , people usually put themselves first regardless . With that being said, people should look at  their goals and dreams first as a source of happiness and not at others . As soon as you look towards the outer to recieve fulfillment from , youve already failed . As humans , we can only do so much to control others,and making it a goal to make people happy can have a narcisstic drive just as much as focusing on ones own self can have. The more you pour into the outer world the more you are subjected to potential rejection and backlash  from it. Sure the idea of spreading positivity and joy to others is very attractive but in the long run it can make you a slave to wanting to be loved or liked.
                 Secondly the more you focus on other peoples happiness can actually deter you from your own. You will began to remove your own likes and interests if it does not fit or match up with the likes of the people you are trying to spread joy to . This can also in turn cause a loss of indentity and lack of knowing ones own hopes , and dreams because so much time and energy was put into pouring into the cups of others . The main goal of being put on this earth is to yes , contribute positively to other people, but to also use your knowledge and experiences to contribute to yourself and learn your lifes lessons. Everyones places and paths on this spining sphere is different , so it would be asisine to think or believe that happiness should come from making others happy . There are a plethora of personalities and not everyone is even emotionally capable of contributing to the happiness of other people and that should not be shamed .
         Lastly , focusing on the happiness of others can also open the person up to potential abuse . Human beings are creatures of habit and can always sense when they have the upper hand in a situation . Even for a brief few minutes of interaction you can sense when someone is trying to win you over , or get into your good graces . Once this is observed you can use it to your advantage and depending on your personlity type , be very destructive towards the other party ( who is looking at your happines as a source of their own) .  Making another persons happiness your own will always end terribly because humans are fickle creatures and the more you start to feel you are winning them over , the more they will get bored and want you to contribute even more to their emotional states.
 In conclusion , everyone should be responsible for their own happiness . People should have enough cognitive ability to realize that they are the power source to their own reality and happiness and that it is emotionally immature  to want otherwise . There is nothing wrong with finding happiness and postiivity in the goals you personally accomplish, instead their should be pride. That is not to say become a egotistical maniac, ofcourse not , but know how to look to yourself for the answers .
