There are definitely reasons to be worried if modern society is too materialistic. That being said, I do not feel that it should be criticized for it. The primary reason is that it is only natural to accumlate items, not to mention in the hiearchy of needs we will want to collect more as the foundational needs are met. There also doesn't seem to be any kind of negative effect that comes from a nautral collection of materials. 

When looking at both our society and the natural animal kingdom, collecting things seems to be innate, not strictly limited to the human race. Penguins collect rocks, birds collect shiny objects, and squirrels collect nuts. The counter arguement could be made that animals collect as a matter to survive, but in the case of penguins there is no survival associated with it, which leads to the fact that if you have your basic needs met then you will have more time, space, and energy to focus on enjoying life. 

Since most of our society has their basic needs met, it leaves them time to focus on what they enjoy doing rather than what they need to do. We aren't focused on spending all of our time each day gathering food or hunting or farming. We are allowed to spend that time instead focused on things the bring us some amount of joy and happiness. Therefore it seems to be more positive than negative that we are allowed to collect things. 

This also doesn't seem to have a negative effect on society until it is brought to an obsessive amount. Wanting something that helps you enjoy your hobby isn't necessarily a bad thing, especially if you do 

There are obviously going to be those that will claim that a focus on materialistic items won't bring happiness and that an obsessive desire to get them will only lead to burning bridges and ending relationships. I feel this is something those that have never had to worry about providing for themselves or their family. Money does not bring happiness but it does allow a foundational security that frees someone up to feel less stressed in a lot of other ways. For this reason I think it is still harsh to judge modern society for for being too materialistic. I think in reality our society is just fortunate that we have the time and energy to spend focusing on hobbies instead of struggling to spend each day surviving. 

