When I was younger, I thought happiness depended on my own personal goals and achievements. This is mostly likely because I didn't have to worry about anyone else and could do my own thing. My view of life has changed as I've gotten older, and now I find myself feeling happier when I focus on someone else.
Most of this happiness comes from my family, particularly my children. I feel such satisfaction when I know I am making my kids feel secure and happy. Hearing them laugh or talk about something they are proud of brings me such joy. Sometimes when we're all sitting around playing a board game and having fun together, I feel utter contentment. I cherish those moments. Another instance when I feel particularly happy is when I help my husband complete a project. We tend to bicker quite a bit when assembling furniture or planting a garden, but when I step back and look at the completed project, I am happy that I helped him. There is something wonderful about teamwork.
That isn't to say that people without kids or spouses can't be happy. A few of my friends are single and childless, and they are content. They have plenty of spare time to take long hikes on the weekends or go away on vacation to exciting places. They revel in the freedom of focusing on themselves, and if I were to ask them, I know that they would say they were very happy with life. Some people feel constrained or resentful when they feel responsibilities toward others, and instead just want the time to focus on their own passions.
As I mentioned at the beginning, I used to be one of those people, and I was perfectly happy. I could hang out with friends at a moment's notice, spend all my time focusing on a new hobby, or work late into the night to improve my career. But now that I have a family, I feel even happier, and most of that comes from the deep-seated satisfaction of helping my kids become good people and thrive in life. The excitement and joy on my oldest kid's face when he recently got his driver's license is something I will remember forever. Watching my youngest kid's face light up when I took him on his first carnival ride was magical. It's these little moments where I have provided my kids with a new experience or the tools for success toward a goal that bring me pure happiness.
Happiness can mean different things to different people and can come from different soures. But for me, I have found that true happiness comes not from my individual pursuits but from helping bring happiness to others.


