Looks can be deceiving. Whether it's the first time we sit in the driver's seat and notice the "objects in mirror may be closer than they appear" warning on our side mirrors, whether we're scrolling through our social media feeds, or whether we turn on the news and see throngs of people falling for the depraved schemes of a power-hungry madman, the evidence that we're easily deceived is all around us. In order to stay connected with reality, we need to actively counter our instinct to immediately agree with our first impressions and ensure that what we think we see matches what really is.

There's a reason our side mirrors come with a warning. Human brains are fallible, and our five senses can often be tricked into thinking conditions are different from what they really are. When we learn to drive, it takes time to adjust our thinking in terms of what we see in those mirrors. With practice, we learn to judge how far away something really is and leave adequate time and space to change lanes safely. Our brains need time to adjust because what we think we see on the road is different from what really is there.

Another example of how our brains are easily tricked comes when we open our smartphones and scroll our social media feeds. The glossy, highly curated photos and videos we see are just snippets of others' lives, but we often think they represent reality. Teens, and even adults, sometimes bully each other and tear each other down over what they see in this alternate reality, often forgetting that this fantasy land bears little, if any, resemblance to real life. Brands style their products in ways that make us eager to consume, even if the styled product bears little resemblance to the one the buyer receives. The brands don't care--we've fallen for the illusion, and their bank account has grown. Online, perception is king.

The all-consuming and often dangerous role of perception in driving our actions and thinking was on full display during the events leading up to and during the January 6th attack on American democracy. A master manipulator of perception, the former guy (whose name I refuse to type), who lied and cheated his way to power, again sought to manipulate the masses in order to maintain his stranglehold on our very way of life as Americans. A coordinated and sustained effort to spread lies to the masses came to fruition when TFG swore the oath of office in January 2017, and he perpetuated those lies to convince his gullible followers to completely detach from reality and buy into the Big Lie. Those conned by the Big Lie were tricked into thinking that their Fuhrer had an electoral victory stolen from him, when these claims had zero basis in reality. TFG pushed these followers to the breaking point by manipulating their perceptions, ultimately motivating them to unleash a fury of violence on our government that had not been seen since the Civil War. If anyone doubts the significance of perception over reality, they need look no further than this deadly insurrection.

If we are to overcome the fallible nature of our brains, which can often be tricked into perceiving things that are not really there, it will take diligence and sustained effort. Just as new drivers learn to question what they see in side mirrors, we all have to train ourselves and others to question whether what we see around us is truly matching reality. Critical thinking, vetting information, and determining the reliability of sources are all essential skills. With hard work, we as a society can continue to see the world as it really is.
