When it comes to the topic of happiness, there seems to be a pretty dark line drawn between the two main opinions and feelings on how to acheive said happiness. Many people believe that true happiness comes within. These people believe that you must meet your goals and do what you want in order to be truly happy. On the other hand, some people believe that you can only be truly happy while you are taking care of others and making sure they are happy. Which one are you? Personally, I believe that the path to true happiness is through yourself. 

While you're on the path to your own happiness, you truly do have to decide what you really want in life. If you keep on going day to day doing things that you don't even want to do, such as working a job you hate or even being a homemaker when it's not what you want, you're not going to find happiness. Happiness starts with yourself. Do you remember when you first started school? Back in the day, you didn't know how to read or write. You set goals and worked towards them. Do you remember the pure joy of just being able to read on your own or write your own name? I may not remember that exact situation but I can think of plenty of goals that I reached and ended up with utter enjoyment and bliss. Imagine feeling like this all the time. Imagine a life where you always feel like you have a purpose. Imagine a life where you're constantly breaking down barriers and reaching goals that make you absolutely thrilled. That right there is a life of pure happiness.

People may argue that their happiness comes from helping others. I can't fully argue that that isn't the case. Some people truly do get happiness from helping others, as I think you should. Who doesn't want to make other people happy as well? Seeing someone smile because of you is a wonderful feeling. With all of that being said, if you're someone who enjoys making other people happy then it's still a goal of yours to make others happy, therefore reaching your goal and accomplishing your own happiness. Do you see where I'm going with this? You can absolutely obtain happiness from making other people happy but you are also contributing to your own happiness by reaching goals and accomplishing things you set out to do. I don't believe that you can make other people happy without making yourself happy but I don't believe that people should focus strictly on making others happy. For example, if you decide to volunteer with a children's group for kids who may not have a mentor, you first decide that you would like to volunteer because it would make you happy. Making those children happy while you're volunteering is just an added bonus that adds to your happiness as well. It's like a snowball effect in the absolute greatest way imaginable. I don't believe you CAN truly only set out to make others happy because there is always that tiny bit of selfishness involved when setting out to do for others. I'm not saying that selfishness is a bad thing, not at all. That bit of selfishness is absolutely normal and expected due to the fact that you're only on a mission to help others simply because it's a goal or task that makes yourself happy as well. It truly is a beautiful thing honestly. 

In conclusion, I do believe that the true path to happiness is in the goals we set and focusing on what we want to do. Find a job you love, stay home with your kids if you're able, endulge in a hobby that makes you happy, do volunteer work to make others happy as well. There are so many ways to acheive happiness, you just have to find what truly works for you and don't let anyone talk you out of what you want to do with your life!
