Everything we do, in some way or another, involves creating shortcuts in our mind, short hand images for important concepts and ideas.  If, for instance, one were to think of a bag of chips, most likely there is a specific go to image already there and waiting.  This, in and of itself, is fairly harmless.  It's how our brain works.  We'd be unable to function if we had to go through every single variable every time we tried to consider a concept.  However, there is one very important problem with this.  This process is hackable.  By manipulating what we think of, the images and impressions that we recall, people can be controlled, manipulated into thinking and behaving in ways that benefit others, rather than themselves.

Perhaps the most obvious symptom of this problem has to do with the Overton Window, a concept that seeks to explain what people see as acceptable.  To "move the Overton Window" is to shift what concepts are considered a socially and politically acceptable.  In this case, let's look at the Overton Window in the United States.  Think of the most politically left politician you can think of.  Get a good image of them in your mind.  Is it Bernie Sanders?  Alexandria Cortez?  If you're consuming mainstream media in the U.S., that is most likely the case.  Both would be considered social democrats, that is, in favor of increasing social safety nets and wealth taxes but uninterested in changing the capitalist nature of our society.

This is as far left as the Overton Window in the United States extends, at least in terms of mainstream coverage.  And Sanders and Cortez are regularly depicted as far left and radical.  To most Americans, they are the very image of what left wing politics are.  And this is by design.  Media companies are owned by corporations.  They exist to make money.  It is against the interests of the people who own these companies to platform anyone further to the left.

Now, assuming we leave the U.S. for a moment and move to another country.  Most of Western Europe has a more diverse Overton Window then the United States.  Our Democratic Party would be considered center right in Germany or the U.K. for instance.  But here, the only image that most people have of a left wing party is the Democratic Party.  They can't imagine anything further left than that, or if they do, they see it as strange or impractical.  The Republican Party in the U.S. is just considered the right wing of the two party system.  Most Americans' image of the Republican Party is that of a moderate to right wing party with a few far right politicians included, though that image is beginning to change after the the January 6th insurrection. However, outside of the U.S., the Republican Party would be considered far right.

In other words, the stories and mythos we are fed, thie images that are constantly reinforced by the media, politicians, and corporations are deliberately designed to put blinders on our thinking.  As a society we are conditioned not to see further left, even though theory and praxis exists far to the left of Sanders and Cortez.  What we are allowed to imagine, the images we as a society are told are correct restricts the way we think about issues.  We are told that there are two choices.  Democrat and Republican.  We are told that these two choices are far apart, divergent, and deeply divided, when in fact they are only a very small segment of a much, much larger range of political beliefs.

The argument against this might sound something like this: we have freedom of speech.  There is no overarching conspiracy to constrain our thoughts or censor how we think.  After all, you can still find and read a copy of Marx's Das Kapital.  It's actually public domain.  You can find it online.  You can find youtube vidoes of people reading the entire work, so you don't even need to go through the trouble of buying it if you have internet access.  The Overton Window exists as a cultural construction.  Societies decide what is and is not acceptable, and those positions may change over time, but to imagine a deliberate effort to restrict the imaginations of an entire society borders on conspiracy theory.  People imagine what they do because it's simply what they're exposed to, and if people don't run into fringe theories very often, it's because they're simply not very useful in daily life.

However, this line of thinking is incorrect.  While we do have freedom of speech, that freedom is a passive freedom.  The government can not interfere with what we say, except in very specific circumstances.  It is not active freedom, that is to say, an equal ability to platform ideas.  In our society, money is considered a form of speech.  Those with money can platform their ideas much further, alter the form that media takes by virtue of having the money to make those demands, or simply refuse to pay for anything that does not conform to their liking.  There does not need to be a great conspiracy.  Corporations act in the interest of profits.  Anyone advocating for public control of the means of production or even higher taxes is not profitable.  It is therefore, profitable to refuse to allow those images into the public consciousness.

If we stop and think for a moment, it becomes painfully obvious just how stifled our political imagination is.  The images we are allowed to consume as a culture are painfully limited.  Democrats and Republicans would be considered by most American to be the image of political opposites when, in truth, they are simply two very similar positions along a much large political spectrum.  These images, propogated by corporate interests and the governmental structure that supports them, are far too influential.  Though it may seem an impossible task, we must break away from this restricted world view and consider points of view outside the narrow window we are told is the whole of what we should see.
