Material possessions can make us so happy...but do they really?  We go to work so we can earn money and then we go out and spend it.  Some people even spend more than they earn.  Mateial possessions make us feel good.  You see, we want to be better than our neighbor and have more "toys".  Having the most "toys" can indicate to others that we have "made it" in life.  Why do we feel as though we have to have more and be better than others?  Are we just not happy with our life unless we have the most?

Having so many material things in our lives can be a bad thing or a good thing.  It could be considered bad if we spend too much on certain things and not save for our future, but it can also be a good thing to be the type of individual who can understand the value of money and make good decisions.  Material possessions do not make us happy...just like the old saying goes "money can't buy happiness".  Just don't let the money you have rule your life.  Our money should come second to our famiy and the things they need.
It should certainly be spent on necessities before spending on our wants.

Taking everything into consideration, should we be criticized for having our "toys"?  I think not.  We work hard, we play hard, and we have every right to spend our money the way we see fit.  Does that mean we should?  Absolutely not!  We should save for our futures so we can have a comfortable old age.  I'm sure there is a balance in there somewhere of how much money we should spend and how much we should save, but I do not believe we should be criticized or undermined for spending our own money on the things we want.  

Society in the world we live in today can be very materialistic, but all in all, I feel most people know how to control their money and purchases and they do okay for themselves.  To sum it all up, no, I do not think modern society should be criticized for being a materialistic society, but I do think we should be reminded every now and then that we need to keep things under control.  Just a simple nudge will do!
