Happiness can come from many sources. Some people believe happiness is best derived from focusing primarily on one's own goals and desires.  Others believe that happiness stems from working on goals that bring happiness to others or improve the lives of people who may (or may not) be known to the them. 

It is my belief that happiness can best be achieved by working to ameliorate the conditions of others, by devoting oneself to serving humanity, community, or friends and family above all.  The happiness that is derived from such endeavors is deeper, richer and more long-lasting than the superficial happiness that may be achieved by being singularly focused on one's own temporal happiness. 

Psychologists and social scientists have often studied the question of how acts of altruism impact the person performing those acts.   The findings overwhelmingly indicate that those who act altruistically feel a greater sense of meaning, of connection with others, of purpose, and of satisfaction than those who do not.  As humans, we are social creatures, hard-wired to connect with each other and to work for a sense of belonging and socialization.   

The urge to volunteer, the urge to lend even a small hand to someone in need, the desire to be part of something greater than ourselves is inherent in the human condition. Our brains respond positively to such engagement with others, releasing mood enhancing endorphins when we are able to fulfill such a role. 

It is impossible to go through life without being aware of the degree of pain and suffering that exists - whether it is the grand scale of global disease and poverty or simply the emotional pain of people close to our own lives.   One can easily become overwhelmed with despair if one simply sits back and watches, feeling powerless to respond.  But taking even small steps to assist others, to improve a life or improve the world, lifts that darkness and allows a ray of hope to enter into our lives. 

Some would argue that the answer to the happiness challenge is to first focus on oneself, to seek inner peace or material success.  They posit that such a focus is the only thing one truly has power over, and that looking inward is the best tool to be able to face a world that often can be unfair or cruel.  

But such an insular view feels, at the very least, selfish in perspective.  More importantly, it denies those who practice it the ability to benefit from the moments of uplift and hope that can come from making a child smile, from comforting the lonely, from knowing that your own actions made someone else's life better.  It is also denies one the warmth and pleasure that comes from being interconnected with others, from knowing that one's actions have even slightly improved the world one lives in. And it ignores that reality that each of us, at some point in our lives, will need the assistance (emotional or practical) of others. 

Working for a better world, serving others, being part of a community and being connected to people is what will, in the end, satisfy the very real need we social creatures have to create a happier and a better life for both others and ourselves. 


