Is the appearance of people really as important as we think?

According to the prompt, appearances are often a great factor in making a mistake for reality. The news often take advantage of this and create advertisements or reports that are tailored in a certain way in order to gain more audience or create more traction in the message they are trying to portray.

 The same applies to big brand companies, which also tailor their product's advertisements on the images or appearances of the people that they are trying to target. And all that is of course being done for a reason. People of power are also displayed in a certain way to make us think that those who look or have a similar appearance to them are also powerful people in our community. Think about about a politician and more likely than not you will picture someone really well dressed and wearing a suit and a tie if the case is that the politician you may be thinking of is a man. 

  But what if that wasn't the truth? What if the appearance displayed of others wasn't as important as we think? Even if we think it does not, I do believe that the way others are displayed and projected to us really affect the way we think about them or think about certain groups. There is a reason why we often act or behave differently to certain groups of people because we have become accostumed to judge them based on their appearance. Which in some cases it may be for best and in some for the worst. This is a problem that not only affect how we see certain individuals or public figures, others around us but people from other countries as well; or even those that not necessarilly have our same cultural values and may do or wear different clothes than what we normally do. I do also believe that the argument of how important appearance of others have been taught to us is to establish a way on how we should view society as a whole, or to be more specific to establish society norms when thinking about others. 

For example, how many times have you meet someone that you thought was going to act in certain way because of his or her appearance when in fact he or she was a total different person from what you imagined. That is a great way to think about how much images or the appearance of others affect others, when sometimes the reality of that appearance may not be true. What do you think? Does appearance is really as important as we think?
