 As the world begins to take its modern shape sculpted by technologies to make our lives easier. It is easy for one to loose track of the important things in life. Moreover, it is essential for us that are priveleged enough to expereince these luxuries. That we do not let the rest of the world fall behind due to consumerism infecting our minds. Should people in less developed parts of the world really suffer, so that we can keep up with the jones per say?

It is imperative as we transition into this modern world built on the backs of capatilism. That we bring the entire world with us not just those who were fortunate enough to be born in a wealthy and free nation. One of the draw backs to this transtion has been the rise of materialism. As capitalism developed so did the goods to be able to show off this new found wealth. Why else would you be able and want to buy a hand bag from Louis Vuitton for thousands of dollars. When plenty of brands around the world offer a hand bag at a much cheaper price and with more sustainable products. How long will we let our egos drive our purchasing desicions? Without giving thought to those who are less fortunate. Unfortunately, one of the drawbacks to this transition to a modern world has been the rise of materialism.

On one hand, people suggest that its their money and they should be able to spend it how they see fit. Has selfishness really infected the globe to the point that we do not care for the others of our species? Just because they are from somewhere else on the planet or of a different color of skin we should not care for these people. This train of thought unfortunately has been a by product of capitalism and lead to a rampant rise in materalsim. Does a new Louis Vuitton bag really make you more happy. Or is the happiness derived from being able to show it off to others. To those people I ask them to challenge those beleifs. As we all have the responsibility to make the world a better place. Not to say you have to live poor but why not take a vaction to a struggling country. And see the beauties that it has to offer while helping to give back to the locals. There are so many more meaningful things we can do with life.

In conclusion, while the rise of capitalism has sculpted the modern world. There have been unfortunate by products that need to be addressed. The world needs to grapple with this diese of materialism as it affects our species as a whole. There is no reason for people to be suffering around the world with food shortages and lack of medicine. When parts of the world are rich with wealth. Those waelthy parts need to do more of their share and help bring these portions of the world that are lagging behind into the modern world with them. Otherwise, greed and envy are doomed to handcuff the progress of the human race and our goals of living in harmony with one another. So next time you go to buy a designer hand bag to showoff, I would like you to ask yourself. Is this contributing to me being a productive member of society or just to toot my own horn that I am the best?
