What we see is hardly ever what is or what we get.  I cannot think of any better examples than the use of social media today used by individuals to put forth and create an image or appearance of  how "perfect" and wonderful their life is.   Some of these people, know as "influencers"  have made a career of such imagery and all one has to do is look at the millions of people following these influencers.  At first one might wonder what this influencer knows or is doing that is so important that they have millions of people following them. Your first thought might be this is someone who is doing something substancial or important,  typically these are not people that are known outside of the social media world. 

They are not famous musicians, or actors, writers, doctors, politicians or anyone that is serving the public in any capacity.   They are "famous" on social media and as you begin to go through their social media account wondering and looking for the reason behind the huge following you are left confused because you find nothing other than hundreds and thousands of this persons pictures of themselves and their interests and hobbies and lifestyle.   Their ability is creating a persona of what they are and what their life is and what they have. Most people will not be able to relate to this but they admire it, hence the reason they becoming a follower of this person.  

They have been able to post pictures of just about every single emotion they have felt or are experiencing at any given time along with the background of where they are when experiencing this emotion.   They have taken basic daily routines and turned into monumental events that for some reason appeal to people.    

One might say  this is a good thing. An average person is able to attract the attention of millions simply by living life and showcasing this life in pictures and short captions and stories, that it inspires other people to just live their lives as they do and not be so hung up with the rich and famous as a lot of people are, but these influencers are having the same effect on their followers as if they actually were your traditional rich and famous.   Most of these followers feel they fall very short of the influencer and feel like failures because their lives are not close to or exactly as the influencer and this leads to followers making the influencer in their mind seem even greater than what they originally thought. 


The influencer has great power over the follower because they were able to present themselves and lives are wonderful and magical and that they are special, when the fact is they are everyday average ordinary people that do not actually have any notable accomplishments.   Their skill lies in knowing what people want to see and what appeals to people and they give the people what they want, an illusion, an appearance of a perfect charmed life.  They have mastered the art of creating an illusion of what is important and what matters.   

People following these influencers would be better off to focus and invest this time spent on following influencers and their "wonderful" lives into actually improving their own lives and the lives of those around them.   They need to understand that the influencers are nothing special at all and simply decided to portray themselves as being different from others, all one has to do is look closer and there is nothing there of any substance or importance.   Its just a barrage of mostly photoshopped pictures of this persons image and day to day life exaggerated.  


In conclusion, what we see is not what is most of the time, but a deliberate creation of what the promoter wants you to see, feel and believe. It is not based on anything other than tapping into your  desires hopes dreams and wishes.   All of these individuals be it indivual people or businesses are simply nothing more than master manipulators. 





