          While some experts might fault contemporary Americans for being overly materialistic, they should not do so because, in modern society, an individual can only achieve personal, cultural, and material power by acquiring money and items. To wit, the American system is structured around, and is almost entirely dependent upon, a materialistic philosophy. Individuals thus need to be materialistic in order to cultivate and maintain friendships, acquire societal accoloades, and achieve even a modicum of power and influence. This is because almost everyone, in America anway, judges their peers based upon how they accumulate, manage, and spend resources.
          Some pundits like to view the past nostalgically. They long for the days when an individual could become prestigious, powerful, and well-liked even though the person was poor. They say that these people were able to accomplish this feat in part because their societies favored virtues like intelligence, meekness, or sociability over resource-related metrics. In my classroom exprience, I remember one instructor talking fondly about this topic. He pointed out that Socrates, even though he was extremely poor, managed to influence key personnel in his city-state, advance a world-changing philosophy, and gain everlasting fame. While that fact might be true, individuals must live in today's world, and, at least in the U.S., no one will listen to a person unless he or she is at least moderately well-off. 
          In today's society, individuals will have difficulty in escaping from the materialism that has embedded itself into U.S. culture. Almost everything that people do involves some type of transaction--often a monetary one. Americans, even ones who own a farm or live in the wilderness, will have difficulty in obtaining all of their basic necessities without at least engaging somewhat in the U.S. market economy. In most workplaces, people's popularity, prestige, and sense of accomplishment is based on materialistic aspects like sales made, revenue earned, or goods produced. Individuals cannot escape materialism when they leave the workplace, as it is all around them--in the advertisements they see on billboards, on walls, on the Internet, on the radio, or on television. American homes are based on a materialistic ideal. Everyone likes to see homes that contain a lot of expensive furniture and household items. 
          Given this fact, Americans will find it difficult if not impossible to develop friendships unless they can afford to spend money on hosting parties, going out to restaurants, attending movie theaters, or engaging in other resource-related exchanges with or between their friends. They also will not be able to achieve even a modicum of prestige or create any type of legacy without acquiring at least some wealth and spending it on purchasing goods and services or in giving it away to those in need. As an example, Americans do not remember the poor beggars who lie in unmarked graves. However, almost all of them can recall the names of wealthy Americans like Washington, Carnegie, and Rockefeller. At the same time, the average Americans looks on, with a combination of pity and disgust, at the homeless vagrant but views today's billionaires with envy. Finally, an American needs to have resources in order to be able to accrue and exercise any sort of power. A wealthy person can hire an army of servants and staff that he or she can boss around; while a poor person has no power. 
         In conclusion, and much to the dismay of some pundits who harken back to previous eras, anyone living in the modern U.S. needs to be materialistic if they are going to get anywhere in the world. Materialism, and its ideals, pervade all aspects of American society and are thus a necessary part of it. Individuals living in this country will have a difficult time in developing friendships, in achieving fame, in building a legacy, or in exercising any type of power if they do not focus most of their attention on acquiring wealth and spending it. Perhaps someone can survive if they eschew materialism in all of its forms. However, this person will live a very lonely life and will not be able to secure a legacy that will survive their physical death. 


