We live in a time where style is more important than substance.  We look to people who wearing the latest fashion trends rather than those who demonstrate fresh ideas through critical thinking.  We reach for the snack on the shelf that has the catchy commercial jingle rather than an alternative with better nutrition.  On the stage we are enamored with the bands that dress flashy, are the best looking, are the best packaged group by their handlers rather than support those with real talent.  We have wandered too far down the path where beauty trumps all and we need double back to the fork in the road where talent, meaning, and substance are the core values.

We once were a nation of leaders, but more and more evidence points to a nation of followers.  We have allowed the media to tell us what we like.  We have allowed the media to tell us where to spend our money, who to support, what social media to follow,  etc.  We were once a country of independent thinkers that overcame tyranny to establish a new government... a new country.  Now Taylor Swift tells us to think liberally and people swing to the left.  We have put too much stock into those that are beautiful and trendy.  We have created a new generation of Instagram models shilling protein powders and make-up.  We hang on every word of an internet sensation, yet we ignore economists, Nobel laureates, doctors, researchers, etc.  There is an entire generation of anti-vaxxers because of misinformation pedaled by people like Jenny McCarthey despite mounds of evidence to the contrary.  It's time for all of us to wake up before we devolve into an Idiocracy.

The reach of Hollywood, Nashville, New York, etc. is far reaching.  It's understable that young, impressionable teenagers can be swayed by disinformation.  They don't have the life experience to sift through what they read and what they hear.  Harry Styles says jump and they jump!  There needs to an evolution.  They need the guidence of their parents, their family, their teachers, their community leaders.  We cannot sit idly by as they drown in the drivel spouted from the mouths of the beautiful and the popular who are so far removed from reality.

Our leaders, our educated members of society, those that have sound thinking through research, experimentation, trial and error need to be heard and respected.  Our media rarely gives them a voice on the front page of whatever media outlet that is in vogue.  Pretty does not mean able.  We need to support and allow the learned people of our great country to have a presence front and center in our lives.  We need to forget political ideologies, the latest fashion trends, the most beautiful, etc.  We need to celebrate ability.  We need to celebrate substance.  We need to get on the right path again.  We are a country of creators, revolutionaries, opportunists... and yet our behavior suggests the opposite.  It's time to treat our visionaries as rock stars and let Taylor Swift take a bake seat. 
