      Differing views on materialism greatly affect society today. The criticism of societys demand for things will always be a part of the global conversation. There will always be the discussion about the haves and the have nots. The desire to own things may be a fundamental part of human society but does it really have to be this way? Does modern society really deserve the criticism for being to driven to own? 
      I absolutely think modern scociety should be criticized for its insatiable desire to possess things. Society has evolved in a way to puts to much emphasis on owning things and obtaining wealth. Society is falling down a rabbit hole of its own creation. The desire to obtain more possessions merely feeds a feedback loop in which anything is never enough. As a whole I feel like society is going down the wrong path and rightly deserves the criticism levied at it.
      These days people spend too much time trying to aquire wealth to fund their obsessive need for material places. People no longer have time to stop and "smell the roses". Each day people grind away their entire day just so they can afford the monthly payments on their new I-phone, but don't realize that you can enjoy life without it. All in all the desire to amass things is creating a dystopian society where people function for a singular goal. Society has taken for granted the all the things that make the world worth exploring in exchange for stuff that is only meant to distract.
      Now I realize that material things may help distract people from the mundane activities of their daily lives, that new I-phone is sleek and exciting after all. The point, though, is that you dont need the lastest trendy electronics and new designer clothes to enjoy life. Just as much enjoyment can be obtained by a quiet dinner with your family or hanging out with your friends. The things you have only contribute to the enjoyment, not define it. Were people to look away from you things and step back and look at the bigger picture they could realize that life is full of its own little enjoyments everywhere you look. 
      All in all, I believe society is falling down a rabbit hole of materialistic consequences that most people havent begun to grasp. When will Society realize that it is a trying to invest in a solution by manufacturing a problem? Everyday people buy more and more things trying to fill an the void in their life that they created. Only by giving up their desire for more possessions will people realize that there never was a void to begin with.
