When it comes to competition, some may say it's what drives them to be the best version of themselves. Competition drives sports, sales, and salaries. What people fail to think of is the team behind them that cooperates in these actions to help you achieve the best possible outcome. I propose that competition is nothing without cooperation.

It's Monday night and football is on. Take sports as a prime example of what drives the best overall achievement; it's team efforts that win the game. Every single person has a drive in them to compete, it's how they ended up in the NFL. However, what makes the teams stick out above the rest? It's cooperation. One single player can't consistently achieve greatness game after game, without cooperation from his coaches, teammates, & everyone along the way. 

The quarterback can't rely on his talents and competitive drive to be the best. You need your offensive line to protect you long enough to throw the ball out. You need your wide receiver to catch it. You need your kicker to make the extra point attempt. You need cooperation behind each and every force to guide you along the way. It takes a team, a cooperation by all. 

Competition in sales for examples drives your salary. One can argue that to be in sales, you have to embody a competitive drive. However, that isn't the case. You can have the competitive drive to go out day after day, long hours after long hours, to increase your sales. But you alone aren't sealing those sales. Your boss, your coworkers, your leads, the team collective effort that is behind you helps you achieve and close those deals. 

Personally, at work, we have a competition to who can save the most money at the company. This drives competition, sure. However, my coworkers and those on my team continuously provide ideas and next steps for one another on how to help everyone. It's cooperation that has brought out the best ideas and results on our crew. If we all held onto our own ideas and beliefs, we would have missed out on hundreds of thousands of dollars to help our company save. In the end, it's benefitting everyone, and driving each of us to reach our best potential.

Behind every player, every successful person, is a team. There is no competition without cooperation. A team can't succeeded without coaches. A sale can't finalize without accounting, your manager, and the lead guiding you along the way. While competition drives people to continue, cooperation is what guides you to achieve those results.
