 Humans are fundamentally attracted to beautiful beings. Of the five major senses we have, the sense of sight is perhaps the most dominant one which we heavily rely on to process information. Beautiful and pleasant images and visual ques are powerful tools to shape people's feelings, thoughts, and even behaviors. Although the reliance on the sense of sight is part of humans' evolution, however, I argue the images and appearances often have a too much effect on people.

 It has been numerously shown that people give more favorable attention to other people or objects that are visually pleasant. For example, people are willing to pay extra money for more design-forward products (clothings, cars, appliances, etc.), even if the product is in question not so much better than others in terms of quality and function. Entertainers and politicians also gain more attention and positive evaluation from the public when they are physically more attractive. A more disturbing example would be how people react to attractive criminals; people often petition for less severe the sentences of criminals when they are good-looking. All these examples illustrae how humans are highly impressionalbe and susceptible to images and appearances.

 There are, however, moments when people do consider the actual content of matters rather the image and appearance. This tends to happen when something or someone has an exceptional ability, skill, performance, or quality that overcomes their deficiency in terms of the visual attractiveness. For example, people often choose more functional clothings over more colorful and fashion-forwards garments because of practical reasons. If people have specific reasons to consider actual quality of a person or an object, appearances and images lose their effects on people's judgment.

 In conclusion, people are, most of the time, attracted to visually appealing stimuli. This is part of human tendency, and is a rampant trend in modern society. However, there are certain cases in which people's behaviors and judgment are less susceptible to images and impressions; when people have concrete, specific reasons (e.g., looking for certain functions or when someone or something has an outstanding quality), they may choose people or products that may not have attractive appearances. Our society needs to educate people to be more cognizant of what is beneath the outside appearance, and not to judge a book by its cover.
