Images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people. People tend to believe that the outer appearance of a person far exceeds their substance. People tend to look at the outside appearances in an effort to base their opinions rather than the type of person that person really is. The idea of a person's status or personal financial sucess tends to lead to many people seeking a 'smokescreen' of a person rather than really seeing that person for whom they really are, whether it be good or bad.

There could be many reason for this. Perhaps it is due to the fact that people admire the 'idea' of what that person has in life or their position of power or status. Perhaps it is based on what we as a people desire to become 'themselves' that we tend to see in that person. But, is this fantasy really truth ? Is what a person appears to be 'really' who they are ? Should we take the time to look and delve more deeply into the type of person someone is rather than the material possessions, status or power that surround them ?

If we take the time to really look at this stance carefully, we could compare it to the popular sayings --'Everything that glimmers is not always gold'. "The bigger and more colorful the package does not always reflect the best gift." Perhaps we need to take off the rose colored glasses and see people for who they really are and not the power, status or position that surrounds their identity. Is it more important to vote for someone that is a celebrity or a popular sports figure but has a history of violence and is telling lies and has no ability, education or experience to run for a political office? or should we delve a little deeper to look at those who are more sincere, in keeping their promises who may not hold the same status or position of power, but truly has a vision for the American people ? It is so important that we take the time to really look at the person, not the image. This will shape us to look at who we choose to look up to and admire,who to vote for and understand the real reasons why we like the certain people. Is it the image and power behind that person or is it the person themselves ?


