The history of advertising can be traced back more than 200 years and can be quite amusing at times. For instance, the popular soft drink Coca-Cola was once advertised for medicinal purposes and contained the now-illegal substance cocaine. Another interesting fact, although a bit of an uncomfortable fact, is that Cornflakes cereal was actually advertised to medical professionals as a tool to stop men from masturbating. Advertising nowadays is not quite as exciting, given all of the laws and regulations companies are required to follow. One statement that can be proven not to be true 100% of the time can create a huge lawsuit for a big company. That being said, the media we consume shapes our daily lives completely. From the moment you wake up, the products you have in your home are apparent. Therefore, the advertising of these products plays a huge part in either images that we wish to project, or the standard of living we wish to have. The images and impressions companies put out in their marketing and advertising have a massive effect on people's every day lives. 
In the early 2000s, thin was in! The ideal body type was not as curvaceous as is preferred nowadays. Every magazine, television show, and media image was of very thin women who could wear crop tops and tiny bikinis with not an ounce of fat visible. There were tabloid articles written about celebrities who were "bigger than ever" when, in reality, they were a completely average size. Food manufacturers followed the trends and pumped out diet foods by the pounds. The damage was astronomical to teen girls who were ingesting these images in every form of media available. Diet pills were flying off the shelves, eating disorders were becoming glorified, and television and film was following every bit of it. These images and ideals were greatly affecting the young girls of the time and leading to so many damaging relationships with food and body image. 
It can be said that it is not the fault of the media for the perceptions of their consumers. Many would argue that it is up to the individual who is reading the magazine article or watching the television show to use their own rationale to realize that every person is different and that that is okay. They would argue that parents should be talking to their teens and not allowing them to purchase diet pills. Media conglomerates can argue that the consumers must LIKE the content being put out based upon record numbers of sales. 
However, it is important to put stress on the age and state of brain development of the average age of consumer. When teen magazines are only showing thin bodies and "diet hacks" followed by advertisements of popular diet pills, it can be assumed that the average age range of the consumer is within their teenage years. This can be assumed to be anywhere between 13 and 19 years of age. At this time in a person's brain development, they are unable to process the consequences of their actions appropriately. Therefore, when they are receiving these images and impressions about what a body should look like, their thought process is only to obtain that type of body - not the consequences of obtaining it. This can lead to health-damaging eating disorders, mental and emotional stress, as well as the long-term consequences of these actions. In extreme cases, this can lead to suicidal tendancies if a young person with inadequate brain development is led to believe their body is not what's best in this world. 
The images that the media puts out have a dire effect on people, especially younger people. As we have moved past the early 2000s, you can find many firsthand accounts from people, especially women, who were of the 13-19 year age range at that time and can account for the damaging body images in the media. You can research the statistics for eating disorders at that time, as well as mental health issues resulting from those. Just ask a celebrity who had curves at that time - they will surely be able to direct you to the nastiest paparazzi attack on their body that was spread all over the media for every person in the world to see. It is so important for the media to focus on body-positivity and kindness towards other's differences in order to rectify the damage that has been apparent in the past. It is also important for parents and guardians to keep their children aware of the misleading information the media can put out so that children and young adults are better able to process these types of media. We, as a society, can diminish the effect the images and impressions of the media put out into the world, but it will take some work! 
