Images and impressions have an effect on people but without images and impressions there would be no effects made.  Images and impressions are important in forming effects on people.  It is how people interpret those images and impressions that is important.  People need to be able to make their own decisions about apprearances and not just conform with society and peer pressure when deciding on the effects of what they see.

Social media and television have created a false reality.  Filters on apps and social media posts only highlight the aspects of one's life that make life seem flawless and perfect.  Everyone who sees those posts wants to have that perfect life.  But in reality no life is flawless.  It is up to the viewer to realize that those filters are in place and to see the truth behind the images.  Very few people have flawless skin (filters create that false image).  Very few people can sit on a beach and watch the beautiful water all day long (Facebook posts give envy).  Celebrities travel the world and post pictures that show what few can afford but everyone wants to be like Mike!  It just is not the reality for ninety-nine percent of the world.  

Social media backers want to sell their products so they continue to push these false realities and create more filters to attract more "followers".  These social media "stars" want more views in order to gain celebrity status and get paid higher commissions.  People should realize this but they want to live a better life and see themselves living through others.  That is not healthy.  The old saying "the grass is greener on the other side of the fence" just makes one want more and more and better and better.  But one cannot be happy if they are always reaching for the next best thing.  People need to learn to be happy with what they have and what they can reasonably obtain.  People need to tune out social media images and make their own decisions on what is real for them.

False images are running rampant in the political arena.  There are so many avenues of news outlets one must be careful on how they interpret what is out there.  Fox, CNN, local channels, Facebook, late night comedy...they all put different spins on what should be the facts.  It is how one decides to interpret what is being represented that is important. Look a little deeper.  Do not just take what you see at face value.  If the issue is important go to more sources.  Verify your sources.  Do not take those images to be true until you really think about it.

Images will always be out there.  It is in images that we create impressions.  People need to see those images for what they really are.  They need to create their own impressions and not just buy into what is put in front of them.  Critical thinking and using some common sense will go a long way in how much an impression is made by these filtered images.




