Success is achievable through many different methods however, the most successful two options are cooperation and competition. Cooperation is the best way to achieve success, as it pulls not only from an individual's own experience, but on the group as a whole, pooling together many different sides and experiences. Competition can introduce stressors that can lead to a person's failure in a project. When multiple people cooperate, then those errors will be proofread and evaluated by others all working together for the same goal. 

When you have multiple people working together and cooperating, this group of people can achieve much more than a single individual. Teamwork and cooperation go hand in hand. If one individual does not have an answer, then having mulitple people cooperating on a project gives you more experiences to draw your answers from. One person may not have a great deal of knowledge on a subject, but could be the expert in preparing and publishing. Another person in the group could be an expert in the matter, but have issues translating to a readable or presentable format. Taking all of the strengths of the group and making up for everyone's weaknesses can elevate everyone's successes. When competition is introduced, then the feeling of needing to hinder others to make your own personal gains enters, and then your success rates will drop. 

When competition enters the equation, rushing and constantly comparing your work to others can cause you to make mistakes, or to come to a conclusion you wouldn't have previously. This introduces a new level of error possibility. Competition can motivate, it cannot directly contribute to your own success. This same motivation can come from the cooperation of your group as a whole, and can bring success to everyone involved, instead of to just one person. A group success is much more beneficial to a project than individual successes. 

Working alone is limiting, and hinders the amount of information and experience you have available to achieve success. This is why cooperating and working together is the best method of achieving success. For example, you have one person working on a presentation regarding company profits, and you have another group of people cooperating together for the same presentation. The group of people will have much more accurate and fufilling information for their presentation due to the increase in materials needed to come to the correct conclusions. One single person will only have themselves to draw upon, unlike the group. 
