Happiness is one of the most important goals that any human can have. No matter where someone is from or what their background is like, the pursuit of happiness is something that we all share. However, people are divided on what the best way to achieve happiness is, and there are many different approaches to finding happiness, including focusing on the things that are most personal to an individual such as personal goals, and achieving personal happiness by helping others to improve or become happier. Based on my personal experiences with my career and my hobbies, I have found that people are more likely to be happy when they focus on their own personal dreams and goals, and actively working on the things that make them happy. 

For example, I deliberately chose a career because I knew that it would make me happy. My job involves creating and delivering programs for a local non-profit, and unlike many of my friends' careers, it is neither well-paid or prestigious. It also took a lot of work to get to this point: I had to go back to school to get my master's degree, and I've done a lot of intensive training to achieve this goal. I followed through despite all these obstacles because it was a dream of mine that I thought would bring me happiness. I could have easily settled for something that paid more even if it was unpleasant work, but I wanted to focus on what would make me happiest overall. In my current position, I get to work with children and families, talking about things that are important to me, like the cultural heritage of my area and the people that lived here long ago. It makes me happy to see how people light up when I tell them things about my town's history that they didn't know, and the happiness I receive from this job is far more important to me than just a paycheck at the end of the day. Another example of how pursuing my own goals makes me happy is my hobby, knitting. Several years ago, I decided that I was going to learn to knit for no other reason except it was something that I thought I would enjoy and make me happy. It took a lot of practice, but I didn't mind - I was happy just to work on this goal and it was an incredible feeling to see myself making progress over time. I continue to knit even though it is not a very fashionable hobby because it makes me happy in multiple different ways: I feel the joy of creating something physical, it helps me connect with other people in my area, and I can often give items to charity or to friends and family. 

Of course, pursuing a personal dream isn't the only way to find happiness - I know many people who find happiness in volunteering or doing activities that help others, like fostering cats and dogs for an animal shelter. While focusing on other activities can certainly lead to happiness, I think that my strategy of actively considering what makes me happy and following those dreams has overall made me happier in general. The same things don't always make everyone happy, and it's important to keep in mind what works best for you, even if it seems strange to others. After all, not too many people consider working with kids or learning to knit something that makes them happy, but I find it personally rewarding.

For many of us, happiness is often elusive or difficult to find, despite its importance in our lives. However, I have found that looking to my own hopes and dreams is the best way to achieve personal happiness. While it's still important to participate in other activities such as helping others or focusing on other goals such as building a successful career, I think that the happiest people I know are the ones that have focused on their own personal goals, like my neighbor who reenacts the Revolutionary War on the weekends. She is in her nineties, but her entire face lights up when she talks about her reenacting experiences, and it's clear to everyone around her that she has found happiness this way. Life is short, and we should take the time to look inwards and really explore what personally brings us happiness, not what other people think should make us happy.
