I always thought taking care of others was the most important thing in life. I wanted to take care of other's emotions and well being but then I realized that life is so much better when you take time to take care of yourself. In taking care of yourself you better serve others and make a better life for yourself. I just became a mom 2 weeks ago and it's honestly the most incredible feeling i've ever had in my entire life. I am so grateful to have been given the opportunity to share my life and world with our son. Putting him before me just comes naturally but I also realize that the best way for me to take care of him is to take better care of myself so that I am rested and feeling my best so that I can give him the best of me which he deserves. I know that having children doesn't mean much to some people but it's all i've ever wanted. I dreamed of being a mother my entire life and I never got to experience that until this year almost 40 years after my own birth. Life has a funny way of making it's own plans while you are trying to figure things out. I am so glad that I have this opportunity to finally make all of my dreams come true and to give my baby the best of me after I have learned how to manevour thru life and become the best version of myself that I could possibly be. Hopefully when my son is grown up long after i'm gone he will remember his momma and the way that I would do anything just to see him happy and healthy. I thought that my life was fulfilled before because I had come to terms with always having a dream of being a mom but knowing that it probably wouldn't happen had led me to given in that it would be the one goal that I couldn't accomplish no matter how much work I put into it. It broke my heart time and time again knowing that I was failing, my body was not doing what was supposed to come natural to a woman . I woke up one day after starting a new job and thinking my period was late because of the stress of starting a new job not knowing that I was actually pregnant. I took a test and then told my husband about it who was super skeptical about it because we had been trying for 10 years and not having any success on our own. my husband had cancer and had chemo and radiation which affected his fertility and we were told that we would have a 1% chance of concieving naturally. Then one day we were pleasantly suprised with our blessing . I feel like no matter how many goals you have in life the ones that really matter are sometimes out of your hands and no matter how hard you work on things sometimes you may just have to wait until life's plans work out in the manner it is suposed to for your life journey.  
