In our daily lives, we are constantly exposed to images and videos that subconsciously affect the way we perceive things and people around us. This takes form in different ways, affecting how we see how other people, products, companies, celebrities, friends, and coworkers. The advertisements we see on TV, the colorful, stimulating packages we see at the grocery store, and the portrayal of celebrities and politicans affects us much more than we think. 
Psychology studies have shown that the first thing we perceive on a person is their shoes, and this idea has much larger effects than previously thought. When study participants wore dirty, old shoes they were less likely to be hired by employers than those who wore clean, new shoes, even when participants had the same qualifications. Similarly, the advertisements for politicians have become increasingly centered on appearance and less on ability. Campaign ads for Donald Trump in the 2016 election included far less attacks on policy and ability and far more attacks on clothing/appearance, age, and even sex directed at Hiliary Clinton. And these types of advertisements resonated with voters far more than in previous elections, as voter turnout was up but these voters based their vote on perception of the candidates and not the ability of the candidate to run the country. 
Some may say that images and impressions do not equally effect all aspects of life, but this is not true. For instance, when being hired at a company, we believe that qualifications and ability are the most important aspects in being hired, but studies found otherwise. When two potential employees were scouted by a company, they were then interviewed. Both candidates had the same qualfications but one was an Indian man and the other was a white man. Despite equal qualifications and interviews, the white man was hired but the Indian man was not. In a similar situation, an African-American man has better qualifications than an asian man, yet the asian man is hired and the African-American man is not. This is due to the way the two candidates are perceived and the stereotypes that stem from the way some people are viewed. So, even in areas where ability and qualification are all that should matter, humans often rely on appearance as a way to make their decisions and judgements. 
Our first impression of people often plays the most important role in how we will perceive them moving forward. We rely on perceptions and images of people that are not based in reality and this has real consequences in the world and in our day-to-day lives. The next president might be decided based on the outfit they wore to a debate, or your next failed interview could be due to the way your interviewer perceived your shoes. Human nature is often not rooted in reality and is instead based on the subtleties in our lives. 
