What is the pursuit of happiness? Is it self indulgence of fulfilling one's personal wants and needs or is it self sacrifice where they only focus on the needs of others, gaining satisfaction and joy from seeing others thrive due to their hand? This essay will focus on the discussion of if people would be more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or if they focus on the happiness of others.

It can be argued that happiness through the pursuit of self-satisfaction, of fulfilling one's wants, needs, and personal goals is going to be the more surefire way of producing their own happiness. While this could possibly be construed as a more 'selfish' path to happiness, this is also the path that is guarenteed to ensure that their ego and id are assured, calmed, and quelled. While it is always good to focus on bettering one's self and to reach for one's personal goals, it also can be seen as a negative trait if one solely focuses on one's self. 

Others will argue that a more self righteous method, of focusing on producing the happiness of others, would be the way to guarantee their own happiness. While this does come across as selfless and lacking ego, it can also be argued that at the core of this method, it can be seen as selfish because it is only a person trying to force the hand of someone else's happiness in order to produce their own. This is often done at the expense of one's self and by pushing their needs and wants aside in order to accomodate others.

This is absolutely a subjective argument to try to delve into but I believe overall, the best path to happiness is to focus on the happiness of others. While it is also self-serving in its own right, this will not only make you happy as a person but it will also make those around you and those affected positively by your actions happy as well.

At the end of the day, we are all looking for some form of contentment and joy in our lives to counteract and fight against the crushing weight and misery that can be the world at times. By choosing to focus on creating your own personal happiness through creating happiness for others, it overall will make the world a better place. People will be positively affected by those actions and moods and will then create a butterfly effect (in theory) and will continue to then breed joy and happiness for those around them, as well.

By choosing to focus on creating happiness for others, not only will people be more likely to be happy but the world will be a better place and we may be able to see positive change come from it. If people on the planet actually cared more about one another rather than about themselves, I believe that we would see more agreements between sides, less fighting, less anger, and less sadness. If people were more willing to put others in front of themselves and to remove the blinders from their vision, to remove the selfishness within themselves and to remember that there are so many people on this planet sharing the same space and feeling a lot of big feelings as well, I do truly believe that more people would start to see that they can help create happiness within themselves by creating happiness for others. We, as an overall society, are very inwardly focused and need to shift that way of thinking, to focus outward on those around us, to help each other and to help our community by trying to create joy for others around them.

Therefore, I believe that people are more likely to be happy when they choose to focus on creating happiness for others instead of for themselves.
