               
                  Images are great illustrators of things otherswise not well known or seen. They often provide a unique perspective through the creator view point. Although some images or impressions created prensent an  appealing representation to us, they do not always mean what they show us at face value. In this essay I will argue that images we see on everyday life do not neccessarily represent the reality. I will provide some examples and some of my observations to make my point. 
                  One of the reasons that convienced me to claim that images are not always a great represenations of the real life is how decieving the images of models that we see in the advertizment industry. The pictures of these models are too perfect. They are well polished and they are absolutly spotless. The models looks as skinny as can be. The outfit they wear or the makeup they put on looks flawless. Creating the illusion that they are perfect in everyway. This often lead us to compare ourselves to them and make us feel that we will never measure up. Ofcourse we won't, it is not real in the first place. However, what the public doesn't see is the behind the scene hustle the producers go thgrough to create the perfect image. To bigine with, the models starve themselves days prior to their photo shoot to look skinnier than they usually are. They will also take several pictures untill they land on the the perfect one. Even after that if there is any unpleasant body part that is showing in the image, they photoshop those parts as if they were not there. All these to create appealing image so they can market their products to us. The same goes with celebrities. They show us their perfect image on big days. But a whole lot goes behind that we do not think about when we see them on the red carpet. Some people may say 
 that not every advertisment picture we see is photoshoped. I hear that, howeve, although not photoshoped it goes through some unreal proccess to make it look perfect.
                 These images we see shape or the impressions we get out of these advertisments shape our shoping behavior. If I see a beautiful dress on a perfect looking model, I imidiattely see my self in that dress but the minute I try it on and it doesn't look not nearly as good as the image, it tends to create low self esteem. So I say it is one thing to enjoy what others created, but it is also important to realise everything we see is not the right representation of reality. Especailly when it tends to have an impact on our self image. Therefore it will be nice to remind ourselves that it is not worth comparing ourselves and be a victim of low self esteem because of a perfect picture someone took a lot of skill and spent a several hours oh. We are perfect as we are.  
   
      
