What is the purpose of working and earning money, if not to buy things? I believe that modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. I think that throughout history, our society has grown to value things and what they can do for us. There is a certain point where things can bring happiness, similar to experiences, love, and the like. 

People buy things for a reason. There is truth behind the 'shoppers high' that people get. Knowing that you can afford and buy things brings happiness in itself. The ease at which people can purchase things has also led to our society growing in materialistic tendenecies. Throughout history, society has grown more and more materialistic and that has boosted our economy and made everyone generally more well off. Back in the day, it started off as buying or acquiring or trading for what you needed and no more. Then it turned to what you actually wanted, whether it be a certain type of food or clothes. Eventually it led to getting what makes you happy. The ultimate source of it is happiness and pleasure. If buying a can of soup makes you happy, do it. If buying a 40oz steak makes you happy, do it. If buying clothes from goodwill makes you happy, go for it! If buying designer dress that you will only wear once makes you happy, go for it! This isn't to say you should buy things just because they make you happy in that moment without thinking, though. I am a full beleiver in evaluating why you want an item and then making the decision. If the decision is still that you want it, I don't see why it should be criticized at all. If you end up not wanting it or needing it in the future, you can donate it. If it continues to bring you happiness and joy, keep it! We shouldn't all live like we are still in the great depression - those were different times. 

Additionally, being materialistic is entirely an individual choice. If you want to buy items, you do it. Noone forces you to spend your money on things you don't want. If you are doing that, that could symbolize some mental issues of trying to fit in with people who aren't like you, jealousy, or other negative traits. 

The only opposition to this is buying things you can't afford, but that would be an entirely different topic on budgeting and jealousy that is not playing into my opinion. Being materialistic does not equate being a bad person, though some may try to make that claim. If you can buy something that brings you happiness, do it - the world needs more happy people. 
