A majority of the world is built around the pursuit of acquiring materials and items.  While some people work to survive, others work to spend.  Can this pursuit go overboard?  Is there credibility in the criticisms of materialism?  I would say yes.  I believe our pursuit of materialism needs to be balanced.  I would argue that we do not have a good balance in today's society.

My philosophy on life is that I want to do whatever is in my power to lessen human suffering in the world.  My actions in life are influenced by this philosophy.  If by pursuing materialism, I am hurting someone, then I wouldn't want to pursue materialism.  In our society, especially America, we see cases where materialism leads to the harming of people.  For example, insulin in the United States is priced extraordinarily high.  Humalog is a type of insulin that was released in 1996.  At the time, Humalog cost around $24 for one 10ml vial.  Now, that same exact insulin is around $300+ a bottle.  The formula for Humalog hasn't changed.  The production costs have actually gone down since it was released. The Research and Development costs have been recovered years ago. It is estimated to cost around $3-$5 to manufacture one vial of Humalog.  The only reason why the price has reason is greed. 

There are tragic stories of American Type 1 Diabetics who depend on Humalog and other insulin that have been greatly affected by the increased cost.   One young, American Type 1 Diabetic died because he couldn't afford his insulin.  A number of insulin-dependent diabetics have admitted to rationing their insulin due to the cost.  This is an example of how the pursuit of money, which fuels materialism, can have devastating effects on people. 

I understand that materialism can be a powerful motivator for certain people.  I am sure there are people who achieved more in their careers due to the pursuit of wanting more items and money.  Certain items can also provide a lot of pleasure, stress-relief, and joy in people's lives.  If you are not hurting in this pursuit, then I don't have an issue with this.  However, when people are being harmed due to materialism, it is obvious to me that the scales need to be re-balanced.   

We should always be critical of something that can potentially lead to harm and unhappiness.  Criticism can help to refine ideas which can result in improvements.  Materialism should not be exempt from this criticism. 


