Have you ever thought about the flight or flight reflex?  How have humans made it so long?  Was it shear luck?  Or was there something else that played a role in our sucess as a species? In determining the sucess of our species, we must first determine whether competition or cooperation were the driving force.  In my opinion, though competition did have a driving force in the sucess of our species, it was cooperation that has made the lasting impact.  

When thinking about how the human species has been so sucessful, my first thought to evolution.  All living things must evolve in order to survive.  Most often people think about physical evolution (eg. hair, skin color, and eye color).  However, there is also evoultion found in social  settings as well.  For example, some of the first humans that lived on earth lived in a very deadly time.  Because of this, it was dangerous and hard for them to live alone.  Because of this, early humans began to come toagther to survive.  The coming together had its benefits.  Soon early humans were not having to work so hard because there were others to assist in the work.  

Some would say that this may be true, but we no longer live in that world.  However, I aruge that this is still true.  When we look all throughout history, and even today, we see the world that is working together.  For example, we live in a a global world. We no longer live in the isolated pockets. Instead we live in a complex world.  For example, during the Covid pandemic, the world's in some ways came to a hault when it came to consumer goods.  Many factories around the world closed, shipping vessels were not able to load and unload goods.  Store were having to figure out what do with empty shelves.  In order to get this corrected, it took a lot work and cooperation.  There would be no amount of competition that would have solved this problem.  Instead, it took many people working together to get the consumer goods flowing again.  

In conclusion, there has always been a question about whether cometition or cooperation have been the driving force of success.  It is my opinion that over the long haul cooperation has been far more effective at determining sucess that competition. Though competition has always been around, as humanity has evolved, cooperation has been the main method of the social evolution.  
