Materialism is a vital and necessary part of today's American lifestyle, and in fact, is a cornerstone of our capitalist society. 

To live the "American dream" necessitates the step-by-step crawl up the material ladder of needs; at the bottom is the basic survival of humanity. Do we have enough to survive on: adequate food, basic clothing, good housing? To earn this survival, we participate in the workforce and earn to acquire possessions, thereby supporting ourselves and our families. As we meet our basic needs and continue to participate in our capitalist society, Americans naturally join the treadmill of "earn, spend, repeat", achieving a level of independence and working their way up that material ladder. We acquire more possessions, perhaps to ensure our level of comfort, to grow our families, or to keep up with the Joneses. We support our neighbors, our job force, our local businesses, our infrastructure, by ensuring that the money continues to flow in and flow out by earning and spending.

Is this level of materialism too much? I do not believe can be characterized that way and can point to the last two years in American pandemic society as a real-time experiment. We stop going out to eat, the hospitality sector slows to a crawl. We stop buying cars, the production lines shut down, with layoffs from auto manufacturers all the way down to chip factories. We hoard toilet paper and lumber to the point that it's impossible to buy me, the supply chain clogs up. (Pun intended.) Our capitalism has been built on a cyclic expectation of materialism, and any upset of this system throws a monkey wrench into life as we know it.

An ideal, utopian, kumbaya society could be built without personal materialism, but not in 2022, not in America. It would require a basic restructuring of American ideals from our founding fathers (who were, of course, mostly rich landed white men who lived an upper-class lifestyle), and we're too far down this timeline to steer this titanic away. 
