We all are aware of the nature of competition, but it it all that it is cracked up to be? Competition can often bring out the best or the worst in an individual or a group of individuals. We have all seen the shy person often come alive and shine during a competition that gives them the opportunity to be the "expert" for that brief time period when they are performing, but on the flip side we have also seen the negative ways that competition can bring out the worst in an individual, one perfect example is Tom Brady deflating footballs to decrease the performance on the opposing team in order to increase his chances of being the best. In groups competition also has the power to bring out the worst as each group wants to be number one. Because of this I say competition is more likely to have a negative impact on society as a whole, while cooperation has a much more positive impact. 

Competition is based on the stance of a winner and a loser. Because of this, people in competition are working against one another to achieve that number one status. This means that people competing are more likely to take on aggressive means of getting to the top position without regard to their fellow man. Those involved in competition are more likely to act in a manner that is not at all cooperative as they want the top status. In the course of being competative, the individuals may not act in ways that align with who they really are, and although they might reach the high status they are competing for, they might be making some important sacrifiaces on the way to the top position. 

Cooperation, however requires individuals to come together. While cooperating people work and com up with strategies and ideas that they can agree on. Cooperation requires individuals to consider the thought and feelings of the others that they are working with. It means that people working together have a common goal. With the knowledge shared by the individuals more and more effective work tasks or exrtra curricular tasks can be accomplished. Cooperation means in the end those involved in a task will be supporting one another. 

While the law of nature seems to be competative, as you can see competativeness puts people out on their own to accomplish their goals. Cooperation on the other hand  brings individuals together. Cooperation gives the chance for people to learn from one another. In cooperation ideas are shared toward a common goal.   So, as you can see cooperation is the best way for people to find success and competition is not.                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                 

                                                                                                                                       
