In the modern era, materialism has become the cornerstone of modern life. With the advent of the internet and social media these practices have gone into overdrive with direct consumer data and influential marketing aimed at luring consumers into more spending. What's worse is many peopecome the cornerstone of our culture and societies. Powerful industries have been formed to both produce goods and induce demand for those goods through manipulation that seeps into every aspect of mole go into debt chasing the rush of buying a brief status high from their peers through their possessions. We as a culture and society need to curb this materialism and focu on more productive goals that will have more lasting impacts and provide long lasting impacts.

One of the largest problems with our short term thinking and materialism is that the producers of goods have been incentivised to create inferior goods. This makes it cheaper to have more possessions; however, they fall apart and don't last which makes it harder for  those at the lowest end of the economic ladder to rise above their station. There fewer hand me downs and the focus on anything new distracts from an ability to pursue any sort of real prosperity. Individuals go into debt for an education so that they can make money to buy more goods and services while working long hours and at the end of the day most people still don't have then money to pay for minor emergencies. This cycle of debt caused by our materialism is a legal form of slavery where individuals are told what to want, why they want it, and lead to a specific path to acquire those goods. It is a far cry from simply trying to attain what one needs to provide for themselves and their families which used to be the focus of our societies and cultures.

The industries that have been built up and centralized production of goods has also been very helpful at producing what is needed. We have efficient supply chains that can bring life saving medicine or food and water across the world at records speeds, but it has come with a cost. These companies have become cruelly efficient at separating people from their money with trifles that will only be forgotten in a basement or storage space if not trashed shortly after their purchase. This cycle of growth for growth's sake has created hardship and anxiety for the majority of those living in this system and has created a sharper divide between the rich and the poor despite also providing a higher standard of living for everyone as a whole.

I would say that modern materialism has fueled the drive that has brought us many great things and technologies, but currently we have taken that materialism to an unsustainable extreme. It needs to be curtailed and replaced with sustainability and a longer time preference. Now we can get anything we want at a moments notice, but it is better and more virtuous to focus on what we need and work to have extra resources to build a better world one day at a time instead of selling out the future for a brief boost in morale from material goods. 
