     By adopting materialism we narrow down our avenues to forge ahead. Materialistic thinking makes one introvert and selfish. Human beings, most of us, want to go beyond. When we widen our perspective and horizon, we find that materialism is the limiting knowledge available to us. There are many other aspects of human self. Here enters spirit and soul in equation. I usually refer to the dangers of adhering to 'seeing is believing' cliche.
     Let us try to understand the situation through an example: We see very large number of material things and living objects and know by name what they are. We have not seen dinosaurs but we have evidence. Thus we drag 'imagination' to support and supplement our materialistic approach. With  the advent of microscope, our area of vision are extended' things we never imagined were known to live with us. When the blow up the image of a small bacteria or virus to the size of our dangerous animals like aligator etc., some of these virus, germs or bacteria may appear to be more frightful than animals known to us. They are added up to our material world as an augmented reality, therefore being only conjectural or totally unknown. Our material base grows the our successes in laboratory.
     Likewise, we can propound that there are so many unknown variables we have no idea of. We observe that materialism has very limited potential for society. In order for a society to grow, we need abstract realities which do not come in the fold of Materialism. So, we need, for better health of society, to have material as well spiritual inputs. The spiritual and religious components will dilute the negative influences of materialism and render the society more polished and likeable and make the people more extrovert and helping.
     On the good parts is that materialistic people can find happiness with those precious materials. Buy things if and only if you need. But materialistic people for most cases do not want that. They need more and more. If you give something to them they may throw it in garbage even if you gave it as a gift. So materialism causes selfishness.
