Imagine you're walking down the road when you spot a $100 dollar bill. After you pick it up and feel excitment wash over you--what a lucky day!--you're confronted with a choice: how to spend the money? Should you save it? Should you spend it on someone else? Should you treat yourself? If you're like most people, you'll probably find a way to spend your newly acquired wealth on stuff.

People in modern, industrialized societies are materialstic. A perrinneal question, however, is whether being materilistic is bad. In this brief essay, I suggest that materialism is bad not because it is superficial and not because it may ultimately lead to less meaning or happiness than its alternatives, but because materialism is unsustainable.

You don't have to dig deep into the science to know climate change is happening and happening fast. Just this week, multiple countries in Europe have broken records for summer heat and France is fighting wildfires. More than 2/3 of people in the US are dealing with at least 90 degree temperatures and we haven't even hitten the dog days of August yet. Materialism has lead to unprecedented convenience and a real lift in the standard of living for hundreds of million if not a few billion people in modern industrialized nations. It has also lead to a climate catastrophe.

If people in modern societies should be criticized for being materialistic I do not beleive it should be on the grounds that materialism is bad for materilaism's sake. Materialism and consumerism increase people's standard of living, create happiness, and happy experiences. At the same time, however, materialism is far too often disconnected from its real cost: the impact on our environment. How much does a new dress, a fifth sweater, or another pair of shoes cost--especially when it's from a "fast fashion" retailor--when that item's envionmental impact is factored into the retail price? How much do the conveniences of modern life cost when a tax is levied on the carbon and other greenhouse gases pumped into the environnment to make it possible? 

The rate that humans are currently pulling resources from the Earth, consuming, and then tossing out the waste is not sustainable. Ecosystems are starting to give way. Biodiversity is dissapearing. Farmers will soon reap smaller yields from their crops, increasing the cost of food and goods, and threatening to collapse the supply chains and food sources everyone depends on. Our materialism, like our food and our overdemanding work schedules, is unhealthy.

Some people may argue that we shouldn't worry about the costs of materialsm and that we should enjoy the Earth while we are here. Although few people would publicly be so selfish, they may beleive the real costs of climate change are far down the road and that most people alive today will be dead by the time the most serious impacts are felt. Or, perhaps more truthfully, they may argue that human materialism is a force that cannot be stopped. Even if people in industrialized nations stopped consuming and began living less materialistic lives, people in the developing world currently do without all the spoils of a materialist society. And, if even just a few nations in the unindustrialized world push to grow their economies, the planet is doomed anyway. In response to this, I would argue that the objective is not to erase materialism, but to harness it. We need to live in better balance with our enviroment and we need to create less destructive means of consuming. Materialism produces a lot of public good, but it has serious costs as we currently practice it. In short, unless we change and start changing fast, we won't have a choice about how or whether we live. We also won't need to debate materialism. We and everyone descended from us will be dead. Becauase our materialism is slowly killing us. 
