There are two beliefs about achieving happiness. Happiness can come from deciding what you want to achieve in life. This form of happiness comes from setting a goal, working towards that goal, and ultimately achieving it. The other belief around happiness is that one must not think about one's own happiness to achieve it. There is no personal goal setting or journey toward achieving a personal goal. This happiness only comes from working towards the happiness of others.

The two forms of happiness are not mutually exclusive. I believe that personal happiness starts with the self. In other words, I subscribe to the form of happiness where a person decides what makes them happy and then sets a goal to work towards it. Happiness comes when a person identifies that thing that makes them happy and then works toward it. There is great satisfaction in achieving a long sought goal. But often, when people look back at their life and personal happiness, they often find that while they have gained satisfaction from acheiving their goal, they find that the times they were happiest was during the journey itself. To be engaged in life, people need a direction. They need something to work toward. Otherwise, life floats by without structure and without the important sense of accomplishment. It is the journey and the striving that defines our life and that is where happiness can be found.

I said earlier that the two forms of happiness are not mutually exclusive. One can acheive happiness by focusing on the happiness of others. Doing that requires the self to identify that what makes a person happy is to see happiness in others. It requires the self to define happiness first. And then, how do you go about making others happy? Well, there is goal setting there, too! It takes a plan to make others happy. There is a goal and a journey, just as in the first case. It will take effort to make someone else happy. It requires an understanding of others needs and then a goal is set to acheive the happiness in others.

Happiness comes from the self. It requires a definition of what makes one happy, even if that definition is to make others happy. Once that is done, a goal is set and the journey begins.
