From an early age, children recognize the mascots to their favorite cereal. A child will beg and plea to their parent to get the cereal that has the talking tiger because she promises it is better than any other. Objectively, this cereal is no better than the rest. In fact, the nutritional value of the cereal may even be worse than others, but the mascot and the image conveyed by the cereal brand demands the attention of consumers. The images and impressions of brands and popular figures have a hold on people, but this is not always a bad thing. This specific vulnerability of human beings to images is not inherently bad, and can even be used for good. The effect images have on people is not too much or too little but just right.

Brand mascots, often used to market 'bad' foods, can be used to better market more healthy foods. Cereal, fast food chains, and typically 'unhealthy' foods are the usual culprits that have a mascot marketing their products. Healthy foods, like fruits and vegetables, tend to need no marketing because they are natural. however, several companies have used mascots to their advantage to promote healthy foods. For example, Chiquita and Green Giant use mascots in their marketing and are some of the biggest distrbutors of fruits and vegetables. People still prefer other mascots and foods to them, however, despite their attempts at using images and impressions to their advantage. This does not mean that consumers are completely brainwashed by marketers, though, because they know when the impression of something is too good to be true. 

Politicans constantly lie and break their promises, but voters still keep them in office. Does that mean the politican has brainwashed the voters using their image and impressions to the public? No, but it does seem that way. The hold that images and impressions have on the public is strong, however, humans still have free will. The effects of images and impressions may be a contributing factor when someone votes or buys a box of cereal, but this effect alone is not enough to push the person over the edge. Several external factors determine how a person will react. 

Of course, some people may be more vulnerable to images and impressions, but this still is not too much of an effect on its own. Some say that products may look better on the package than what the product really has to offer, yet people still buy it. This scenario often has nothing to do with the images and impressions conveyed to the general public. People have access to a varying amount of information regarding a product but always more than what they see on the product's packaging. A product may catch the eye of a shopper because of how 'good' it looks, but this is not the deciding factor for them. Their past experiences, current stage in life, and many other things influence their decision no more than the images and impressions of a product. 

Images and impressions may seem damaging to consumers at first - how could the average shopper ever compete with the array of appetizing images in the grocery store? Luckily, they don't have to. Images and impressions are just another thing the public sees everyday and is used to. It's nothing they haven't seen before. The effects that images have still can touch them, but it's not too much of an effect for people to be worried about. 
