It's been suggested that people are too easily swayed by the appearance or impression an item, message, or person presents.  Blinded or distracted by how these products, messsages, or people are "packaged," we often fail to recognize that their true value or abilities may fail to meet our expectations.  Fast food commercials, for example, may promise a sandwich consisting of two thick slices of bread overflowing with fresh ingredients, yet the item that is receieved after payment resembles nothing like the meal that was advertised.  People may present themselves as friendly, well educated, and successful--for example, by flashing a big smile, making known their educational pedigree, and driving a luxury imported car--but in time, reveal themselves to be largely fabricated.

Many of us are easily duped into believing outer appearances accurately reflect reality.  At the risk of being too political, the former president of the United States arguably serves as one who has masterfully convinced millions of people that he was well suited to lead the nation.  He promised many things.  He presented himself as a strong and powerful man who was successful in his previous endeavors.  And as we learned, many of his most loyal supporters bought--and continue to buy--this presentation.  Indeed, they've further warped his outward appearance, as demonstrated by some of the artwork appearing on the flags of his supporters; these images often show a muscular, vigorous man leading his followers into battle, and some even present him as god-like.

Of course, some efforts at presentation fail, and some people are able to recognize that they're being played.  As Bob Marley famously sang, "You can fool some people sometime, but you can't fool all the people all the time."  Again, using the former president as an example, critics suggested that the image he presented as being tough and strong was actually false bravado, and that his claims of being a successful businessperson were actually attained via fraud and misrepresentation.

So, are we too easily duped by appealling images and impressions?  Perhaps the answer is, "it depends."  One's susceptibilty  likely depends on one's ability to engage in critical thinking, as well as one's willingness to become educated about various topics.
