Happiness is something that every human being strives for. Introspectively, the word 'happiness' embodies the very epitome of life itself: four letters on each side, symbolic of any sort of stress one might encounter like work, family, relationships, and all compressing against one single letter caught in the middle, 'i'. Due to the nature of this relationship, I would dare to argue that the only way that one can truely find happiness, is to find a way to dislodge themself from the letters that surround them, or to free themselves from the stresses of this world that weigh on their conscience. In essence, people are more likely to be happy if they are able to reach and move past whatever motivation or personal goals they have set for themselves that give their lives purpose. 

It is the natural course in the life of a human to strive to overcome feats. Whether it be feats of strength or of the mind, humanity has always had the desire to push to boundaries of self, and to reach beyond what was previously thought to be impossible. Children are taught at a very early age that they are to go to school, get a job, start a family and raise kids. For the elderly, this is what gives them their satisfaction in their old age. Retrospectively, they are able to see their successes through their favorite memories: Romantic moments with their spouses, the birth of their children and grandchildren, and the successes of their lineage. All of these things represent milestones in their lifetime in which they have accomplished great feats, and they are reminded of these feats through the legacy of these actions, their children, granchildren, and all the memories they've collected along the way.

Imagine living in an environment where you have to grind continuosly with no breaks: once you've cleared one hurdle, there are twenty more waiting for you. Now imagine that you've cleared every hurdle and crossed the finish line. You're out of breath and tired, but you turn around and admire the work you've done, and at the gold medal you've just been handed for your performance. This is why people tend to be happier if they focus on their personal goals, because they have distanced themselves from the weight of which themselves and others have placed on them. An individual who has focused on their own personal goals with find happiness through the hurdles they have cleared and the experiences and memories they've gained on their journies. Only by putting space between 'i' and the other letters around it, can anyone truely be happy. 
