In today's society, we are bombarded with tons of stimuli. Wheter it's in the grocery store or on the television, things are presented in an over the top, grandiose way, sugiesting that a product or person is much more effective than it or they actually are. This is basic marketing, which has exist for ages. But the question arises, does this actually influence people in some way?

I would argue yes. Although they may seem benign on the surface. they can be influencing you subliminally without you even knowing it. Advertisers have been putting hidden images in ads for years. Liquor and cigarette ads often at one time contained images relative to a certain demographic within. Another thing they would do is design the ad in away that it would influence a certain type of person,regardless  an abused housewife, an alcoholic business man or a fall down drunk it the street, Jack Daniel's and Southern Comfort had something for you.It basically sugests that, regardless of lifestyle, you "need this", and your life will be so much better for purchasing it.

Another way things are presented in a false way is the presentation of "celebrities" in the media. Athletes, musicians, actors, even poloticians have all learned that they have to sell themselves as a better version of themselves than they actually are.A quick look at any remotley famous person's social media can be a quick exersise in flase presentation. And one needs look no further than former president Donald Trump in this regard. Despite questionable qualifications, his ability to captivate people both in the media and through entertainment ensured his win of the presidency. Cult of personality, as they say.

One last thing that many pople are subliminally influenced by is packaging. Any trip down the house cleaning or laundry isle is sure to assault the consummer with bold, brightly colored promises of "New!!" "Improved!!" "5x More Effective!!" "Advanced Formula!!" and so on. We may think we are immune, but it presents what would be a seemingly lackluster product into the ultimate solution, and how did I live my life without buying it before. It's also the reason fast food restaurants pick yellow and red for their logos. Not only are they power colors, they also have been found to stimulate hunger.

In conclusion, while it may not necissarily be moral, it's easy to see why things are presented to the public as greater than they actually are. Whether person or product, the objective is to sell sell sell. With this knowledge in mind, it's up to us as consumers, regardless of format, to be vigilant whne making decisions. This applies equally to the checkout as it does to Instagram and the voting booth.
