Being materialistic is a way of life in the United States. We all are brought up to enjoy life which means having a car, a home, nice clothes to wear and go on vacations to exotic places. I feel that is part of the attraction that America holds to the rest of the world. We give the impression that we are all rich and have these things in life. But we know better. We do and we strive to get all those materialistic things in life.

But why should our society be critized for being so materialistic? Is it wrong to have things that make our lives comfortable? Why should we feel bad for being so materialistic? I think that being materialistic is an offspring of capitalism. I will present my case to you to prove my point.

The American economy is based on capitalism that makes goods and provides services for the consumers of our society and the world. Capitalism is rampant among small businesses where they depend on consumers to use their products to make their lives richer. 

Small business outnumber large corporations and because of that have a shot of being as profitable as big businesses are. Business in general is the crux of capitalism. With a profitable business comes with perks. These perks are in the form of cars, homes, clothes and trips to exotic places. Just like I stated in the first paragraph. I feel that people start business to acquire these luxuries in life.

People work hard with long hours to make their business profitable. They take risks in life that they wouldn't have otherwise in any other type of endeavor. These businesses are their lifeblood and they believe in the product.

People that complain about not having a car, a nice home, clothes to wear probably haven't risked that much in their lives to get what they want out of life. We have to go to the edge of our perceived risk tolerance to get what we want out of life. We have to pass the insecure aspect of ourselves to get to the secure part.

Being conservative our whole lives will reflect in the materialistic items that we have in our lives.

Taking a chance in ourselves and believing in ourselves that we can make a difference will result in materialistic dreams a reality.  Without a dream goal and a roadmap to get what we want out life then we will never be able to achieve what we want. 

Some say that they do not want much out of life. Well whatever that is then it is still something that would make us content. We have to risk something to get it. That risk is measured in how much we believe in ourselves. That risk is measured in how much we really want to have it in our lives.

That dream is more evident in people that emigrate to the United States searching for that dream that will make them successful. These people are not looking for a handout from the government. They are looking for an opportunity to work and to learn so that they can start their own business.

The knowledge gained from a person starting from the groundfloor of a business is the best education that a person could ever get in life. They would know exactly what is needed and would be a force in the world once everything gets into place with his dream goals.

So being materialistic is good thing for any type of society. Materialism inspires competition to create better and better products for a society. Materialism inspires people to become creative to make life a joy to work at.

Without a materialistic mindset then a capitalistic society cannot exist. That mindset is imperative to have in order for a society to function and serve all of the people that need their products or services.
