      Often times I find myself asking the common question, What Causes Happiness? Many people think that you can find happiness when you try to reach goals that you have set for yourself such as dreams that they had as a child growing up or aspirations they have developed over the years and some believe that the only way to find true happiness is to help other people. My question is what is happiness? What is happiness to me compared to someone else. I believe happiness is found differently from person to person. I don't think everyone finds happiness in the exact same way. For instance for myself, I have found happiness in both helping others and doing things that I have always dreamed of. What makes me more happy? I think helping others brings out authentic happiness. 
     In my opinion true authentic happiness is achieved by helping others. I believe this because when you help someone you are doing this out of the kindness of your heart, you aren't gaining anything except knowing that you changed someone elses life. When you do things for yourself I believe you are happy when you achieve something, but I think its more being proud of your accomplishment than it is being happy about it. Helping people gives you a sense of accomplishment as well, but it makes you feel happy and good as a person to help someone in need. The feeling of seeing someone else happy and grateful for something you have done for them I think far exceeds any achievement you set for yourself whether its big or small. If you think about it we are all connected in some way, shape, or form and are all destined to return to the same place after we die. When thinking this way it resonates a feeling of needing to give. When we leave earth we won't have any materialistic things with us, we won't have our degrees, our houses, nor our cars or possessions, we will only have the things we have done. We will leave behind a legacy. We will leave behind all the kind things we have done for our friends, our family, our community, strangers, and even people we never met. To me thats the kind of happiness I want to achieve. Knowing I helped people and I made the world more kinder and a better place to live for someone. Wouldn't you want to achieve this same happiness?m     I am aware that some people might disagree with me. Why should we help people that might be ungrateful and not appreciate the things we do for them when we can do things for ourselves and be happy with that? Well I hear you. Thats a big turn off. No one wants to go out of there way to help someone when they won't appreiciate it, but let me ask you this. Wouldn't you feel happier knowing that you tried to help someone? Wouldn't it be so much better to be seen as kind and caring then selfish? Focusing on yourself for happiness does indeed work, but for how long? Look at the struggles it took to achieve this happiness? Was it worth all the heartache and long hours trying to achieve something that you might not even want in a few days? Months? Years? Happiness can only go so far. How are you going to feel about the person you are when your clock stops ticking? Will you be truly happy with all of the dreams you may or may not have completed? Or would you be more happy with the memories and journies you took helping other people? Memories that you can't take away. Think of your family for a moment. Wouldn't seeing them happy and healthy make you the happiest person alive? I know thats all I want. I want everyone especially my family to be happy and healthy. Seeing the ones I care about doing well and being able to help them achieve that is the best happiness I could ever ask for. 
    So in conclusion I think the best way to achieve true authentic happiness is in helping others around me. I have been very unhappy in times and the most happiness I have ever achieved was being able to help my family through a rough finanical time. Seeing how happy and relieved they were and grateful for me will always be in the back of my mind. When I leave this earth I know that I will leave behind a legacy of kindness and everyone will remember how good of a perosn I was and how I tried to help everyone I could. To me happiness is connecting with our sisters and brothers of the world and finding peace together despite the costs. Knowing that we are all together and trying our best to make the world a better place is all the happiness I could ever need. I feel like everyone can also find this happiness if they are willing to open their hearts and trying to see it first hand for themselves. I think you will agree that you are more likely to find happiness helping others. Being selfless is the best way to be truly genuinely happy.
