  We live in a very complicated world. Throughout history we've seen leaders rise and fall; nations and their inhabitants following suit. Many people believe that competition is the driving force to immenant destruction and that cooperation between individuals and groups of people creates more success.  Competition is argued to be a great motivator for working hard and achieving desired goals. Cooperation on the other hand, enables more than one person to work together towards a single goal. People are more than likely to achieve success when they cooperate with each other. 

  While looking at great leaders throughout history, we tend to see the greatest and fiercest to be the most competitive amongst other nations, and thus the most dreadful. We see their thirst for more power driven by the force of their competitive eagerness to claim more. Leaders like Adolf Hitler turn their competition into an evil desire to change the world and into something perverse and unnatural. People who work together-such as the United States and Her allies-can dismantle great leaders who wish to harm us. Just like in WWII when the US and Her allies joined together to fight and bring down the very man who killed millions of Jewish people.

  Competition is great for us in the sense that it is good and healthy to play games, and play athletics against each other to win status or to win prizes. Competition pushes us to achieve goals and to set those apart who really push themselves to be the best at something. Competiton at times, is a good thing because it helps people stand out for their accomplishments. Success is rather subjective; competition and cooperation reach different facets of success. If we're looking towards monetary or personal advancement then competition could be a winner. However, when speaking in terms of humanity, we can only thrive and succeed in a thriving community if we band together. This is why cooperation is humanity's biggest success, because when people work together toward a goal, we can ward off those who wish to harm us. Competition's end goal is to seperate the "best" from those who arent. Cooperation helps us to lift each other up and to help each other. 

  So while we live in a very complicated world, we also follow very simple ideas when it comes to how we interact with those around us. We tend to be very fond of those we are very close to, and weary of those we don't trust. Competition drives the wedge between those who are weary, whereas, cooperation forces us to band together and set aside our differences for a very important goal.


