People should be happy doing what they think is right. You have to take care of things that need to be taken care. Once you have taken care of your chores that you need to do everyday then enjoy what you would like to. When I have everything taken care of I feel so much better. 

You can have dreams of what you would like your life to be like. But if you do not follow through with it you will not be happy. Do not avoid things that need to be done. You need to stay close to everyone in your family. If you do not you will regret it later. 

Enjoy what you need to do. Cleaning, taking care of the yard, taking care of family is so satisfying and then you feel you have completed your goals. Write down what you need to complete everyday, including what you want to do that relaxes you and makes you feel happy. 

Spend time with family and friends, have cookouts. invite them over to have fun together. 

Decorate for all holidays. It makes you feel happy to see different decorations for each occations. It makes your home feel chearful. When you are decorating for each holiday give your house a good cleaning. 

In the spring watch the flowers grow. Put outside decorations out. Fountains, solar lights and just statues and figurines. When you are outside looking aroung you can enjoy looking at everything.  You will see the different flowers bloom at different times of the year. You do have to take care of pulling the weeds but once you are done everything looks so beautiful. 

Have a garden, watch the plants grow. You do have to take care of pulling those weeds also. You have the enjoyment of seeing your vegatables grow. Then you can pick them and make delicious meals and breads. You can freeze some of your vegatables and have them at later dates on holidays or whenever you want to enjoy them. If you grow pumpkins and gourds you can watch them grow and see the different shapes. Once they are done we set everything up for Halloween and we sell pumpkins and gourds and everything you can think of for Halloween. You can see how happy people are when they come to our sale and see the different pumpkins and gourds and corn we have grown. And how happy the children are riding our rides and playing the games we have. I am so happy to see other people enjoy what I have done. 

Then when Christmas comes I enjoy decorating the house all up for Christmas and going shopping for everyone. Cooking a good Christmas dinner. Using the corn and beans I have frozen. It was a lot nicer when the kids and grandkids were younger they all seemed to enjoy Christmas so much. Now the older people that are invited seem to enjoy there self more than the younger people. 

Kids now days do not want to help anyone, do any decorating or even going to any family parties. They only want to stay on there phones or computers. I wish they could participate more I think they would be happier.

You can go and have fun at the Casino just don't take money that you cannot afford to loose. If you play with smaller bets your money will last longer and you will also have fun and a chance to win big. 

Some people only think about there self. Everything circulates around them. They are usually not as happier as everyone that takes care of stuff.




