Imagine walking through a store, passing by colorful packaging lying about the contents inside. Imagine waching television and other media, bombarded by  entertainers, politicians, and other public figures who appear to be more critical to society than what abilities they posses. Such images and impressions have too much of an effect on people and prevent them realizing the true reality. 
In the grocery store, you see many products that lie on their packaging but they are just pretty lies to make you feel better. Many foods say they are all natural by having green packaging, but are not any more natural than some other. Many people believe that gluten free foods are healthier, but actually they have no benefit to most people. A lot of animal products also feature lies in their appearance. "Cage-free" eggs do not prove much about the conditions of the chickens. It is not good that people do not see beyond the appearances when it comes to food.
Another example of the harm of images and impressions is when people with no talent become popular on social media and become "influences", often just for having a pretty face. There was one young man who killed a mom and child in a street race, and many people defended him, continued to adore him just for his looks. Imagine being the family, seeing the one who killed your loved ones being defended. 
Some people may argue that that images and impressions do not have too much of an effect on people. That people being distracted by the impressions that are put on. But there has been such a negative effect on people by being mistaking by reality. It is all around us. People are depressed from lies on social media. Politicians such as Donald Trump have caused people to take dangerous actions. These things are quite harmful. It is not okay for these appearances to have such a negative effect on the world. 
In conclusion images and impressions have too much of an effect. In the future people should take action to see the truth behind the images that are put in the front of their eyes. It is time to shine a light towards the truth.
