It is very apparent that competition is a huge part of our culture. Every time we turn on the tv there are ads for different services in different industries and their main focus is to grab your attention. When it comes to personal success, we are able to harness this power of competition to be able to achieve our goals and push through the harder moments in life. However, I believe that cooperation is a better power to harness than competition.

Firstly, cooperation with others is far more useful when trying to achieve goals. For example, imagine if you had to move a couch all by yourself from your house to a moving truck. There is no amount of competition you can have as a mindset that can erase the fact that you have to move this couch by yourself. Now, imagine if you had a friend who is helping you move the couch. You now have 2 people working toward a common goal. Not only is this more effecient but this is also more practical. Although many tasks in life can be accomplished by yourself, I believe it is fair to say that many of the skills you picked up along the way you probably picked up from another person. If that is the case, then you would have needed to cooperate with someone else in order to firmly grasp the concepts the other person was trying to give you. Cooperation (depending on the context of a given situation, i.e. a work setting) is not only necessary but a vital part of the human expereince in general.

Competition has its place in our lives as well. When we see professional athletes do what they do best in their respective sports, they are operating at the highest level of competition possible. Their drive and willingness to succeed is apparent and motivating to the general public. It is easy to see why millions of people will tune in to watch Steph Curry in the NBA Finals right now because he is competing at the highest level with other athletes at that level for a championship. Humans also use competition to see where they stand in a certain field as well. I've often seen this with marathon runners where they will continually participate in marathons with the intention of finishing under a given time rather than being the first one to finish the race. We even see competition in the animal kingdom where males will fight each other to see who will be the one to get the female. Competition allows us to discover that we have a greater potential than we think and we just need to tap into it.

It's fair to say that any sort of achievements can be utilized with the prescence of competition or cooperation. However, I believe that competition is more fear-based than cooperation. You can also take a group of 5 people and all have them work on something and you can have one person who does not care about the group or the group objective and instead has their own objective. The size of a goal must be taken into account as well. It's very easy for someone to win a baking competition when they have 3 people with them in contrast to someone who comes into the competition alone and thinks they can win this all by themselves. It's very clear that the group with 3 people will have a bigger advantage (theoretically). At the end of the day, I believe that group chemistry is far superior and stronger than competition. I think it is more impressive when less people achieve a harder task but success is more likely when cooperation is happening.
