The world would be a better place if people worked together. Cooperation is the key to a successful society.

In our current global climate, people like to focus on themselves and what they can achieve. But what if as a society people learned to work together, cooperating with each other. I propose that working together can bring forth greater victory and accomplishment than working alone. 

 A man can produce an idea, but when he gathers people around him to help achieve his dream, he has gained more power to accomplish the end result. Two people working together is not only twice as successful, but multiple times as successful. One reason is that many different ideas and ways of thinking can produce greater results. Also, when one person gets tired or wants to slack off, the others pick up the slack and can ultimately lead the team to victory. In my own life, I have found that I am more successful when I cooperate with others around me to achieve my goals. It keeps me more accountable and lends to better decision making. 

My father built a house, he could have done everything on his own as he is very knowledgable and capable, but he realized that others may have more skill in certain areas that enabled him to get the house built faster as well as do a better job then he could have done given their years of experience. For example, his brother is a plumber, so he  had him help him with the plumbing. He also has a friend who lays floors and he had that friend help with the flooring. My father did do the sheetrock and mudding himself, but he should have asked for help since it took him way too long and lots of trial and error. Having someone knowledgable with mudding would have helped him more in the long run.

When a group of people come together for a common cause, their vision can last long into the future. Just look at the civil rights movement that took place in the 60's. It's significants and effect can be felt to this day. Had many people not chosen to stand up together for equal rights and to end segregation, we would not see the significant results that that movement had. It took many coming together to accomplish the dreams and visions.

Many people might think that a man is a rock unto himself, that they do not need help and that they can accomplish anything they want to on their own. But I would challenge them to consider how much more they could achieve if they gathered others to help them achieve their goals.  I have been training for a marathon. I tend to be very independant and do things on my own. In my training, I have started doing my long runs with a group of friends. This has challenged me to not only go farther, but to also go faster and push myself more than I would. I can see why cooperating towards a goal equals better results.

I hope that the world becomes a place where we see more people cooperating and less single mindedness. I think cooperation is ultimately the best choice and will make for a better society. 
