     Happiness and contentment are two goals of most every person on earth.  The Declaration of Independence even includes "the pursuit of happiness" as an unalienable right of all people. Additionally,we constantly see advertisements for products or programs designed to make people happier about their physical appearance, financial situation, or life in general. If the persuit of happiness wasn't important to people, advertisers wouldn't use that in order to persuade people to buy their products and services. How do people persue happiness?  Some work towards their own personal goals and dreams while others find happiness in helping others.  I believe that true happiness is more easily obtained when people focus on the happiness of others and do things to help others reach their happiness.
     In my personal experience, I have felt the most happiness when doing things to increase the happiness of others.  There have been times when I have been upset or down about my own circumstances; but when I turn the focus to others and helping them, my problems seem to fade into the background and I am able to share in the happiness of the person I have helped.  These experiences range from helping students solve personal, social, and academic problems to helping adults make progress with their own children.
     I believe that when you put out into the world what you are needing or seeking, then it comes back to you.  If you are needing validation about something, validate someone else.  If you are needing someone to check up on you, check up on someone else.  If you are needing praise or an "atta boy", praise someone else.  Those things then generally either come back to you or cause you to take your focus off yourself.  When that happens, your happiness level increases.
     There are people who state that the only way to be happy is to build your own happiness, work hard, and reach your own personal goals.  I ask them, "Then what?"  What happens when you reach that first goal?  Is that enough to make and keep you happy for the rest of your life?  Do you set another goal and keep working to improve?  What happens if no matter what you do, you cannot meet the goal you set? I don't know that I would find and maintain happiness if it depended on how my life and progress towards my goals were at that given time.  I have felt satisfaction when I make progress, but there are too many times when setback happens through no fault of our own.  There are promotions that weren't give due to someone else's personal preference or bias.  There are emergencies that happen that threaten our financial goals.  There are natural disasters that could destroy the things we have. Those setbacks should not keep us from being happy.  
     In the end, happiness, and the pursuit of it, is an extremely personal experience.  What satisfies one person and makes them happy wouldn't even make someone else smile.  I contend that there is nothing more universally joy inducing than making someone else's day or situation better and making them happier.  Foucusing on self does help us reach our personal goals, but it also highlights all of our shortcomings and sebacks in a way that can rob us of our happiness.  Helping others moves the focus away from ourselves and our personal, but often temporary, circumstances.  Maybe the true key to happiness is to set some personal goals for self-improvement, but also include some goals for "other-improvement." Then, one person at a time, we can make the world a better place and find our contentment in that. 
