As the saying goes, the first impression is a lasting one. Images and impressions have always and will always have a strong effect on people. How can they not? We are constantly having to make split second decisions based on our first impressions. We are deciding between a multitude of items when trying to narrow down what to buy in a store or online. We are also constantly bombarded with information from media sources.

We have all heard the schpeel given when discussing sterotyping and biases. Our brains are wired to make split second decisions. The brains of our faraway ancestors had to unconciously take in information constantly in order to assess for danger else they get eaten by a mammoth or what have you. While we no longer have mammoths to worry about, we do still need to constantly assess our surroundings. This requires making split second decisions based on past experiences or stereotypes.  

Brands are now, more than ever, focusing on packaging or on image versus the content and quality of their product. Every time you walk into a store, there are an overwhelming number of products for every category. You want to buy toothpaste? There are 200 options, each with slightly different wording or a different, catchy slogan. Most people do not research every product ahead of time and instead look for the best looking packaging or the catchiest slogan. This toothpaste promises to whiten your teeth 97% better, is approved by 99% of dentists, and is eye-catching. I am sold. 

The media is also responsible for so many of out impressions these days, whether good or bad, true or false. Here is a real life example: I moved to Chicago two months ago from Nashville. I was constantly being told how dangerous it is and how I would not be able to go anywhere or do anything safely. The people telling me this were not from Chicago and most had not even visited but the media gave them the impression that it was a lawless and danger-filled land. I have not once felt unsafe or been involved in even one shooting incident. 

While first impressions are lasting impressions, we are able to attempt to alter the impressions we have. Understanding our implicit and explicit biases is one way to combat the impressions presented to us. Another way is to resist buying an item based on brand name or packaging and instead research the product, look at ingredients, and read reviews. We should all strive to focus less on appearance and more on content. Just because a family looks altogether on Instagram, a product is in the brightest box, a politician spends the most on a campaign, or a person walking down the street is not wearing the nicest clothes means nothing. These things do not dictate the content of the product or the person. 

In the end, though, most people are unable to work through these first impressions or these lasting impressions for one reason or another. We are not always able to research a product. We are not always able to peek behind the curtain to really get to know a celebrity or a politician. Sometimes we have to rely on the information provided for us, even if it means accepting whatever reality is presented to us. The only true way to partially combat the hold that images and impressions have over us would be to standarized everything and if you have seen The Giver or The Haidmaiden's Tale, you can understand why that outcome is more ideal in thought than in practice.
