I think whether someone will find happiness focusing on their personal needs or by focusing on the needs of others varies between individuals. I do not think there is any one way to find happiness that works for everyone. To assess whether an individual should focus on their personal goals or the goals of others, I think you should first examine their personality and ideological values. Knowing how someone thinks and what their priorities are informs a decision on what goals someone should pursue better than applying a general rule to everyone, in my opinion.

When assessing the various traits of someone's personality to determine what goals they should focus on, I believe that you should be aware of their level of empathy towards others, personal interests, and overall vision for what they want their life to be in the future. For example, a small but nonetheless significant percentage of people in the US are diagnosed with Antisocial Personality Disorder (ASPD). Individuals with ASPD have a notably reduced level of empathy towards others, as well as tendencies to lie, engage in dangerous and risky activities, and manipulate the people around them. Since people with ASPD feel considerably less empathy for others than the average person, they would likely be more satisfied focusing on their personal goals than focusing on the goals of others. Conversely, some people are kind and generous by nature, and naturally derive enjoyment from helping others. In this case, they would likely be more satisfied focusing on the goals of others. As another example, if someone has an intense interest in a certain career field but does not feel it is practical to go into it due to their current financial obligations and/or responsibilities to others, they may be more happy pursuing their area of interest when they have gained the financial security required to do so. If someone does not have any intense personal interests but wants a steady supply of money to provide for others, they may gain more fulfillment from focusing on the goals of others. Finally, and possibly most importantly, I think that people should make decisions about their life goals based on what their overall vision for a future life is. If someone focuses on realizing the goals of others but is not given a sufficient opportunity to explore their own interests, they may later realize that they are unfulfilled working towards the goals of others. Conversely, if someone envisions themself as being someone who provides for others, they may not feel they have a purpose unless they are providing for others. Overall, I think that individuals should make decisions about what goals to pursue in life based on their individual circumstances and priorities, because ultimately only that person knows what will make them happy. 

In conclusion, I believe that individuals should make the decision to pursue either their goals or the goals of others based on their individual circumstances, priorities, and vision in life. I do not think that any one rule for how to pursue happiness will apply for everyone. People are individualistic beings at their core, and what makes them happy varies between individuals. When you try to make every individual in a large group of people do something in exactly the same way, there will inevitably be people who dissent and want to do that thing in a different way. I believe that deciding to focus on the goals of others is also a personal decision, since ultimately only that person can fully understand what would make them happy and enact the deeds that focusing on that goal involves. 
