Today's popular culture feels more attainable than ever to young people. That is, more young people today expect to have a place in shaping culture than ever before. Social media seems to have levelled the playing field for fame, making fame feel attainable to more people than ever. Enjoyers of social media content want to feel the way their favorite influencers' posts make them feel, all the time. 

Are the lives of influencers really the happy lives they seem to portray, though? Are the lives influencers show us indicative of their lives off-camera? It's well known that platforms like Instagram promote aesthetically pleasing or lavish-looking images, leading influencers to use everything from careful curation to face-altering filters to make sure their pictures reach the widest audience possible. Is this beneficial to anyone besides the influencer's sponsor? When people take influencers' online posts as accurate portrayals of the reality of their lives, it plants a seed of expectations (especially in young people) that the influencers' presentation of themselves is a goal to strive for.

Some say influencers are just entertainers like any other show business performer, and that social media is just for fun and shouldn't be taken so seriously. Social media, however, is very different from Hollywood in that "ordinary people" seem to be on more or less equal footing with influencers (many of whom seem to have started out as "ordinary people" themselves despite perhaps concealing sources of family income enabling them to spend money on luxurious home decor and procedures to alter their appearance).

The putting forth of aesthetically-perfected facades on social media has too much "influence" over young people's self images and self confidence. It is the natural result of influencers being presented as "ordinary people" living lavish lifestyles, and the natural progression from Hollywood's and Madison Avenue's longtime influence on people's self attitudes via images in advertising, movies, and television. Our society would do well to shift focus from images and impressions to authentic reality as it is, good and bad, pretty and ordinary.
