There is a common question that is asked amongst humanity in the journey of life. That question is, "what truly makes us happy?" Is happiness gotten through the pursuit of our own goals and amibitions ever trying to reach the mountain top that we want to climb to, or is happiness gotten through helping others and spreading good faith. I believe the answer to this question lies in the accomplishment of ones dreams and goals. In this essay I will supply multiple viewpoints that support this position that focusing on ones personal goals will make people happier. 

Succesfully accomplishing ones personal goals often leads to a feeling of satisfaction in life. This feeling of satisfaction can lead one to be more happy with their own position in life. In some cases depending on what the person own personal goals are they can also lead to a better life financially and because of this they too can live a better life. Being in a better financial position while also accomplishing their own amibitions would lead to someone being happier in their own life. That being said, money is not the answer to everything it is just a bonus where the true accomplishment and happiness comes from successfully accomplishing ones personal goals. Sometimes someones personal goals can lead them to a job or profession that also makes them happy. There is a saying that if "you find something you enjoy that you basically will never work a day in your life". I do agree with this saying as I have worked multiple jobs that were not part of my own personal goals and I have battled stints of depression and lethargy because of this. Once I started working towards my own personal goals and finding a professions that was within the realm of what I enjoy I started feeling much happier and more pleasure in my day to day life. There is also the viewpoint that ones own personal happiness will suffer if they only live in regret of what once could be. What I mean by this is that if one does not go after their goals or at least attempt them that someone could live in the past and never move forward. They would always be left wondering what could have been and if they would be happier if they had gone towards their own personal goals. It is because of this  that focusing on ones personal goals will lead someone to their own happiness.

 Now I would be remiss to not also cover the other point of view that if you help others you can find happiness. Now that is a good point and often doing a small favor for someone or seeing the smile on their face after helping someone that can make yourself happy as well. That being said, it is important to realize this is often a short term feeling of happiness. At the end of the day you are the one left with yourself and your own thoughts. If you do not accomplish your goals in life what is the point of living? Living a life of regret is not something I would wish on anyone. I mention this viewpoint because it is to stress how important it is to follow your own personal goals for the long term because that is what truly will bring you a better life and personal happiness.

In conclusion, this is a highly debated topic but hopefully with the arguments I have provided that you too agree with the sentiment that going towards your own goals would bring you more personal happiness than helping others. I hope that you will be blessed going towards your chosen ambitions and become happy. 

