You may have heard it said, "don't judge a book by its cover", however, it's hard not to judge the book when judgement is a behavior that has been taught to us by society. It's no secret that humans are obsessed with appearances - millions of dollars are spent in the cosmetic industry and in the marketing industry each year. It's the appearances that can promote different products whether food products or household goods or even the personal brand of each individual. However, little emphasis is actually put on how good the product actually is or how well the person does xyz job. Therefore, I've come to the conclusion that images and impressions have too great of an influence on people. 

As one example, when people go to the supermarket to buy fruits and vegetables, they always look for the best looking one - the fruit or vegetable that has no bruises and that looks emmaculate in appearance. However, these fruits and vegetables will often times taste the exact same as the produce with no bruises. Another example is how people judge and treat each other. If someone is dressed in clothing that is tattered and torn with dirt, one might assume that this person is poor or homeless. This, in turn, will influence how a person treats the person in the tattered clothing - one might try to offer them money or ignore them completely. However, the person in the tattered clothing might simply be someone who is working in the yard or perhaps they have been in some sort of an accident that has torn and dirtied their clothes. Either way, we as humans put way too much emphasis on how things look on the outside. We then judge this and let this influence our behavior - whether that is our purchasing behavior or simply how we treat another human being. 

With that being said, there are times that judgement of appearances can be useful. For instance, if a food looks and smells rotten, the chances are that you would believe you shouldn't eat it because it would make you sick. This can prevent you from being sick in some cases. However, there are also certain cheese that can look and smell rotten and these cheeses are valued for their flavor profiles. Additionally, there are times that you might judge that someone looks incapable of lifting a heavy object due to their size. Because of this, you might choose to lift an object for them because you assumed they were not capable of lifting it. In some cases, this could prevent injury in the smaller person. However, for all you know, this person could be a powerlifter and capable of lifting even more than you can. It's hard to see the whole story without getting all of the facts first. Yes, appearances can be informative, but apperances are only half of the information. There is so much more to a person or object then their appearance or the impression that they make upon you. In conclusion, there is certainly a time and place for judgement based on apperances, however, all information needs to be extracted before letting this judgement influence our behavior. 
