Look around yourself right now and take note of what you see-- are you at home surrounded by items you've collected over the years? Are you at work, in an office decorated with personal items? Are you in a shop full of trending new items? Wherever you are, I can almost guarantee one thing, there's a lot of "stuff". Today's society focuses heavily on having nice, new, trendy things-- and lots of it. Some people may view the desire to have this "stuff" as materialistic, but is this fair? "Stuff" is pushed on society everywhere you look, especially social media, which is full of advertisements convincing people that they need the newest, "best", trendiest, things. Materialism should not be criticized in modern society because of all of this advertisement and the effect that it has on people.

Advertisement is everywhere we look. If you have a cell phone handy, take it out and open any social media app you have installed. Scroll until you see an ad-- I bet it won't take long. Ads are everywhere, and they advertise everything--clothes, food, experiences, decorations-- everything. Ads commonly feature people who appear happy and successful, leading viewers to feel that they will feel the same way if they purchase the product. Companies often pay social media influencers to promote their products in this fashion, which has a big impact on their following. When someone sees an influencer that they love and relate to suggesting that they buy something, they're likely to at least consider it. People want to be happy and successful, so if they see a happy and successful person suggesting something, they'll think that the product plays a part in that happiness/success. In my opinion, there is nothing bad or wrong with wanting these things for yourself. And while products are not necessarily the way to acheive it, advertisements try to make it seem that way. People buy things because of this, which may be materialistic, but it should not be criticized due to the heavy influence of advertisement.

Almost everyone in modern society can be called materialistic. Society has made us this way by flooding so much of our lives with advertisements. Advertisements make people believe that products will improve their lives, which makes them likely to buy more than what they should or what they need. This materialism should not be criticized-- instead, we should be criticizing the companies that advertise in deceiving ways.
