Wandering through the shopping mall in the year 2022 is like living in an alternate reality. Gone are the popular teen hangouts with secret corners, families bustling for back to school clothes, and a whole other slew of nostalgic memories -- what is left is, frankly, a shell of itself. The malls are empty and the stores are flashing bargain sales with neon signs in their large windows. However, as I walk through the vacant halls, I notice something peculiar: a small booth in the center of the sitting area, pink and orange, dressed with fake plants and high-end furniture, being touted as a "social media photo booth." There are two teenage girls posing with their bags from H&M. Despite the fact that this mall is on the verge of death, they are smiling like it is the most exciting place on Earth. This is the face of modern consumerism and materialism... and while some may be quick to defend it as a simple evolution of the times, we really must reflect on the issues such a trend imposes. Modern society should be thoughtfully criticized for its descent into materialism because it is damaging young people's self-esteem, giving brands too much power, and furthering class divides.

To begin, materialism as a cultural value is a threat to the self-esteem of younger generations--especially women! When I look at those two teenage girls posing for Instagram photos, I bear no ill will towards them or their hobbies. Social media is inherently performative for most young people -- myself included, even. Websites like Instagram, TikTok, and even the old Facebook have evolved into a realm where people are expected to push only the best narratives of themselves. I am not one to say that social media has no reality to it--because it does--but any critical eye could see the filters that this reality is run through before making it to followers and feeds. Social media has added fuel to the fire of materialism in this way. Even if it never gets explicitly said, everyone uses it to tout their STUFF. Even the background of a house in a TikTok video has an air of materialism to it; the products used in the kitchen, the size of the yard, the quality of the tile... It's inescapable. And this is before the explicit stuff: shopping hauls, brand reviews, dress-up-with-mes, etc. On one hand, people may say that this broadens the horizons of what an individual may be exposed to, elevating their pop culture, fashion, and trend knowledge. But to those people we have to ask... what psychological effect might this have on the kids who can't GET those things? A young girl growing up in a trailer park may idolize any number of Instagram influencers with designer clothes and a two-story house, but this idolization is inevitably going to make that young girl reflect on the very things that she lacks. She will feel inadequate, confused, and perhaps even resentful of her family for not having the wealth to join the social media stars. This creates a cycle of harm between people and STUFF. People want stuff. People can't have stuff. People desperately need stuff. People fall into negative self-talk and harmful thinking because they don't have the stuff. So on, and so forth.

Furthermore, this creates a whole new issue when we begin to reflect on where this STUFF even comes from: brands. Brand loyalty has been around since the early twentieth century, but with the consumer boom of the 1980s it escalated. With the social media and internet boom of the new millenium, that escalator became a skyrocket. Many people--again, largely young women who are being raised in this environment, but it can apply to men and other genders as well--feel that brands must become their identity. They feel a personal connection to a brand fed by a desire to have that brand because they saw XYZ wearing it online, or it's popular at school, or the brand itself pushed a narrative that brand = cool. When these young people can't get that brand, they feel like they have lost a sense of their identity... and that's not their fault! It is a cultural issue rooted in the rampant nature of materialism. Materialism by definition equates STUFF with personal worth, so it's no wonder that so many people feel a sense of emptiness when they can't get the stuff that speaks to them. I felt this myself as a teenager, even; I wanted to dress certain ways, have certains things, give off a certain self-described "vibe." When I couldn't? I felt worthless, especially when I could go online and see other people emulating that exact aura I wanted myself to have. Some people may think that there's nothing wrong with building a personal attachment to a brand or style. After all, we as humans build silly personal attachments to so many things! Sports, music, celebrities, locations, etc. However, the issue with brands that these people fail to see is that in this situation, the corporation suddenly has ALL the power. They have a hold over people that is not only financial, but emotional and even spiritual in extreme cases. This creates a slippery slope where corporations are driving decision-making and lives of consumers. And in a late capitalism landscape, we are all consumers. It is hard to escape this scenario when materialism is a core value of society.

Ultimately, the biggest issue that all of the aforementioned creates is a sense of isolation and division among the people. Some brands brag about their inclusivity and "family" and sense of togetherness for their consumers and staff, but a corporation cannot have a soul. Their interest is financial only, and anything else is showboating for that singular purpose. For the people that are loyal to them, yearning for them, or even actively fighting against them ("all press is good press," after all), there is no togetherness. There is the resentment of the working class that they cannot have the same things the upper class does. There is the social hierarchy in young teenagers where some will never be "good enough" for others because they don't have the opportunity to devote themselves to brands. There is the culture vs counterculture, where those opposed to certain brands will fight and judge those that stand by them. In today's climate, we cannot afford these divisions. With political issues abound, geopolitical tensions at an all-time high, and society barely being held together at the seams in the recovery of a global pandemic, one more division might be what it takes to break us. And others may say that this is dramatic. They may say that, of all the things we just listed, materialism and consumerism is the least important. Frankly, they're right-- other things are surely more important! But does that make materialism immune to criticism? Is it not being the biggest issue mean that it's not an issue at all? Furthermore, if it really is "not as big of a deal" as these people assert, then theoretically that should mean that it may be the easiest issue in our world to fix first. Why not start here then?

Of course, there is no "fix" for a cultural value that has built over centuries. Materialism did not become what it was today overnight, so it cannot be erased overnight. However, there are things we can do to stop it one step at a time. We can start coaching and building self-worth for young people beyond STUFF. We can be transparent with brands and demand actual accountability from them beyond just their empty words and promises of togetherness. We can see brands for what they are and stop pretending they're something they're not. In such divided times, above all, we can stick together!
