Many people often claim that success comes to those who are well mannered and cooperate with their peers in a collaborative manner. While this may be a very common opinion amongst the majority of people, I believe that often times the importance of competition is overlooked. From my own personal experience, I think that competition has been a motivator for me and has led to some of the best triumphs of my life. Without having some sort of competition to drive you I find that people will often get complacent and cannot acheive their full potential. This especially true when comparing with cooperative environments, which can often times result in one person doing the lionshare of the work and leaving much to be desired.

One example of when being competitive was more advantageous that being cooperative was when I was in college. As it turned out, some of my college classes capped grades in a class so that only 20% of the class could get A's no matter the raw scores. This meant that you could get an A on all your exams and assignments but still potentially be curved down to a lower grade if everyone else did equally well in the class. In this sort of environment it was much better to be competitve and not help everyone in the class because you had to do better than everyone else to get a decent grade. Many people may have wanted help, but this would have hurt your own chances at getting a good grade because someone else might score better on their own examas a result of your help. With this philosophy in mind, it drove me to focus on my own success and led me to getting a good grade in those classes.

In conclusion, I believe there are much more benefits involved with being competitive rather than cooperative. The reality is that the society we live in is cutthroat and competitive. If you don't compete with others to earn your position than someone else might just go ahead and take it from you. Besides this, competition always works as a great motivator to bring out your best work. Whether its in atheletics or academics the feeling of someone else potentially surpassing you motivates you like no other. This competitve spirit is ultimately necessary in some form or another to bring out your greatest potential. 
