How do we achieve enduring success?  To answer this question, most people focus on the end result or the outcome.  This stage, which many of us recognize as an interview, the free market, or a championship game, lead many to believe that competition is the way in which winners and losers are determined. However, outcomes are the result of a process in which cooperation is required to build the winning position that allows one to be successful. 

Take the example of a getting a job.  Usually the winning candidate gets the job by doing better during the interview process.  However, how does one actually win in an interview?  You prepare. You study.  You learn how to read the room.  You learn about yourself and the company you work for.  This takes building human capital and a reputation that will make you shine during the interview and as they check your references.  For this, cooperation with previous bosses, coworkers, and teachers to build your reputation and skill set.  What's more, even if you do win the interview, is it winning if you get fired soon after?  No, it requires you to cooperate with your new coworkers and bosses to take that interview win into a career. 

Looking to other examples like earning your place as a market share winning product or service, you are always establishing partnerships with suppliers and relationships with customers.  Building a superior product means nothing if in the process of doing so, you rip off suppliers or have bad customer relationships. Rather, to establish a lasting and prosperous market position, you have to build through cooperation.  Without this network of satisfied customers and suppliers you will not win in the market for long.  

Therefore, given the choice between seeing competition as an end unto itself versus the end of a process of hard work, creativity, and relationship building, I choose the later. And, to emerge as the best from this process, you cannot view the world as a series of discrete competitions where winning is the only thing that matters and leave a scorched earth of everyone you encounter is irrelevant.  Rather, a more successful and winning formula is to view your path to sucess as a series of repeated interactions that build relationships that raises everyone up in the process and posits the possibility of creating a bigger pie of success that everyone can share in. Surely this is better than fighting over the spoils of a small pie that leaves the bitter crumbs of endless ruthless competition.  

