An interesting question befalls many people of today's society, do we acheive more success by cooperation or by competition? I would like to say competition is better, why? Because it's important to have people challenge you. I am not talking about insulting one another, no, I am talking about disagreements. As long as it's reasonable, disagreeing with someone else's idea can be beneficial. Cooperation seems fine, but you're not really being challenged. We may never know if your idea is bad, but people won't care and agree with you anyways. So what does this say about us? Precisely, it's human nature to be competitive, we yearn for such. I am not talking about trivialities such as war, no, I am merely talking about offering constructive criticism to help improve one another WHICH competition falls under. I think it's very important to note that when you come across someone who hates it when they have people disagree with them, it just means they don't want to improve! You see, someone needs to be able to keep you on your toes so that you become a better woman or man. Am I saying be mean? No, though being blunt can be misinterpreted as such sadly. Be as tactful as possible and challenge others, and you should be able to welcome challenge yourself so you don't seem like a hypocrite. Cooperation is bad sometimes because there could be someone whose ideas are intolerable, but in order to acheive success you'd have to put up with it. No! They need to be the ones to change otherwise the team fails. I think you all are familiar with competitive video gaming, yes? Have you ever noticed that in E Sports there are two teams against each other? Or 1 vs 1? Let me point out the fact that rivalries are healthy as long as it's tactful. Gaming fortunately promotes this philosophy. Each and every one of these gamers want to WIN, yes? THIS FALLS UNDER COMPETITION which was precisely what I was talking about earlier, human nature yearns for such. This just about wraps this up for why I think competition leads to more success than cooperation... Remember, competition is important for human improvisation. Without it, we would be very unhappy or rather stagnant. I don't think being stagnant is ideal for anyone that is looking to improve themselves. Thank you for reading! 
