Materialism the thing America loves the most. Getting, obtaining, finding, stealing, something for nothing...money, things, items, anything that will make us better than our neighbor. A house, a car, a nice suit of clothes, the best makeup, the finest electronics, the most pets, the most exotic living arrangement. This is the thing American dreams are made of, and this is the subject that this essay will be addressing. 

Materialism, materialism, materialism. Many people say it is a bad thing, but there are many other people who see no problem with it. What is wrong with wanting more for your family and future posterity the supporters say. This is what America was built upon...or was it? 

It is as wrong as putting the wrong shoe on the wrong foot the rivals proclaim. There is nothing worse than being so selfish as to put yourself in front of others, and putting your needs and desires in the fore. People should desire eternal things such as relationships, love, the supernatural. God should be placed in front of all other things, for life after death means much more than anything that we will leave behind on earth. 

What is the point of obtaining all the things of the world, when one cannot even take them to the other side of death? If the afterlife is real should'nt we spend more time trying to figure out how to get there instead of setting our whole life towards obtaining more and more meaningless things? We should find meaning in life by doing for others, giving to others, and serving others.

People should seek out the Lord through His inspired Holy Word. People should be concerned with bringing people to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ instead of working vainly for money and materials than in the end will rust and come to waste. We should not be wasting every second of every day trying to better ourselves, when there are so many people who need Christ. 

Will anyone remember our strivings to obtain everything in the world? Or will they rather remember our goals in helping others, and discovering cures, and ways to better our fellow man's life on this earth? We should read history to determine who is remembered, and who is not....and for what reasons they are remembered or not. 

It is easy to criticize people for being materialistic, but are we all not working to feed, clothe, and better our lives? It is even easier to support people who are materialistic for the same exact reason, but have we ever considered the many people who are starving, naked, homeless, who have nothing, and are in need of much? Maybe we should give our things away so that others can live just as well as we can, and use our materials and energy helping people who have needs not just wants. 

In conclusions and reflection of the many things and arguments that have been made in this short time, there seems to be a balance that could be struck between the two opposing materialism arguments. Maybe we could spend everyday being materialistic not just so that we have things to eat and wear, but so that others may also have as much as we do. We should have a good living situation, with everything we need and want, but we should also share are materials with those who have none. 

It is fine to want to live well, but it should not be our all consuming goal in life. There is much more to life than things and money. Relationships, love, God, and loving our neighbor as we would love ourselves should come at the top of our priorities. Selfishness is not acceptable when someone has enough to give away. I seem to remember a lady in the Bible that gave away the two pennies she had to the Temple, knowing that she may not eat that night. 

That is love and devotion. Similarly, Jesus did not put materials and things above us. If He would have, we would not have the opportunity to be saved. He never had to leave Heaven, and everything He had to save selfish people that do not deserve it. He could have been materialistic, but He chose us above all. 

There is always a right in the wrong, and materialism in and of itself is not wrong, but making that the god of life is what is wrong. Just some things to think about, and make a decision based upon these thoughts. Some people go to either extreme, but there can be a way to meet in the middle but compromising. Energy should be spent bettering others, not just ourselves. 



