Many times we are forced to face an image that may not present an item or person accurately.  This includes advertisements, that convince us to favor certain items over others. This also includes how we see others and ourselves many times. While it is always favorable to leave a positive impression on someone, do these impression shape reality and effect society too much? Impressions and images, do have far too large of an effect on people and ensure that an almost rose colored lense is used to look at certain things and people, often causing disappointment. 

Beautiful and exciting packaging typically carries products that do not always live up to the hype and excitment that the package originally brought on. This can relate to all aspects of life. Walking down the street in a city such as Los Angeles, will allow you to see people from all walks of life. Without realizing that those that often look the most put together are the ones struggling the most on the inside. However, these images being broadcast to society often forces someone into silence, without a real outlet because of the fear that their secrets and real image will be revealed. I think most people struggle with something similar. The saying "fake it until you make it" fits very well into the world of images and impressions. 

Politicians typically gain followers and success through their campaign and promises. Politicians make numerous promises, such as fighting climate change or promising a better world for citizens. These promises give positive impressions to society. However after being voted in, these politicians rarely live up to these promises and it becomes quite obvious that they were only made to ensure their victory in the campaign. Soon the positive image begins to fade and society is faced with an image that looks nothing like the one promised originally. 

Impressions and keeping up images to please those around us can often become too much to handle, having too large of an effect on people. Were often consumed with packaging and finding something that looks the best rather than having the best product. We're presuaded by politicians, and others of mean because of the positive impressions given. However, eventually we are faced with a crystal clear reality that does not come any where close the image originally portrayed. Images can be a very positive thing, they can often bring us out of dark times, or they can win us over. While there are some poitives, they do not outweigh the negative aspects that can accompany these sometimes outlandish images and impressions that have been given.
