The state of our current society seems to be extremely divisive. There has been rioting iin the streets, an attack on the fabric of democracy, and even attempted kidnappings of the people such as the governor of Michigan. When one looks at the parties involved, there is much competition to try and achieve goals over the oppsosing group. It is clear that this competition is leading to further split. Therefore cooperation would lead to a more stable society that actually accomplishes success.

The violence in the streets is just one example of how competition does not effectively lead to success. There are various issues that there has not been a solution to due to continued competition. Examples include gun control, abortion, government spending, and foreign policy. If these politicians cooperated, solutions could have been found many years ago. It takes sitting down at the table and finding common ground and working together to create solutions. Instead, politicians talk about each other and hope that the public will side with them. Although referring to politics thus far, this is a metaphor for all of society. Once we all begin to work together, we can make this world a better place.

Many will argue that sports prove that competition works. One sports team will work harder due to the competition against their rivals. This could lead to championships and honors. They will aruge that it leads to an esprit de corps that brings the team together. However, what they must realize is that although true this competition might bring the team together, it does so at the expense of the other team. Therefore someone has to lose. In our world, no one needs to lose. Instead cooperation would lead to both groups moving forward.

Competition might have its place and could potentially benefit certain individuals or groups. However, if we want everyone to suceed, we must cooperate. Until then, we will still have poverty, war, and violence. Cooperation will lead to everyone having an equal chance at success. Success is more than avoiding failure or achieiving victory. It is about doing those things together so that all of us succeed. Success creates a chain reaction that helps others. However, so does failure. Only when we help each other, can we see success. Cooperative success is what will last for generations and lead to a better future for our world.
