Fake news, fake world, fake people. Its a witch hunt and we are being hunted.  Politicians, marketers or corporations want our attention, money and engagement for their power.

We might call it influence operations, psychological operations or many other things.  We know the commercials we see are fake, the models photoshopped and the lighting is perfected.  Often, when you see a photo of a women in the red dress what we will never know is several hours where spent perfecting her sex appeal, look, personality and pose.  This is ture of  public figures and absolutely true of our politicians. 

People seek to be desiren, sought after or noticed products want the same.  Political or public figures command this type of attention.  This is how successful careers, corporations, brands or personal identities are built.  The way people present themselves, products sell themselves or politicians represent themselves is an illusion. At times it can be malicious with intentions which are less than perfect only with a desire to mislead us.

We see it in the media headlines are intended to instill fear or stir emotion.  Politicians give speechen on stages bigger than modern rock concerts and sound systems to match.  Everyone is dressed to impress and issues, human concerns or dignity are on the back burner or completly thrown out the window. Some might argue this is how the messages are heard, this is how people get the products we need or this is how we personally grow to be like the public figures we admire.  While that is true the bigger the stage and the louder system the more the voices will be heard and there is great benifit to this.

However, the truth at the end of the day is the large voices drown out the smaller.  Other products, people ideas or services are never heard.  The people at the stop remain at the top by exaggerating how great and perfect the horrible and bad things are.  Consent is not given whether it is for votes or to purchase products it is manufactured and manipulated from us.  Choice is and will remail an illusion.

Images and impressions are everything, the map is not the territory - perception is reality.  The mind creates models often it can not deconstuct.  These models are based on previous engagements, previous images and impressions many of which are fake.  It is how you modify or manipulate emotions or behaviour with false images, false or exaggerated impressions.  

These icons, images are used to divide us.  Is it an elephant a dokey, a picture of a man on a cross.  A people divided is one better to control than one united.  If its not political false images of products and sexuality leave us feeling inadequate, wanting more or as if we generally failed because we could not live up to what was being sold to us.

No matter how necessary it may be.  We know even things like color psychology are considered in campaign advertising or even fast food marketing.   I'd just have to disagree with anyone who suggested things were moving the right was.  It is how our behaviour is being modified, manipulated or maintained.  All day long we are bombarded with false, fake, misleading of just deceptive impressions.

Who someone pretends to be is not who they are or who they will be.  They want you to see them this way, they want (need) you to imagine it.  They need the image in your mind to be one that glorifies them, their services or product.

We should celebrate, enjoy and love who we are.  We should demand that products or services represent what they are now what they want us to perceive.  We should not allow these things to divide us....  In politics is is not rep vs dem it is us vs them, that must be understood.  We should focus on real issues not imagined, not "images and impressions".  Though this is how governments retain power  and corporations retain profits, I am hopeful we can.  But I am not sure we will.  There is a lot of work being done and if everyone talks about in this way possibly we can have change

------------------------------

(100% of everything is me.... I've used a few things before.  I've never done anything like this - it was bizzare. There is too much impact. I wish I ended better)
