Everyone wants to be happy and when we as in people focus on making each other happy that's the more effective way of achieving happiness. We here all the time from celebrities who make it big complain about how they can't trust many people or that their missing something when they indeed have everything. Now how could that be an occurance if you have everything? Let's break this down, we all know someone who never does anything for anyone but themselves and will even take advantage of someone for personal gain and still not be satisfied simply because nobody outside of one person benifitted from said situation so only one person got some sort of fulfillment.

One could make the claim that people have to focus on themselves and that is indeed true, if we're always in someone else's business, how can one continue to grow. Let's take this a step forward, if one person achieve's their goal of winning the lottery, that one person just fulfilled a personal goal. One could go even further and claim that those around that individual might do what they can to get a piece of the pie rather the indiviual that achieved their goal of winning the lottery would be ok with that or not. It's good to have personal goals as it allows you to constantly work towards something but if what you're doing only benifits you, maybe an honest conversation with one said self will shed light on why it's more important to have others interest in mind.

With there being so many types of people there's going to be different types of ideology but one thing every person can agree on is we all want to be happy and loved. So the bottom line is when people come together to achieve greatness you see great results such as fighting back agaist oppression, helping one another when weather disasters strike, when we just need to get our thoughts out, it's always better when we come together because the more that focus on being unselfishness and personal gain the more focusing on one anothers success becomes the norm.

