Everyday we're blasted with ads. We see them on TV, online, cellphones, billboards, shop windows, store aisles, and we hear them on the radio. All of them are trying to be the one to which everyone pays attention. 

How do they get our attention? They hire the perfect model or spokesperson for their products. If they're lucky enough to get their desired celebrity, politician, etc., they will put their image on every ad they have. They are hoping we think enough of their spokesperson to buy whatever they're hawking. But when is it too much? When can it cross over to lying?

Back in the 1960s or 1970s, Pat Boone was one of the first celebrities to begin hawking a product. Thousands of people purchased the product because, in their minds, if Pat Boone said it was a good thing, then it was. Unfortunately, it wasn't. The product was no good and they made a fortune off Pat Boone's goody two-shoes image. People were angry. Eventually, a law was passed that if a celebrity endorsed a product, he was also responsible to ensure they product they were convincing people to buy, was what advertised. They could be held financially responsible for endorsing a bad product. 

A recent ad comes to mind with Tom Selleck. A beloved actor with millions of fans who would probably believe anything he says. He's on TV hawking reverse mortgages. He says it's not his first rodeo...as if he would need one, himself. No, he doesn't need one. He just wants us to get one. It makes money for his advertiser and for himself as the spokesperson. But, here's the thing...they don't tell you what the drawbacks are. There's a lot of information on the internet about reverse mortgages and a lot of it is negative. Very negative. 

So at what point do we disregard the spokesperson? We should not make a decision on something as important as a reverse mortgage on our homes because we like Tom Selleck. Tom Selleck is a good actor with two huge hits with Magnum, P.I. and Blue Bloods. He's rich and getting richer endorsing the reverse mortgage. So let the celebrity tell you about the product but don't stop there. Do your homework and do it well. There's a wealth of information at your fingertips. Research, research, research. Even if the product is good, it may not be what you need. Don't send anyone any money until you've done the necessary research to know all about the product or company.

We've gotten to a point with social media and being inundated with people like the Kardashians, etc. that we tend to think they wouldn't lie to us. They're sharing because they care about us. No, they're sharing because they're paid a fee to endorse it. Always remember that. Don't let someone you admire on TV, films, or social media tell you what you need. 
