Happiness can be so elusive. We are living in the age of social media where everyone SEEMS happy, but statisctically, suicide rates are up and happiness is at an all time low. It makes one question why? Why are we living in a time where people have access to way more things than their predecessors, but are much unhappier?  It leads one to believe that it isnt the "things" that make us happy at all. While their may be some items that spark joy, one must also find other ways to practice self care.

People are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals because it is impossible to pour into others from an empty cup.  We have witnessed multiple times, executives, atheltes, celebrities, and other extremely wealth people get so swept up in whatever is making them money, that they neglect everything around them. We see those same people become so unhappy as a result, that the end up committing suicide. These events are always very sad and lead to the same type of headlines. We remind eachother that money cant buy happiness. But as soon as a more intersting headline comes along, people dive headfirst back into Hustle Culture.   In order to assist the people around you, it is important for you to be fulfilled first.  Self fulfillment means taking the time to focus on things that you love. That could mean Selfcare sundays, spending time with family and friends, or relaxing with a good book in the nook of your favorite book store. Hustle culture has taken us over and we have forgotten how to do things that we love without attempting to monetize them. We are pouring into others in our personal and professional lives. Most people have poured so much that they have nothing left for themselves. This leads to stress, burnout, and resentment. 

If we take the time to step away from Hustle Culture and reclaim time with our beloved family, friends, and activities, we will all be much happier. Only when your cup runneth over will you have the ability to pour into another one without depleting your self. Focus on your own goals and happiness first, and in doing so you will help others accomplish their goals. There is nothing wrong with helping others, but you have to help yourself first. 
