What is something that everyone wants but no one is sure if they've found it yet?  Even our founding father's knew that happiness is something that we are all free to pursue but, there was no guarantee of actually acquiring it.  Happiness is one of the most important pursuits in all of our lives, yet no one has any sure answer to how it is achieved.  I posit that, happiness is not this state of being that we achieve after some long pursuit rather, it is something that comes and goes like any emotion, like a cloud floating across the sky.  And, mayhaps, if the clouds never turned grey, we'd never know if we were in a constant state of happiness at all.

My childhood was happy.  As a person with Autistic spectrum disorder, I experience the world differently than most others.  One of the areas I excel in is my ability to remember my own life.  My earliest memory was at the non-verbal age of <11 months and it was of my grandmother smiling at me as I crawled happinly across her floor in my diaper.  I smiled back at her.  I remember playing with friends outside, climbing trees on a beautiful blooming Mimosa tree with it's delicate whispy magenta flowers falling all around us.  I remember trips to the beach and feeding seagulls.  So many happy memories, my childhood was happy.

My childhood was terrible.  My second memory, is of my father, angrily pulling me out of a high chair by my hair and dragging me down the hallway to a dark and empty room to beat me for not finishing my food.  I remember my mother beating me with a broomstick because I had friends over after school when she told me not to.  I remember my father driving drunk with all of us in the car, terrified, as we hoped to God we would not crash and die because he would beat my mother if she dared take the keys away from him.  My childhood was terrible.

So, which state of being rules my life?  Because I had moments of fun and experienced love and smiles, do these times define my life?  Or is it the abuse, anger and terror?  How can I or anyone possibly choose one state of being to be ruled by?  Like the weather, happiness will blow in and out of our lives with the breeze and, we must all be patient enough to weather each storm and know that another Sunny day is never too far off.  Like the weather, there may be hard years of drought or an extra long winter.  Or, there may be the perfect planting season with just enough sun and rain to have a bountiful harvest.  One cannot exist without the other, and we are ruled by the same.

To summarize, happiness is not something to be chased or achieved.  Happiness comes in to each person's life in it's own time and, when it does, we should stop and appreciate it.  Showing gratitude for the happiness that we experience is a good way to solidify it's presence in not just our lives but, in the world. My childhood was happy, my childhood was terrible, and I'm at peace with both knowing that there will always be some happiness right around the corner. I believe that our founding fathers were wrong because, happiness is not something that can be pursued. Happiness pursues each of us in it's own time, just as sadness and heartache pursue us.  Every experience has it's season but, if we are lucid enough to recognize their presence, I think we can all experience a bit more happiness each day.


