In today's fast-paced world, we are constantly bombared with images and advertiments for people and products. If we're not careful, we can find ourselves getting lost in the crush of information and being fooled into believing untrue impressions. 

Images and impressions are a false veneer that can hide the truth from viewers. What you see is not always what you get, and we would do well to remember this in order to protect our finances, our pride, and even our lives and wellbeing.

People can often give off false impressions of themselves, whether they be politicians, celebrities, or people we encounter in our everyday lives. Almost all of us have at some point pretended to feel a way that we didn't, so of course other people do it too, especially those who have something to gain from fooling other people. Politicians know that few people will support someone who seems cold, aloof, and uncaring, so they put up a facade of likeability and sympathy for others even if they are in politics purely for their own gain. Watching a few political ads is not enough to intelligently decide who to vote for, since these ads are often biased and skewed. We should look not just at how a politician presents themselves, but what their actions say about them. No amont of smiles, jokes, and photographs with voters can outweigh the damage of supporting a hurtful policy. 

Advertisments operate under a similar guise. Advertisers know that people will be more likely to buy their products if they make the brand appear likeable through their ads. Thus they may incorporate slogans that suggest they care about the consumer, even if all they care about is the consumer's money. Many companies use wording in their advertisments that casts the viewer as part of their "family," when of course this isn't true and is only meant to manufacture closeness between the viewer and the brand. This dishonesty can even go as far as false activism. For example, a company might boast that they plant a tree for every product sold, painting themselves as environmentally friendly, when really their production process makes more CO2 and other harmful materials than can be cancelled out by planting some trees.

Some people might point out the ways that images and impressions can be useful to us. Most of us don't have time to carefully research and evaluate every product we see and every person we meet. We may have to rely on our first impressions to give us enough information to work with. This is often true, but that doesn't mean we should forget that our impressions might be incorrect. It is not necessary to research every product we see an advertisment for, but when purchasing one we should definately look into their business practices and customer reveiws. We need to stay careful and alert for products or people who are attempting to trick us, especially when letting them into our lives by purchasing them or trusting them. 

One of the most important skills a person needs to have today is the ability to think critically about information presented to them. We need to remember that other people, especially famous people like celebrities and politicians, have their own reasons for wanting us to like them. We also need to keep in mind that the whole purpose of advertisments and product packaging is to get us to purchase the product, so of course they will present a favorable impression, even if that means leaving out the truth. We need to stay alert and intelligent to make the best decisions for ourselves and for the world around us.

