Have you ever wondered where happiness comes from? Some may suggest that happiness can only come from within or that it only comes from seeing others happy. For most people, finding true happiness is only achievable through focusing on ones goals. While many people will argue that happiness can only come from seeing others happy, many examples prove that true happiness can only come from setting personal goals and achieving them. Happiness can happen in many forms but true happiness can only come from within. 

For starters, for a person to achieve true happiness, they must be able to achieve their goals and work on their true self before achieving such happiness. For example, have you ever given yourself a goal of somesort to achieve before a certain period of time? If yes, then do you remember how truly happy you felt after you achieved said goal? Compare that feeling of happiness to other times you have felt happy and it is no question that finding true happiness is achievable through achieving your goals and/or working on ones self. Some people may say "true happiness can only come from seeing others happy." While that is somewhat true, we as humans end up setting goals in life in order to make someone other than ourself happy. For example, when we want to see other people happy we may say to ourself "I am going to set a goal to be able to do this certain thing in order to help someone in need." Once we reach said goal and make another person happy, we can infer that setting goals for ourself and reaching them is the key to reaching true happiness. 

In conclusion, true happiness is only achievable by setting goals for ourself and finding it from within. While many humans do find happiness in seeing others happy, we can only find that happiness by achieving a goal in helping someone become happy. Setting goals for ourself and being able to work on ourself from withing is the key to finding true happiness. Happiness can happen in many forms but true happiness can only come from within. 
