Materialism Critique by A3Q7DITNWEO0N
When we care more about stuff then we do ourselves, people will suffer. These days, Americans are becoming more and more materialistic. Our capitalist greed drives us to produce and consume objects at an unsustanable rate. In persuit of these material objects, important psychological needs, such as the need for community, go unmet. One might counter that producing and consuming gives us a meaningful purpose in life, but the cost is too high. Modern society must be critizised for it's material greed. 
One important reason for criticism is that we are producing and consuming objects at an unsustanable rate. When we over produce, we are using natural resources in excess and destroying our environment. When we over consume, we are using our own financial resources in excess, leading us to need to work longer hours, or past a reasonable retirement age.  The needs for consumption are not allowing us to spend money on things that are more important, like experiences, education, donations, and leaving an inheritance. This unsustanable cycle of producing and consuming is not good, and should be critizised. 
Another point that lends itself a critical take is that when we are focused on producing and consuming, we neglect other needs. For example, if we did not need to make so many consumer products we would need less people working. We could go back to single income households where our needs at home are meet more properly, or work less hours and enjoy a better work life balence. We would also have less stress from work. We could value jobs that help people more, instead of valuing those that make high profits. With more free time we could spend more time experiencing things, with loved ones, creaing community, and socializing.Without the need to consume so many material objects, we could find happiness elsewhere. I believe the other things we would do if we did not have to work so much and weren't focused on consuming goods that don't sustain happiness, we would find that happiness is better found elsewhere. 
Some people may argue that producing and consuming objects gives us a life purpose, however, I think  that although this is true, we could find a better purpose. Having something meaningful to work towards is a protective agent for mental health. However, I think that the production and consumption materialism gives us is just one way we could achieve this. Maybe we could find purpose and meaning in helping others, or forming relationships, in expanding knowledge. There are other persuits just as meaningful, and while meaningful purpose is necessary, we do not need materialism to meet this goal. 
Overall, I beleive that society should be critizised for focusing too much on matierialism. First of all, materialism is unsustainable both in production and consumption. Second, we would have more time, money, and energy to meet our real psychological and human needs if we weren't burdened by the persuit of materialism. And third, although we do derive some purpose from materialism, it would probably be better if we found purpose elsewhere. I believe materialism in society should be critized for these reasons. 
