The idea of competition driving accomplishment is promoted throughout Western culture and civilization. Conservative, free-market, capitalists will extol the virtues of competition as a way for individuals to rise up and achieve success. The idea that if markets are less regulated and individuals or business are allowed to compete unfettered, then society will be lifted up as well as the individual. On the other hand, the need for cooperation between individuals, corperations, and nations is becoming more and more important in the modern world if flourishing is to be achieved. With the speed of technological innovations as well as the flatterning of the world market, the need for cooperation is becoming more and more evident. This essay will make the argument that cooperation serves to bolster accomplishments for individuals and society more than competition.  

Due to the speed in which technology is growing. Individuals are in danger of losing jobs and tasks that were once abundant. Machines that are capable of perfoming countless menial tasks for a fraction of the cost and fraction of time are much more desirable for companies than humans, who are much slower and more costly to employ. Our current labor force will be unable to compete with these new technologies as they become more and more capable. The need for human beings to cooperate in order to solve the problem of potential mass job displacement due to artificial intelligence and machine learning is clear. The cut-throat competitive nature of capitalism overlooks the reality that human beings are unable to compete with these machines and does not offer very much in the way of a solution. 

Another factor to consider is the "flattening" world market that has been developing over the past few decades. The ability for individuals to interact and conduct business with anyone in the world is a relatively new phenomenom. All one needs is a phone with a data plan and one can set up a world wide storefront within an hour. This brings up challenges that were unheard of in previous decades. The disparate nature of resources between nations and parts of the world requires cooperation in order to assist with the ability to conduct business. 

This flattening also brings up challenges for the laborer.  How does an individual in Des Moines, Iowa looking for online work compete with an individual from Calcutta, India? These individuals have different laws and rules that govern their acitivity. How can they fairly compete with each other and accomplish their goals? The need for cooperation between goverments, coorperations, and individuals to ensure equal opportunities for those looking for new opportunities is much more vital now than ever before. 

It is true that competition can serve to bolster accomplishments in certain "micro" environments, such as within coorperate structures, cities, etc. This does not address the "macro" concerns that have been mentioned previously. Without cooperation, competition will breed inequality and ultimately lead to less flourishing amongst individuals and ultimately broader society. 



