One thing that all people of all creeds and colors strive for is happiness.  When someone is happy, it makes the rest of their life better.  One question that often comes up is are people happiest when they make others happy or focus on themselves and their own goals to become happy. I hope to focus on this question, take the position that self-happiness and worth must come first and explain why.

If someone is not happy to begin with, they cannot become happy by helping others.  This I believe is only a unfilled skeleton of true happiness.  For instance, if a person is very disappointed with their own job and how they are performing, they are unlikely to feel happy about someone else's successes.  Sure they may put up a front of being happy for someone else, but deep down they might be jealous.  This can also translate into trying to make someone else happy.  People have a knack for detecting whether someone is being genuine or can tell when something is wrong with someone else.  So the attempt to make someone else happy will fail.  People can only be actors for so long, it is near impossible to be a perfect actor for twenty-four hours a day.  

What comes first is oneself.  When someone is happy themselves, they easily project that to others.  When they are happy, they tend to give the maximum effort because they are joyous.  People feed off each other's feelings, this is evident even in sports competition.  When teams go on 'runs' they are feeling together and more as a team, they believe in each other.  That can lead to achievements that should be beyond that team, yet they persevere.  People both feed off positivity and negativity.  If someone is not happy with themselves they are either neutral or negative.  People see negative and it can be as infectious as positivity.  That is why being happy and satisfied with one's worth is more likely to generate true happiness more than trying to generate it for others.  If given the equal opportunity to generate happiness it is the most logical idea to generate it for yourself and as the saying goes, pay it forward.               
