    For the question that "do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?" the simple answer for this this "YES". People are more attracted to colourful images and impressions.  The best way to reach people for using a product or service is providing advertisement which contains colourful images and impression things like music, humans in that ad ectc., 
     Some products are published through pamplets and some bit notices for through flex and banners now a days company use to invest more amount for promoting their products to people which is the more effect way to develope or promote the brands.
      Now a days not only childern even the adults are more impressive for colourful images and attractive things and  most people purchase their product by refering the  advertisemnet which is done to promot the product.
      for example: the package of the product sets the first benchmark to the product rather than their quality and quantity this is as like the dressing of the human represents their character.
     Most of the people has an thought that the more colourful and attractive a product is  more  the it's  quality is but this is not a true statement more sectors use colourful images and impressive models and dialogues to grab the attention of the people.
     And we people who are kuch fond of images and colours and mainly the attractive things like the models who act in the advertisement and the music used for making which becomes the strenght of the promoters to atrract us.
     Thus images and impressions have too much effect on people which becomes a strong tool for the promoters to sell their products.
     Attractive images are used not omly for promoting products but also used in many sectors like in politics to promte their party or in times of election to grab the attention of people to vote the respected parties,  in media to increase their TRP rate of the show or movie, even in news channel to attractively describe the news which can reach the people in easier manner and even the uneducated people can understant it.
    Images, adverstisement and  impressions are the only way which even the uneducated can also come to know about the thing what the other trying to explain.
    Even in books we use attractive images to make the reads intersting to read the books. Now a days e-books are used which is also a form of impression wher the illeterate can also come to know about the books and develope their knowledge.
    Images and impressions have both boon and ban some producers user it as their strenght and some use for cheat people. Not all images and impression products can have the best qualities sam shown in the advertisements so it is peoples choice to choose the best products rather purchasing or desicing the thing using it's image or advertisements.
    so people are the one to decide the product no images or impressions can decide the quality of the thing.
