

I think that certain images presented in the media do have an effect on people. These images affect their perceptions of themselves and others. This continues throuhout their childhood, into their teenage years and all the way into adulthood. Some people will never even realize this and be brainwashed by the media for their entire lives, while others will realize this and it will cause them to become paranoid. Very few people can see the media for what it is and not let it bother them. 

The mass media has had a grip on our consciousness for longer than we have realized. The process starts when we are children watching all of our favorite shows. Then it expands to the stores and all of the toys and products we craved as children. We are now progammed to wait for the newest things and run out to get them. This continues all the way up through adulthood, until we realize that we need to make changes. Once we realize that maybe we don't need to pay so much attention to these things, we can begin to change. Eventhough the mass media is not going anywhere and is evolving to draw us in, we don't have to pay attention. We can always turn our televisions and electronics off and find some other form of entertainment. Such as read a book, go for a walk in the park or play basketball with some friends.  If we can find some kind of positive connection to these things it can help for us to see them for what they are. This will help us have a more positive relationship with mass media and all that it brings. 

In conclusion, I think the media does have an effect on our minds and how we see things. But, as the say knowing is half the battle, if we know this we can fight against it and not allow the media to infiltrate our consciousness. This will make for a better future for all parties involved and we can begin to have a healthier relationship with mass media. Because for all the bad that media brings it's all we have and it does bring about some positives as well. Maybe our parents had a point when they told us to shut it off and go to bed.

