  II feel like if everypne equally focused on themselves, and the betterment/ happiness of others, then as a whole the happiness of each individual could heighten. Many exaples of this way of thinking can be applied to an abundance of topics. Such as poverty, the justice system, jobloss/the workforce in general, laws, disease, the betterment of life for each individual etc.  I believe by helping others you can help yourself.  If we together grouped and focused on helping others strive to succeed then we too shall succeed in finding and bettering our own happiness. 
  
Every year in America there are thousands and thousands of arrests pertaining to drug law violations. These people can have an array of things happen to them including jail time, inprisonment, hefty fines, large debts of community service long term probation, and more.  The heavy consequences that follow these people can and most times will be long. They will suffer job loss, poverty, debt, police hgarassment, peer harassment etc.  this can all bve avoided by decriminalization of all drugs through each state in America.

  A lot of people would say "why would you want this its a bad idea, these people are dangerous". " These people need to be held accountable for their acctions, they need to be repremanded".  "That gives the wrong idea to impressionable children and teens". Im not here to say your ideas and opinions are right or wrong. But what if instead of trying to severly punish these people to the point it severly effects their day to day lives for many years to come, we could help them.  Put them into treatment facilities, monitor them, help them instead of hurting them further when they are suffering already. 
  
  It could save numerous lives. It could bring people out of addiction. It could bring more people out of poverty instead of creating more of it and instead of making it harder for these people to find and get jobs. It will create jobs as well. This could save millions of people. This shift of regulatory laws could effect nearly everyone in a positive way. Now a days almost every family in America has been touched and effected in some way/aspect by addiction and drug use. A mother, a daughter, a brother, a son, a father, a cousin, an uncle, an aunt, a best friend, a neighbor, a classmate, anyone could be struggling. most people dont know or realize these people are stuggling until its too late, one way or another. Rather it be this person overdosed accidentally, and didnt know it was happening or was too scared to ask for help for fear of getting introuble. Or for fear of the life long negative impact that they would not ever be able to escape. All because they were suffering from a disease. 

  In retrospect to all of this, we could focus not only on the happiness of ourselves with this but also on the happiness of other. I feel as if we are all connected. If we put the time and effort into focusing on helping the betterment of thers, then we in turn will feel our own happiness has bettered as well. Everyone deserves to have a chance to be happy and not have that taken from them because of the way a justice system is set up to operate poorly. Or because they are suffering from a disease, or because they made a mistake.  Everyone deserves a chance. Help each other. 

 
