Appearance can be deceiving is a cliche for a reason. It has become so commonplace for people to assume that what they see cannot be believed. The same goes for the phrase, don't judge a book by its cover - it's a cliche for a reason, right? Well, which one are we as consumers subscribe to? Which cliche, as time honored and relevant as they are, is the best to make your life motto. In a world where we are increasingly exposed to Photoshopped images and where the ability to find an image to use for a product, promotion, or profile picture is simply a Google search away, what should we do? How do we trust in the images we see and discern the real from the fake? Well, it's a simple answer really - I don't think we totally can. As humans, we are wired to take in visual stimuli and use that to create thoughts, ideas, and core memories. But what if the images and impressions we see on a daily basis aren't real? Do these false thoughts, feelings, and emotions that come from viewing fake information really affect us. In today's world, the images and impressions we take in every day are having a terrifying amount of effect on people and the way we have learned to live our lives.

Let's take TikTok for example - anyone with a smartphone and an internet connection can create a TikTok account. But is the information they are showing you real or fake? How do you know? Many people tend to take what they find on TikTok as the truth. If it's on the internet, it must be true. There are these supposed "fact checking bots" out there flagging and taking down the content that isn't true, isn't real, isn't "right", right? Wrong! Anyone in the world with a working smartphone and an internet connection can make and post a TikTok video. How many times have we seen videos like the Nyquil chicken craze go viral, only to be proven to be a hoax? There are so many people out there today who don't even know what to believe. Every piece of media they consume that aligns in some small way with their values or thoughts that they have already percolated in their heads about a topic is taken to be the "be all, end all" truth, the "God's honest truth". In the case of Nyquil chicken and the very REAL warning from the CDC about NOT consuming it, it was all found to be a completely staged image, a hoax, a fraud. But the image that circulated on TV, new stations, and the internet was very real. And people believed it! Part and parcel! Rather than checking the validity of whether this Nyquil chicken existed, news stations and outlets ran with the story of the "viral" chicken made with night time sleep medication, only to find out it was untrue. But that image of the green chicken in the pan on someone's stove, for people who never heard the retraction, is reality - it's something they warned their kids and their neighbors about. That is the inherent problem with images and impressions - they stick with people and only by seeking out whether that information is right or true do people get to the bottom of it. The Nyquil chicken story will live on in infamy as a TikTok trend gone bad and probably grow to epic proportions - someone died from eating it, my cousin said she made it and slept for days, etc. But for those of us who saw that image of the green chicken, that image will forever be cataloged in our brains. That image will forever change how we view people who make TikTok content, how we evaluate what we think about an image. The human brain is wired to look at images, file them away with similar ones, and make connections to learn from. So what did we actually learn from the viral green chicken - to not believe everything you see, despite what the media portrays. Just because there is a picture to go with a story, does not automatically make the story itself true, right, fair, or helpful.

But let's go back to the cliche "don't judge a book by its cover" for a moment. How else are you supposed to judge a book? As a reader, I often use the cover design of a book to determine whether I am interested in reading the book and whether I would like to expend time and energy to consume that media. Reading takes time, which in our capitalist society equals money. My time is worth something. If I am making the decision to take my time and read a book, I have to first decide whether it is worth my time to read it and let it change me, let it into my world. But does the cover tell me absolutely everything about a book? Rarely, if ever! Most books have a catchy tag line on the cover, a "stimulating" image that is somehow related to the contents, as well as the title and the author of the book (and an illustrator, translator, or editor, depending on the type of book). Sometimes, not always, the back of the book contains another picture, a synopsis of the plot, and/or reviews and ratings by other authors. All of these things are curated to appeal to readers visually - to draw them in and make connections to the book, to get them to spend not only their dollars but their time to consume that piece of media. How do I decide I want to read a book without looking at the images on the cover? Well, for starters, you can open it and just start reading. Or, if you recognize the author's name and you know you like their writing style, you could go ahead and draw the conclusion that this book is one you would like to spend time on. But what if, and I have seen this happen countless times, both the image and the plot synopsis (or the ratings) included on the cover do not actually give the reader a full picture of the story in the book? I have read so many books where what I was promised was not what was delivered. Those books have only succeeded in proving that a book cannot be judged solely by its cover. Its worth, its story, its inherent value is contained within its pages, whether the cover image reveals what that value is or not. But what if I look at the cover and decide based on all of the information presented to me there that the book is not for me? I could choose not to read it and possibly miss out on the most transformative piece of literature I will encounter in my life. Or I could discover a new favorite author or a new favorite series. Or I could discover I actually really love spaghetti westerns. Who's to know unless I invest the time to look past the image on the cover and really dive into the piece of work myself? 

The images we are bombarded with every single minute of every day are often misleading and have too much of an effect on people and how they walk through their daily life. Images of rail thin supermodels (who are often Photoshopped to within an inch of their life) create eating disorders. Images of faraway landscapes or amazing architecture inspire people to travel the world, only to find out that the sunset in the picture is surrounded by an airstrip right next to the beach where planes practically land on your head (but it's a great picture!). We as humans consume images second by second throughout the day and use those images to create our worldview, our self-esteem, our hopes, our goals, and even our dreams for the future. But too often, those images are curating our beliefs, our thoughts, our very beings from are altered, are faked, are not real. But we are still choosing, actively choosing in many cases, to build a life around a lie. Why is it so hard to dream of things, of times, of places, of ideas that we have not already seen? Why can we not design a life we love, a life we desire from the images inside our own heads? Why are we so dependent on altered images to help us curate what we want from life? Because brain chemistry is a tried and true thing that we as humans must actively fight. So remember, appearances are deceiving - find a dream that doesn't depend on someone else's vision, view, of picture of reality. Find your own and live your truest self. 
