   The fact is that materialism has largely destroyed our cultural values as a nation, and further continues to do so with every subsequent wave of immigration, reducing assimilation into our society to little more than greed, rather than unity or purpose.
   There was a time when the colonists and inhabitants of our nation, and for that matter our world as a whole felt a sense of duty to one another, not of entitlement, but of shared values.
Today the only shared value evident in society is the pursuit of money, of things, and we spend our time largely attempting to acquire things we do not need, for the sake of social status, all the while being sold a bill of goods that is anything but good.
   I would submit that we have been conditioned by large scale social enginering both by political and corporate entitities, simply for the benefit of a relatively small group of individuals who benefit from selling us on materialistic pursuits. The notion of planned obsolecence for example has always fueled our economy, and to some extent one might argue that such a thing is good, even necessary, but we have sunken to a place where that idea has been bastardized into something even worse. 
   Lets take Apple for instance; Initially, they provided what in objective terms could be considered a superior product to their competition, as opposed to a one size fits all solution employed by their competititors, they controlled the entire supply and production chain from start to finish, enabling them to provide a better product.
   Contrast that with today when they have largely abandoned that model in favor of greed, providing a marginally better product than some, and relying instead on selling people on the IDEA, that their product (iphones) is better. They have managed this with such success that for many they happily buy these ever more expensive products not for their objective value, but simply because they have been conditioned to believe that they must have them.
   They rush to the store to buy the newest model, despite the fact that last years model has neither flaws or faults, because they desire the status symbol that accompanies ownership.
Now some may argue that this is good for the country, and that the historic valuation of Apple as a company is a marker of sucess and greatness. And for those few who gain immense wealth from that dynamic it would indeed be hard to refute, however for the rest of us who give up long hours at boring and unfulfilling tasks simply to be a part of it, it may seem questionable. 
  In the silicon valley where this and other similar companies are located for example, you will find income inequality that is greater than nearly anywhere else in the world, with a paltry few Lords and Ladies of the modern age content to embrace that dynamic as the peasants run themselves ragged to be a part of it all.

   In conclusion, I think that as a nation and as a people we have lost track of what truly matters. We have been socially engineered to believe that we must not judge one another for fear of social reprisal, and yet in so doing we have lost our ability to judge value objectively whatsoever. Our only real defining quality that truly seperates us from the animals is our ability to think rationally, in short to judge, and by embracing materialism for irrational reasons, we are slowly eroding the part of our nature that makes us most human, expending much if not all of our lives in pursuit of things that do not truly matter.
  We blithely step over the homeless man on the street, not because some part of us does not care, but because they have failed to be successful at those pursuits we are told we must be a part of, and to acknowledge that cuts us to the core, so we supress those feelings and thoughts, because even as we acquiesce to them, the slowly dying part of our brain that craves meaning cannot accept the hypocrisy of our modern materialistic society. We run around trying to "save the planet" all the while failing to realize that it is our preoccupation with having more and more that is what is destroying it, or perhaps more specifically: Destroying US.






