     Whether or not images have too much of an effect on people is an interesting question. I think it is important to define what too much of an effect is, who decides that, and in what context it is applied. But for the sake of argument, I will say this. I don't believe that images and impressions have a disproportionate impact on people's abilities to effectively make decisions for themselves.
     The central claim that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people I think is false. To support this false claim people will point to media sources such as advertising or public figures, to show that they have the ability to influence the public at large. I will demonstrate that while these sources certainly do have the ability to influence perception, they are ultimately only one of many factors that people use to conduct their everyday lives. Ultimately people have their own agency, and while they may be influenced by images and appearance, they do not blindly follow their visual sensory inputs.
    In a lot of cases the influence a public image has is not the ultimate decider. For example no matter how attractive a poltician is, it is unlikely that a person from the opposite party or political faction will be persuaded to vote for them based on image, no matter how attractive it is. It might help improve that person's standing against a less attractive version of themselves or marginally against political rivals with similar views, but ultimately the weight of the decision that a voter makes is substantially more weighted towards their political opinions than anything else. I think this argument does a lot to debunk the notion that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. I think this translates similarly across product purchases as well as other walks of life. Image and impression help put things in their best light, but ultimately people have agency and choose what they want to choose. A counter argument to this is that social media and social media manipulation, advertising, marketing wouldn't exist if they didn't have an impact. But was is lost in that argument is that it infers and implies that these impressions and images are the sole basis for the success of social media influencing, marketing, advertising etc.. Not all campaigns are visually oriented. Some of the best marketing is a result of word of mouth and the success of a product itself. Many times it is this type of marketing that can't be bought that leads to a products success. While social media influencing and impression management can nudge consumer direction across large populations its largely dependent upon people who have largely already opted in to receive message from people they are interested in. 
   One final comment or thought. While examples can be pointed to that show that images and impressions garner interest in products that may not live up to the expectation of what they represent (or rather misrepresent) I don't actually think that this shows the outsized effect on people. Rather it shows the outsized effect that fraud and dishonesty can have.  Acting fraudulently or dishonestly whether it is managing and image or an impression or financial contract or legal agreement for example is underhanded in all of those cases and gives the person an unfair advantage. It isn't fair to ascribe the power of being dishonest to images and impression specfically when in reality fraud and dishonesty can be used to gain an unfair advantage in almost any type of activity. Additionally any advantage gained by someone misrepresenting their image is short lived and undermines its own credibility. So ultimately I don't think images and impressions have too much of an outsized effect on people. People, especially in this day and age are skepitcal and incredulous of images and impressions that are too good to be true.
Images and impressions don't have too much or an outsized of an effect on people. They are just one part of a persons overall sensory input and information that they use to form opinions about the world around them. Yes someone can be fooled by a fast food ad showing a juicy burger, but it is unlikely that the next 10,000 of those images that they see will persuade them again.
