I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals. Your life is your own, and the choices you make for yourself will determine what sort of life you will lead. We are all responsoble for our own choices and we all have free will. I think in early life stages it is important to focus on what you want out of your life, like what type of job or education you want for yourself. These types of choices are important in the early years of your life. Later on in life, after you have focused on the things you want for yourself and your life, then you can begin to focus on the happiness of others. For instance, when you become a parent, you will most likely be more focused on your children and their happiness rather than your own. Caring for your children becomes the most important aspect of your life, and can be very rewarding and bring you happiness seeing that your children are happy and healthy. For me, becoming a mother has brought me great happiness and seeing my children grow and learn each day has been a blessing of happiness to my life. Before I had my children I was more focused on myself and what I wanted. But after becoming a mother I realized there is more to life than just my wants and needs. I think caring for others can bring you great happiness and joy, but you still have to remember your happiness as well. One day your children will grow up, have families of their own, and you will be alone once again to focus on your own happiness. So in my opinion I believe that during different stages and points in your life, deteermining what brings you happiness and joy at one particular moment or life stage may change during your lifetime. 

Caring about others well being can bring you much joy and happiness. Allowing yourself to be empathetic and feeling as if you are a part of something much bigger like humanity can bring a sense of closeness and caring with others throughout the world. I believe if more people felt that they were all a part of humanity as a global citizen instead of a singular person, the world would be filled with much more happiness. Having that sense of togetherness would allow other people all over the world to lead a happier life. Caring and empathy can help people feel one with the world instead of dividing people into different groups. Realizing that everyone on this planet is a part of one group, humans, would benefit all of humanity. It would bring much happiness to people. This would be a beautiful epiphany for many people that feel isolated or excluded knowing that they are part of huamnity. But again as I said earlier, I think happiness can come in many different shapes and forms, and at different stages in your life. What could bring you happiness and joy may not bring happiness and joy to someone else. We all need to figure out what makes us feel happy and work on that. 

Having dreams, aspirations and goals can bring you happiness because when you set yourself goals, you may feel happy when you have accomplished those goals. Having goals and looking forward to the future can be very healthy for your mental well being. Focusing on yourslef and what you need to accomplish the goals makes you feel optimistic about the future. Measuring your happiness can be challenging at times, especially during these crazy past few years we have all had to deal with. I think the lockdowns across the world made people focus more on themselves and a lot of people ended up taking on new hobbies and spending more time focusing on what makes them happy. But at the same time, it made people feel isolated because some people were not allowed to be around their families and loved ones. It forced a lot of people into depression, when it should have been a good time for self reflection and what they want from life. 

In summary, I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals at any given point in life. But at the same time, they should also take into consideration the happiness of others that are close to them. We can all lead happy lives if we choose to. 
