One is more likely to find happiness from focusing on personal goals than on the happiness of others and there are several reasons for this. Happiness is something that needs to come from within. It comes from the mindset and attitudes toward life. One can increase happiness by learning to accept those things that they cannot change and by working on those things that they can. It is important to understand the difference here.

Basing our happiness on the happiness of others is problematic. To begin with, we can not know the happiness of others. It is quite common for people to display only the happy pieces of their life on social media and to paint a much happier picture than their real life would reflect. If you are going to compare your real life to the glamorized version of everyone else's life, your life will almost always appear to come up short. 

Another issue with basing our happiness on the happiness of others is that this is completely out of our control. We can do nothing to make ourselves happy if our happiness depends on what others are thinking or doing. We cannot control how happy someone else is no matter how hard we might try.

As a mother, it can be difficult not to base my happiness off the happiness of my children. But I can't do that because I cannot control how happy they are. Of course, I still strive to give them the best life possible and to teach them how to be happy but I can't allow my happiness to be dependent on their happiness. 

On the other hand, we can find great happiness when focusing on personal goals. Staying mindful in the present moment and being grateful for the things that we have are two important pieces to maintaining happiness. Having a personal goal to focus on serves both of these. It keeps us living in the moment to having something to work on. It also helps us feel accomplished and thankful for what we have when we meet milestones along the way.

We might not always accomplish our personal goals, but the great things with personal goals is that they are in our control so we can adjust them or tailor them to fit our changing circumstances. This is important. Life is never what we expect it to be and if we want to be happy despite unforseen set backs, we need to adjust our expectations for ourselves in the process.

I have found that for me personally, the key to happiness is not any of those things though. The key is to find the happiness in each moment and to appreciate the things that you have in your life. Comparing to others does not bring true happiness and focusing on a personal goal can certainly bring happiness into my life but the best way to be happy is to decide to be happy no matter what life throws at you. Happiness is both a choice and an attitude. 


