It's my opinion that success is best achieved through cooperation. There are many who would argue that competition is the law of nature, and while that is true in the small, individual scale, on the large scale, it is cooperation that creates advancement.  Darwinism and survival of the fittest applies only to sentient creatures - not sapient ones. As humans have gained the ability to think and reason and rationalize, so too have we gained a responsibility for cooperation. Humanity as a whole has only advanced as far as it has due to cooperation. If we were a purely competitive species, we'd have killed each other and the planet already - not that we're not doing those things, but it would have long been done by now.

The theory of evolution tells us that survival of the fittest creates an inherent and implied competition among individuals in a group. Individuals must compete for finite resources in order to live and thrive. These things are required for any creature to prosper and propagate a permanent impact on the future - through procreation, passing knowledge, or some other means of leaving a lasting legacy. It would seem implied then, that competition is the law of nature at all levels. However, the precious resources which are most finite in human civilization and society are limited only by artificial scarcity. Competing brings short term gains for the individual at the expense of the collective, but acting competitively fails to take into account the benefits of advancing the collective selflessly - something from which the individual benefits in the small term, albeit to a lesser extent, and also in the long term.

Cooperation, on the other hand, is what gave us civilization in the first place. The first agrarian human societies wouldn't have been possible without cooperation - someone had to agree to till the land, to guard the fields, to watch the children, and suddenly families became tribes. Tribes became villages, became towns, cities, states, nations, and now a global community. The biggest advancements in recent history have been made by large scale cooperation - like the International Space Station floating above our heads right now, or the global network of servers and cable lines we call the modern Internet. The vast majority of so-called finite resources could easily be made more abundant and more available through increased cooperation. 

Take, for example, an individual competing for financial resources. That individual is presumably competing for resources in order to provide a high quality of life for themselves, and if they have any intention of impacting they future they probably intend to do it through some kind of major investment of resources - the most common example being children. This person can choose to hoard resources in order to improve their personal situation, and imbue their child with a position of privilege by default. On the other hand, the idea of cooperation would say this person should sperad their resources n order to improve the society as a whole, so that their child requires less advantages in order to succeed in the the first place. Not only does this accomplish the same goal of preparing your progeny to succeed, but it lays the groundwork for a better human society for them to live in.

What then, does cooperation mean for those who don't intend to procreate? If you aren't going to make a permanent mark by reproducing your genes, you can make a permanent mark by leaving this world better than you found it. I will probably never have children, and I'm the end of my genetic line, so my particular genetics will die with me. But, I believe I've contributed physically and emotionally to the wellbeing of the people around me. Throughout my life I have, on repeated occasions, made concrete efforts towards goals which represent my ideas for a better world - so that I can die knowing the world is on its way to being improved, in at least some small part thanks to my contributions. If I acted competitively and hoarded resources for the sake of my own short life, I would leave no real lasting impact on the world because the largest net gain the world would see from my life would be my death - when my resources return to the economy.

I think it should be pretty obvious when you look around the modern world - we succeed when we work together, and we fail when we don't. The leaps and bounds made in advancing technology in the last hundred years alone - those should serve as the best example of the power of cooperation.

