Pick up a magazine or peruse the internet and you are very likely to find many articles discussing ways you can be happy. Perhaps the article will give you five ways to be happy at a crappy job or seven ways to ensure happiness in your marriage. The question remains, however, are people more likely to be happy if they fous on their personal goals or on the happiness of others?

The either/or question is a false dichotomy. In my opinion, it is important to find a balance between the two. Focusing on just one or the other can lead to alienating others, a feeling of emptiness, or even resentment and anger. One may find it is actually the small things that will provide an overall feeling of contentment.

For example, seeking happiness in the form of career success can lead to feelings of self-worth as one collects accolades or even material goods. This can be well deserved if one has devoted honest time and energy into the quest. However, it can also leave one feeling like an imposter or undeserving. It can even result in alienating friends or loved ones during the journey. 

Some who become more self-actualizing as they age may recognize that there can be a feeling of emptiness if one's pursuit of happiness bulldozes others. This is when one may seek happier fullfillment through philanthropic endeavors. Giving and making others happy can lead to a genuine feeling of interal content.

Still, there is a danger in exclusively tending to others' happiness. It  can be very unhealthy if it is not balanced by also tending to one's own happiness. Resentment and anger could build up after a sustained period of neglecting oneself to make others happy. This is why it is important to also nurture oneself. 

Small things may actually be enough to elicit happiness. It may be enough to take a moment to appreciate the aroma of a fine tea, or congratulate yourself for walking across the lot instead of parking next to the door when running an errand, or enjoying the infectious grin of appreciation when you assist another in some small way. Collecting several of these micro-feelings a day may just provide the overall feeling of happiness we seek.

In conclusion, happiness is not just a focus on personal goals or just a focus on the happiness of others. It may simply be a balance of both through a series of small events.
