Ten years ago more or less I was a Peace Corps volunteer in Benin, West Africa.   As part of our language training class, I was assigned to go to the market to buy something using the local language and then bring it back to class in a show and tell kind of fashion.  At the market, I saw a table that looked like children's toys.  There were hand carved wooden figures dressed in home made looking clothes.  When I brought my trinkets back to the group, the African teacher gasped in fear.  I was so confused.  I had felt so confident that I had followed instructions correctly.  Regathering his composure, he informed me that I had purchased Voodoo Dolls.  

Why hadn't the person selling these items told me? Clearly, they knew I thought they were children's toys.  I had only one conclusion: to make a sale.  While this might be a classic example of cultural misunderstandings,  I started to think about all of the ways in the US that marketers do the exact same thing.  It's no coincidence that cigarettes have cartoon mascots or vapes come in cotton candy flavor.  Promoting products to make a sale, no matter how innappropriate, is everywhere and it took me stepping outside my own culture to recognize it.

Now, I understand why people might give marketers the benefit of the doubt.  After all, cute characters can also be appealing to those old enough to smoke.  But lawsuits against the tobacco company has revealed data that confirms the company knew what they were doing and they were selling dangerous products to innocent consumers.  Their drive to increase the bottom line started targeting a new generation of smokers or vapers.  The law suits further revealed that Philip Morris was actually adding additives to make the product more addictive.  

Thinking back to my Peace Corps experience buying chidrens toys, I realize that it was me who was a child like consumer.  I had no business buying Voodoo artificats.  even possessing such items can damage the community relationships that I was so eager to build.  It turns out that greed is universal.  Putting people at risk is universal.  Fooling them into thinking they are getting something else even when the consequences could be deadly is unversal.  I am here to argue that the federal governemnt needs to create a truth in advertising committe to protect greedy marketers from harming naive consumers.  That's right people, it's time to stap the greed.  
