Images and impressions can impact the way people view others in everyday life. People often will base their opinion on someone just by interacting with them once. This can be very dangerous because someone's full character might not be exposed since they are judged by one impression. Impressions can affect the view of people, but also affect our view of products, shows, and much more. This essay seeks to examine why impressions have effected people excessively by giving specific examples from politics, social media and advertisements. 

Impressions made by politicians likely has a long-lasting effect on people's views. This has become detrimental in some instances because often we will base too much of a person's worth on one impression. If we had a bad impression of them, this can lead to someone else being elected which might not be what was truly desired since the first impression clouded over their full ability. Many people will see or hear from a politician one time and make a snap judgment. In doing so, they do not get to see the full capability of the politician and what they are capable of. This effects people too much and can cause issues, especialy if they express these beliefs to friends without knowing what they are truly discussing. Therefore, impressions made from politicans can have damaging outcomes. 

Social media and advertisements may cause for people to make an impression that is too quick and effects them too much. Impressions made by social media and advertisements often go hand in hand because advertisements are often seen on social media. People usually believe advertisements and statements they hear from people they admire or respect. Advertisements are easy to believe because they can draw people in before they get to try the product and form an opinion from the product rather than the advertisement. The advertisement should not control people's opinions but because impressions have gone rather far, people will often let this effect them too much. They will buy this product and possibly be disappointed because they liked an advterisement wihtout exploring their other options. Social media influencers often post advertisements or products they enjoy causing their followers to let their impression effect them and their feelings toward the product without even seeing or using it. These impressions can disrupt people from making their own opinions and letting other opinions drive their life and priorities. 

While impressions can have a very harsh effect, others might believe impressions are necessary to form a relationship to a product or person. Impressions are important and often necessary to initiate opinions, but they should not be fully relied on. If they are fully relied on, people often miss out without even realizing it. These opinions are not incorrect, but we should not let these impressions affect opportunities that could potentially change our initial opinions. Initial impressions are supposed to be subject to change, so we should be open to letting new impressions form that will not put too of an effect on people.

Images and impressions can effect people more than we should allow them to. This can cause more problems than it can solve. As a society, we should work towards moving away from letting impressions rule too much of our lives. If we do not stray away from this, more missed opportunities to judge products, people, and other items in a fair manner slip from within our fingers. It is not too late to stop letting impressions effect us too much and too often. We will be better off by letting first impressions simply be first impressions and learning more from our own experience.
