Despite how important happiness is to us, it can be illusive or hard to understand for us. Lets think of happiness based on our personal goals as opposed to gaining happiness from the joy of others.

Personal goals are essential for happiness, but they will likely change ovr time. Also, all things pass, and do not last forever, so it is important to keep that in mind when thinking of how happy completing goals will make us. On the other hand, there is always joy and happiness to be found with our families, children, religious groups, etc. 

People are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others because the individual sharing in the happiness of others has a greater impact than the individual pleasing only themselves. The impact of the group is larger than the indivisual. 

A fire built for yourself is certainly satisfying, but what if you could see warming fires built for your entire village? Certainly, this would give you more happiness than a single fire for yourself only. There would be warmth for you and others everywhere you go in the village, so their happiness would become yours, and yours theirs.

Let's consider the fictional charater Ebenizer Scrooge. He must have had many personal goals accomplished in his life, but by not sharing happiness with others, Ebenizer became miserable despite his accomplished goals. 

It is true that witnessing and/or causing the joy ofothers creates good brain chemicals that  make us happy. Surely, this has purpose. If humans are herd animals, we are naturally likely to help one another, and receive joy from doing so. This trait helps to keep us happy and thriving as a species.

One can argue that humans are better off only cultivating their own happiness, but we see that time and time again throughout our history history, obseving and taking part in the happiness of others becomes our own happiness and contributes to our survival. 

So in the end, we see that happiness through personal goals is certainly positive and good. But the happiness of others, of our children, our families, our friends and our communities, is essential. In fact, we might find it hard to be happy, even with many goals accomplished, should we not observe and share happiness itself with others.
