You can't think or talk about modern society without talking about the idea of materialism. Most everyone in the world is searching for something - anything - to help them just get through life. The majority of the world spends their days working for someone else, trying to get money just to have a bed to sleep in, food to eat, and clothes on their back. But what happens when this isn't enough? What other things make life worth living? For many people, the idea of "buying stuff" contributes a lot to their own happiness in life. Capitalism in one form or fashion is a big part of the human experience, and buying things tends to make people feel like all of their effort throughout life is the reward they get. This idea that materialism can make people happy is a huge part of feeling satisfied with our lives, and so we have to ask ourselves - Should we be criticizing ourselves as a human race in society for being materialistic?

When we start thinking about materialism, we have to think of an underlying cause of materialism. Society works because people have jobs, and have something to focus their energy on. These jobs are the force which "keep the world turning". Without jobs, people would be even more bored, less intelligent, and less prone to social interaction than they already are. A large portion of these jobs go towards "creating something" - whether it's in the design industry, engineering industry, manufacturing industry, or even the shipping/logistics industry. We are able to have a functioning society because we give people jobs where they are essentially creating material goods in one way or another. We have to look at materialism as NECESSARY for our society to begin with. Without some sort of materialism, there would be less jobs for people than there already are, and people would get bored with life.

We also have to think about the idea that by and large, these material possessions matter and are relevant and necessary to our lives. If you only had a home, a bed, and one pair of clothes, you'd feel quite restricted in your life. Being able to customize, personalize, and be decisive with the things that you buy allow you to create a world around you that feels like it fits your personality. Everyone has a deeper set of characteristics that make them an individual human, and we use these characteristics to determine the type of person we are - and who we want to be. Buying things allows us to further express this individuality, and allows us to really be the type of person that we want everyone to perceive us as. Without materialism we would simply be more akin to robots, or "just another cog in the machine". When we couple this with the idea that we all have to go to jobs and work, we start feeling like this materialism is necessary to feel justified in the way that the rest of society operates.

One of the most interesting things about society is the fact that we all have to exist together on this planet. We all have to live around each other, share resources, contribute to the overall good of the planet, and essentially be cordial and friendly with each other to ensure that society can function and maintain itself. Because we are all humans, capable of a wide range of emotions, from negative to positive, there has to be other things in society that keep us thriving and going. There has to be things that make us feel happy, satisfied, and feeling like we matter in this world. Without the ability to feel happy or satisfied, society would cease to exist. People don't want to live in a world that is no fun or doesn't allow them to express the way they feel inside. Buying things allows us to feel like we are contributing in some way to the society we live in - whether that is something abstract like contributing to art and beauty by purchasing something, or contributing in a more "concrete" way like ensuring that Joe Johnson down the street has a job to go to tomorrow. We cannot fault or criticize society for putting us in a situation that we would inherently be drawn to regardless. People want to buy things because they want to feel wanted and needed.

It may seem strange, but buying things and the idea of a "consumer culture" are very capable of promoting these positive feelings. We buy things not only out of necessity, but because they make our lives better in some way. Maybe that new shirt you buy makes you feel more attractive, which increases your self confidence, which leads you to going out more, which leads you to meeting a partner that shares your same world view, which leads to marriage, which leads to living a fulfilling life. Maybe the new car you buy leads you to traveling more, where you find that you really hate your current career path, which leads you to trying to find yourself, which leads you to augmenting your life, which leads you to feeling more appreciative and satisfied with your life. Something so simple like buying something can ultimately change the trajectory and purpose of what you think your life is. 

Even though there are multiple and incessant instances where purchasing and buying and relying on material goods can be considered "negative" or "counterproductive" to society, by and large these types of experiences are necessary to keep society thriving. We shouldn't look at these types of materialistic purchases as being a detriment to society - we should be looking at them as a way to prop up the people of the world in a physical, mental, emotional, and psychological way. Without materialism, we would all be relegated to sitting around and only interacting with each other in the most bland and neutral way possible. 

Materialism allows creativity, individuality, personality, and substance of a person to show through. These are the things that make people interesting, the things that start conversations, the things that help society progress forward. Materialism is the "jumping off" point for so many other aspects of our society that there is no way that we can only look at materialism as being negative. We have to take the bad with the good, and we have to consider the idea that society is better off for being so rooted in materialism and materialistic views. Without it, we'd be nothing but a bunch of naked humans sitting around a fire and yelling at each other.
