Modern society is often full of material goods that may or may not be important to who we are as people. Material goods are really only worth what either a person or a society place upon it. To that end, I don't believe that materialism is enherintly bad part of modern society as it has always been part of human nature. I will show that while materialism can be bad, it is also the driving purpose for a lot of human nature and entrinsic to being a human being.

People strive for material goods, even if society as a whole may not put a high price on the goods. People like different things and while some are socially important all around, others are not. Does that make wanting and desiring these things, like a new car, a phone or some collectable, bad? I don't think so. If happiness is derived from the object, even if it is simple and cheap, like a new pen, or complex and expensive like a house. That doesn't make one worse than the other. It is simply a desire humanity has had from the onset and is only bad when taken to an extreme, like devoting your whole life to aquiring goods.

Materialism has always been a part of society and will always be to a degree. People may say that in the end it is a bad trait of humanity that has only gotten worse in modern times due to the availability of material wealth and how society sees it. How it skews peoples ideas of what is good for them and can corrupt people. While part of this is true, in the end humans are doing what humans do and what they want to do. They want material wealth and material wealth for some people leads to happiness, even if that wealth is not worth anything to another person. Even if one were to label materialism as a bad trait of modern society, one can't deny that it has always been a part of society and doesn't make modern society any different.

In the end we are all materialistic to a degree and that isn't a problem. Some time periods and places may put more of a negative connotation on that part of society, but some may not. In the end it is up to the individual to make up their mind about that. I don't believe that materialism is bad or good, just a part of society that we have to live with. Modern society is just another part of a long line of cultures, people and ideas. So if people say that we are too materialistic and that its a bad thing at the present time, they aren't thinking of how materialism is just a normal part of the human condition and that like most things, it ebbs and flows. It is, in the end just a part of humanity and not a bad part of modern society.
