"Seeing is believing," "A picture is worth a thousand words," and "What you see is what you get" are some famous sayings in our lexicon. Most importantly, they point out our nature, that we as humans pick up information visually and learn by seeing things. Due to this nature within all of us, experts in everything from advertising to politics know that both creating and maintaing certain images creates impressions in our minds of how things seem, not what they really are. This all points out the power and influence of curated images on the people that are exposed to them.

A famous example of the power of visual impressions dates back to the famous presidential debate between Nixon and Kennedy. It was the first televised presidential debate which created a high amount of interest. There was also a radio broadcast of the debate. Most notable was that Kennedy wore makeup and was impeccably dressed. Nixon did not wear makeup and looked sickly under the studio lights as well as looking like he had a five o'clock shadow. Those who watched the televised debate stated that Kennedy won. However, people who listened to the radio broadcast stated that Nixon had won. These differing opinions demonstrate how important it is for public figures to create a specific image and shows the resulting success from taking such actions.

Another example is the famous introduction of the Iphone. Previously, the Blackberry was the dominant smartphone but it was more business orientated and not marketed to consumers. In the Apple keynote address, Steve Jobs created an everyman image of himself - a guy wearing normal cloths instead of a suit and tie. This style has since been copied by many other CEOs when they do public keynote speeches. He then introduced the Iphone but emphasized its ease of use rather than it being a technological powerhouse. By being a normal guy introducing a simple but easy to use new type of phone, Steve Jobs managed to basically turn around Apple and eventually drive Blackberry out of the market. Apple Iphones became a frontrunner in the market and despite competition many years later, still retains a strong marketshare among smartphones.

Of course, carefully curating an image doesn't always work and can sometimes be detremental if done incorrectly. A notable example is Howard Dean and his famous scream. He was a frontrunner candidate for the Democratic Parties presidential running but one night during a speech, he ended it by doing an off the cuff scream which sounded less like a warcry and more like some yokel yelling at a cow. His poll numbers crashed and it took him out of the running. So despite doing well and creating a careful impression of himself, all it took was one bad incident to have it all come crashing down and make all other impressions obselete.

As previously stated, marketing and curating impressions can be very beneficial in all walks of life from business to politics. By controlling how people see things, a organization can reap incredible rewards through influencing behaviors. An appealing candidate for office can receive more votes and a cool consumer gizmo will be sought after. It cannot be understated how important impressions are and why creating a favorable image can be the difference between victory or defeat.
