Images and impressions do have an effect on people whether you like to admit that you are suspectible or not to such things. It is human nature I believe, to form opinions about what we see in way of advertisements, political messages, etc. Some people get carried away by these impressions more than others, and so for some people these images and impressions do have too great of an impact which can sometimes have disasterous consequences.

Creating an favorable image or impression of whatever is being promoted is the main goal of advertising. I would not say that images and impressions conveyed to consumers about products, celebrities, etc, are necessarily having "too much" of an effect on people, because you need to take some personal accountability and disconnect yourself from time to time, particularly if you are feeling overwhelmed or feel as though you are experiencing sensory overload from the variety of advertisements that are all around us.  On the other hand, businesses have a responsibility to be honest in their advertising, and not intentionally mislead the public. The same is true of politicians and anyone else in the public eye who is using advertising to the public to sell or promote their goods and or service.   

We all need to keep this in mind that although businesses, public figures and politicians, should be completely honest and forthcoming that at the end of the day, it is up to you the individual, to research what is being presented to you and to look at things with a healthy amount of skepticism to protect yourself because the advertiser is looking out primarily for his or her own self and at the end of the day is trying to make a buck so they are not the most objective source regarding their own product or service.  It is important to keep a level head and not be sucked in by fancy advertising or vague and or grandiose promises of what a product or service can do for you and to take a step back and not let yourself be played for a fool.  Certain people are obviously more likely to be drawn in by certain images due to low IQ, generally trusting nature, or senility that comes with age. 

In conclusion, because there are people who are more easily taken advantage of through less that honest advertising, it is important to keep in mind that some of these images and impressions will impact people too much and as such we all have duty to expect that businesses, public figures and politicians be held to a certain standard regarding their advertisements to avoid people being taken advantage of, and or being led astray in ways that can negatively impact their physical, or emotional health as a result of being too greatly impacted by what they see or by being intentionally mislead through dishonest or greatly exaggerated advertising.  

