Cooperation has been the main reason humans have survied and thrived for this long. In order to survive as cavemen we had to rely on others in our tribe for food and safety and work coopertively. Competition has been a part of evolution helping to further the strengths of certain species. It is obvious that competition can create a rivalry which pushes for the best performance from each candidate. The question is whether cooperation can produce better results than competition. 

Competition does a good job of showing which candidate has the best skills in the task at hand. It can also reward hard work by giving the winning candidate what they fought for, be it food or a mating partner. Many species in nature mate by choosing the strongest partner to reproduce with. Humans are thought to be more intelligent than animals and therfore have evolved past these old strategies of mating. In order to ensure that a tribe of humans will be able to endure the obstacles that nature creates cooperation is a must. Competition makes sure one of the total amount of participants will win or succeed. On the other hand, cooperation makes sure that all participants can succeed even if the goal must be split between the group. If a hunter makes a kill and saves all of the food for himself then he will not be able to rely on help from his tribe. If a hunter shares his kill with the tribe then more people benifit creating an environment of caring. Now the hunter will be able to rely on the tribe for childcare, safety, and materials that they may not be able to procure themselves. 

Nature has always rewarded the strongest of the species as far as mating and feeding is concerned. Alpha male animals have their pick of mating partners and fist access to food. But, even in nature the alpha male of the group protects them and shares the food that they procure. Humans are thought to be more intelligent than animals and should demonstrate that in society. 

In conclusion, cooperation has helped our species overcome obstacles as a group because we supported each other. Supporting others helps the whole group advance in  way that competition wouldn't. More individuals succeed with cooperation than competition. Although competition has it's place in many activies such as sports, it is not the best strategy to survive as a species. 

