Seemingly ubiquitous, materialism is a much maligned phenomenon in modern society. Often defined as the accumulation of goods in exhange for money with the end goal being only the possesion of said goods. A popular target for those who would point toward materialism being yet another sign in a long series of signs of the social down fall of humanity has it has progressed into modernity I would like to offer the alternative view, that materialism, that is the accumulation of goods for the goods sake, is not an inheriently immoral condition of the weak willed, but an emergent response to the the economic instability that saturates our modern world.

The accumulation of goods during times of surplus is a natural inclination of any animals, humans not excluded. We feast and store up while we can to be prepered for when we can not. It is ingrained in our cultural and even genetic ancestory. It makes us feel good to posses the items even when we have no immediate need of them because there is an implicit understanding in our ancient lizard brains that storing up for the future is good. While the days of intenerant hunter-gathers are a thing of the past for the modern society, the feast and famine cycle of our ancestors continues to exist in the form of the economic cycles of boom and bust that are inherent in our economic system so people gather to themselves whatever they can out of an instinct to prepare for some unforseen famine, but because the economic famine of bust is so abstract and presents differently compared to a more natural famine, people gather to themselves whatever material they might lay hands on whitout full understanding of why they do and why call this unintentional preperation materialism.

In conclusion, materialism isn't an evil of modern society deserving of criticism, it is a sad symptom of the systems by which we operate society in the modern age and it is those systems that are most deserving of criticism. So next time you feel the need to buy something jsut to have a thing, think about the conditions that have given rise to the need for you to commit such an act to get a domapine hit before going back to being a part of it all.
