Materialism is unavoidable. Human beings will always want things, especially things they do not yet have. This is not inherently bad. In modern American society, however, materialism is sometimes prioritized above all else: above virtue, civic engagement, or saving and preparing for the future. Materialism is a serious issue when pursued single-mindedly or to the exclusion of other important behaviors. American society can be fairly criticized for enabling this kind of obsession on a large scale.

That materialism is a major part of American life is the result of our capitalist economic system, but more than that, the uniquely American way that capitalism is glorified in this country. In such a system workers' compensation is tied to their value as a member of the workforce, at least theoretically. Those who advance further in life, such as doctors, lawyers, and financial professionals, are rewarded with higher incomes. This additional money allows them to purchase more and nicer things than the average American can reasonably afford. This results in a clear and visible stratification between classes based on money and possessions: those whose labor is more highly valued are more able to enjoy nice things.

America is an aspirational society. The American Dream is that hard work will ultimately be rewarded by economic comfort. The flipside of this is the unsaid part: if you fail to achieve that economic comfort, it must be because you didn't do the right things. Maybe you didn't work hard enough or took on a foolish am ount of student debt. This creates a simple framework for understanding the world and one's own place in it. The economically disadvantaged aren't victims, they're just the people who weren't willing to put in the work to enjoy what our country has to offer. They have less, but they should have less, right? Whereas the wealthy represent America's promise: this is what you, too, might one day have, as long as you do what you're supposed to do. Proposals to tax the wealthy are scorned by many; if we raise the taxes of the wealthy, my taxes will be higher when I'm wealthy one day!

I believe the main issue here is viewing people first through a lens of materialism. Instead of looking at the impoverished as a disadvantaged group vulnerable to exploitation, the tendency is to extrapolate their character from their lack of possessions. At the same time, many excesses of the wealthy are regularly ignored, as if their accumulation of capital and earthly goods is further evidence of their merit. The existence of the reward is the proof that the reward was earned.

Whether this behavior is right or wrong, desirable or not, there is a clear trend of thinking of other Americans differently based on their financial situation. Economics should not be a shorthand for character, aptitude, potential, or moral virtue. There are terrible rich people and wonderful poor people. Reducing people to what they own is dehumanizing. To solve the larger problems facing our country, it's crucial that we address them with intellectual honesty. The truth is, America has an unhealthy relationship with materialism. It's affecting how Americans think about other issues that should be unrelated.
