     We all engage in materialism, the act of getting items to own and the spending of money to get those items. Most of us work to be able to do just that, get and own all kinds of things. Should we continue to work and produce or is there a better way? What if society wasn't so materialistic, what would it look like? Would it be more cooperative and caring, or would society devolve into being materialistic again after a short time?
     From an early age we are taught to work full time and make money, so that we can afford to buy and consume all kinds of goods. Are we teaching good skills to our youth, or are we molding them into being mass consumers of all goods. Would it be better to put the emphasis on altruistic acts and possessing simple possessions? That would take a radical restructuring of society as it's basic core level.
      Is the wanting of possessions an inherent trait or are we taught to always want more, to never be satisfied?  Can we criticize those who are always striving to get more, be more, do more, or should we applaud them for going after what they want and need? Is the desire to have more a bad thing, or does it give us goals to strive for, does it increase our prosocial behaviors? 
     I'm not sure anyone has a definitive answer for those questions.  I believe if we examine the behavior of very materialistic people we will find both good and bad in it.  The good would be the constant desire to work and purchase, to contribute to society's well being. The bad would be if it was an overwhelming desire to acquire things at the expense of others. As with all things it seems that materialism has good and bad aspects to it. 
    Is modern society any different than those in the past? Since the dawn of mankind we have had a desire to get more, do better, succeed in ways that weren't previously thought of. Humans are innovative and intelligent, they won't continue to do something that has negative consequences. Our society puts on emphasis on getting more, on being materialistic. The upside of that is that you have to work to be able to afford to be materialistic, you have to put forth effort and desire to get what you want. If people weren't driven by the want of having things, would they be as likely to contribute to society in positive ways? Materialism leads to prosocial behavior that benefits all that are connected to it. 
    Materialism in itself isn't a bad thing.  The desire to have and to get more things isn't a negative in people.  It can lead to better behavior that is beneficial for all of society. If we weren't striving to have more then people would become lazier and more selfish. Excessive materialism isn't a good ideal to live by, but the desire to have that something extra can lead to positive behaviors. You can easily criticize materialism as being selfish, but the behavior leads to a person contributing to society in ways they wouldn't have had they not had the desire to get more. 
     Materialism is like any human behavior, there are positive and negative aspects to it.  Excessive materialism isn't a good behavior, it is self serving and greedy.  The opposite, not wanting anything, can be just as damaging as excessive.  For society, and people on an individual level, a healthy dose of materialism is beneficial and leads to positive actions by those individuals. We can criticize those who are excessive but I believe that a little bit of materialistic behavior is good for society, keeps it running and inventing and innovating.  
