Success is often what determines someones stake in life. By achieving great success, one may hope to get a promotion, a raise, or even as far as going down in the history books for something truely iconic. However, getting to that point may not be so cut and dry. Sometimes, we must rely on our peers in order to climb the proverbial ladder that has been set before us. Other times, we must go against our peers and try to outdo them in order to achieve that same recognition. The question we have to ask ourselves, is it the path of cooperation and peace that will define us, or will it be the relentless dedication and self preservation.

Personally, I believe that working together to achieve a common goal is the better route. By working together, you not only dont have to work as hard, but you also gain the admiration and support of your peers. On a simple task, such as coming up with a supply list for an office, it is much more convenient and a better use of time, to simply reach out to the people in the different areas for what they require to have a stocked area. Otherwise, you will have to spend unnecessary time going to each department and taking a creating a list from scratch. You would then risk missing something that could be vital to the wellbeing of the entire department, simply because you decided to not reach and use your support system. 

On the other hand, if a supply list needed to be created for an office and you decided to tackle the task on your own, you would not only know that you completed the list to the specifications you have been given, but you would also not cause other people to have to stop what they are doing to contribute to the task. When the job is complete, you then get to take all of the credit for yourself and you would be the soul beneficiary of any reward for a job well done. 

For the wellbeing of the entire office, in this scenerio, i belive that a cooperative approach would be the most beneficial to the office, at the risk of having to share whatever the reward may be. By working with your peers, rather than against them, you can ensure that everyones needs are met and prevent any delays in the workflow. If you worked alone and missed something, and didnt, in the very least have someone else knowledgeable in that area overlook your list, there is a chance that there could be something critical to the job that will not be stocked and thus halting any progress for not only a department, but perhaps the office as a whole. By being a teamplayer, you not only gain the support of your peers, but you also create lasting professional relationships that may be useful in the future. If you step on everyones toes on the road to sucess, there will be no one left to congratulate you once you arrive at your destination.

In conclusion, success is what you make it. It is possible to be successful by running headfirst into a task, no matter who or what is in front of you and standing out in the crowd to garner attention. However, it is much simpler to cooperate with your team in working towards a common goal and earning respect to be just as successful. To achieve success is to achieve greatness, but no matter the riches, the clout or the glamour, it can be a very lonely stay at the top of that pedastle if you dont bring along some friends. 
