What does it mean to be happy? If one was to ask one hundred people, one woudl probably get one hundred varied answers. As a complex emotion, happiness means different things to differnt people. However, most would likely agree that it comes from being active: either pursuing personal dreams or assisting others reach theirs. And in the end, it seems obvious that true happiness comes from helpings others or helping make the world a better place.

Focusing on the needs of others brings one great satisfaction.  Raplh Waldo Emerson once said, "Make yourself necessary to someone," and that has been a personal mantra of mine since I first read it as an undergraduate many years ago.  As a teacher, that seems to be one of the main tasks that I do every day. Today, so many kids come to school with baggae from unhappy home lives, that I need to find a way to bring a bit of joy to their day before I can even begin to think about teaching them.  They need someone they can trust, they can rely on, and someone who cares about them and their goals.  If I can be that someone, then I'm doing things right. There;s a sense of accoplishment that comes from knowing that I made another person's day just a bit brighter, and perhaps they will pay that forward. 

Some may argue that personal happiness should come first. You have to focus on self-care before you focus on the needs of others, but I disagree. My happinees increases maifold when I play a part in making the world a better place. My whole career has been predicated on that idea.  Yes, I need to be happy, but if I can make others happy, I can go home every night absolutely stoked.  There is no better feeling than being a positive force and seeing the impact that it makes on others. Being a teacher feeds my desire to inspire others, and in turn, that makes me very happy.

In the end, I guess it all comes down to how you look at things and how you want to live your life. Some may feel that their self-happiness comes first, but for me, focusing on the happiness of others is of the utmost importance. If I couldn't do that, I think that life would be very empty.  One of my favorite lines of poetry comes from Emily Dickinson: "If I can stop one heart from breaking, then I shall not have lived in vain."  That may not be the exact quote verbatim, but the essence of it is another of my life mantras.  It's not about me; it's about how I can impact others. Helping others is what happiness means to me.

