          When you think of your favorite product, is part of the reason you like it so much because of the cute packaging or label? If you think of your most beloved celebrities, entertainers, and politicians and why you like them, does it have anything to do with how they look or their charming personality? When they say you can only make a first impression once, they certainly are not lying. But why is that first impression so important in the first place? Should we really be judged that quickly? We have gotten far too comfortable accepting what people say at face value. Our impressions of others and images of products all spruced up, looking their best, are having far too much of an effect on people. 
           All over social media, we are bombarded with images of products we do not need, but that are so colorful and attention catching, we cannot help ourselves. The same goes for everyone wanting to become a social media influencer. Taking a look at almost anyone's social media page will not give you a real, true in depth look into their lives. All you see is what they want you to see. Think about it, do you put pictures up for the public to see that show the hardest, darkest days of your life? I'm willing to bet the answer is no. So what would make you think everyone else is not doing the exact same thing. This is especially true for celebrities, politicians, and entertainers. They want to have a pristine reputation to not only stay relevant, but to convince you to buy and watch their products. 
           The same can be said for the way marketing has become so oversaturated into our lives. So now every company is trying to make themselves stand out from the crowd. All this really involves is a pretty bow and wrapping paper to make their product look pretty. Or even having a commercial about how socially concious their company is now. It is a fact that this "offsetting" of CO2 through companies is NOT a long term solution to global warming. For example, if Ford motor company, which obviously gives off a lot of carbon, were to say, we are offsetting our carbon by buying this big forest in minnesota and this will make us carbon neutral. This is not a solution, Ford would still be giving off too much carbon, and that forest was already there, possibly already protected from being demolished, so Ford buying it did not make a difference. And there is not enough empty land in the world to plant enough trees to offset all the carbon that would need to be offset by actually planting new forests. It is just not possible. However, if you heard that commercial, and did not look into it any farther, that sounds like a great thing, doesn't it? So now, you feel like Ford is trying to be a socially concious company. It is just empty words basically. They just want to improve their image with consumers. Money is always the bottom line in this world.
            All in all, the way people view others and products has become more important than their actual abilities and intentions. Just because something comes with a pretty bow wrapped around it, does not mean it is high quality. The same can be said for people. A celebrity or politician with a good reputation and charming personality does not necessarily mean they are qualified or good at their job. It is sad to admit, but the way people and products appear to us has become more important than what they can actually do, and that needs to change.
