Diogenes was one of the first thinkers to completely reject all aspects of material life, choosing to live inside of a barrel and adopt a viewpoint of cynicism. He pursued this way of living back in Ancient Greece, far before the advent of industry and the popularization of commercial goods. While the criticism of materialism seems to be a completely modern discourse, humans have always questioned the value of material goods and their effect on society. However, as commercial production continues to increase rapidly in today's society, the discussion feels more necessary than ever before. More people should take a deeper look at the sustainability of their spending, and the impact of their choices. While there is nothing wrong with enjoying the pleasantries of modern life, one needs to maintain certain ethics and enjoy responsibly.

Factory production now is higher than it ever has been. Though there are discussions about scarcity and meeting the demands of a growing population, the fact is, we are producing at a surplus. We have more goods than could ever possibly be distributed across every member of the human race, and yet we continue to produce even more every day - resulting in excess goods (which are usually perfectly fine and usable) being left to rot in landfills. This contributes to a multitude of environmental issues, including land, water, and air pollution. Materialism in and of itself isn't necessarily the problem, it's the way we approach material goods. Moderation is the key - it is possible to have too much of a good thing. Living a luxurious life is one thing, but when that lifestyle comes at the cost of the planet, one needs to reflect and consider if it's truly worth it. Furthermore, owning expensive items is not the key to happiness. So much beauty and fulfillment can come from being in nature and experiencing the world with other people, which is why it is so necessary to maintain a sustainable lifestyle. 

Earth is our home, and it is our responsibility to protect it. We have to be mindful about the way we interact with nature, or else we won't have anything to enjoy in the first place. Criticism of materialism should not simply shame people for enjoying modern commodities, it should instead allow them to consider their impact and remind them to be mindful of how they consume. Living a life of excess is not only detrimental to the one doing it, but to the planet and all who inhabit it - human or not. We have the power to slow consumerism and allow nature to thrive. 
