The question of whether someones happiness depends on only focusing on their personal goals or focusing on the happiness of others is defiantly a complex issue. Honestly I am not sure, in my personal opinion, that it is not a combination of both.
I believe people need a balance between reaching all they can be and helping make others happy along the way. 

Lets say a person spends their entire life only focusing on themself and what they want to achieve in life. They grow up knowing exactly what they want and how to get it. They go to college and spend hours studying. They never go out or have any outside activities. They graduate and get an excellent job. They spend 50, 60, 70 or more hours working each week to climb the ladder of success. They never have time to go out and enjoy life. They achieve exactly what they have always wanted. On their death bed they look back over their life and maybe realize they did miss out on some wonderful things by being solely focused on their goals and nothing elese.  They see times where they may have been able to help others achieve happiness but they were to busy thinking of themselves to lend a hand. Will they feel regret in not taking a few hours of their lives to feel the joy of helping others?  Will they wish they had stopped for just a moment to help the ones in need? Could they have offered someone some direction if only they had taken the time? Could they have actually changed someones life just by helping?  They realize they have no real friends, no relationships, no family.  When they die will they have anyone remember how ambious they were and how they acheieved all their goals?

On the other hand there are people who spends a lifetime helping others achieve happiness. They go out of their way to always make sure other people are happy and satisfied even if that means sacrafising their own happiness. They never have time to just stop and think about themselves. They push themselves every day to make sure others find happiness.  In time this may become very mentally tireing. They have burn out and can't handle the smallest problems that life gives them.  They may find the very people they spent a lifetime making sure were happy are no where to be found in their time of need. Again like the previous person they find themselves alone. They may wonder if it was worth never taking time for themsleves and finding their happiness in other places, with other people.  Should they have thought of themselves just a little more? 

I think a person has to balance the two conepts. They need to focus on their goals but not let them rule them. Stop and look around at the beauty in the world every now then. Find happiness in taking time off to help others achive happiness.  Never lose yourself in one goal. Find a balance. Reach for the stars but make sure you bring others along on the journey. It is much less lonely when others are there to share life with you. In short there is nothing wrong with having goals for your life and wanting to achieve them. There is nothing wrong with wanting to make as many people happy as you possibly can.  But why can't you do both?  You may end up doubling your own happiness.
