One of the most well-known old adages is "never judge a book by its cover." But is that something we really practice on a daily basis in our lives? In modern society, we live fast; from our initial impressions on people coloring our thoughts on them, to picking out products in the store based purely on packaging, flash decision-making is what we use to get by in a world of hurrying. Is it really such a good thing to let these first impressions color our world so much?

Visual information is a key part of how humans interact with the world. In studies, it's been shown that visual feedback is processed faster within the brain than other sensory inputs. Advertisers use this to their advantage, and it's a big focus in how designs for ads, packaging, and branding is done. Consider the sleek, minimalist design for technology packaging that has been in use for years: people look at it and have an initial impression of simplicity, yet modern and fancy, regardless of the product's brand. With celebrities, we judge their looks, and not their actions. How many tabloids cover the appearance of an actress, rather than what she's been doing in recent years and how her work has been going? What about the rich and famous men out there, who throw about their words and wealth, but never back anything up or act selfishly while people still admire them? Online celebrities build entire brands off a personality they put out into the world, and that's the only thing people focus on about them instead of what they do.

It's important to accept that first impressions are impossible to ignore, but it's also important to learn to evaluate what we see and take time to process it. Although not doable in every situation-meeting someone only briefly for a customer-facing job, for example-it is important to take a step back and distance ourselves from what we first see. Controlling impulses is one of the signs of growing up and maturing, and the impulses that visual information give us need to be tempered to better navigate the world and make better decisions. The effect images and impressions have upon us is great, perhaps too much so, but with a critical eye we can better consume these things without letting them rule us; it's just a matter of learning to navigate these initial encounters, which is the trickiest part.
