Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. They influence our daily lives without us even knowing it. We buy, eat, wear, and vote for what the media dictates.

For example, the portrayal of women in advertising influences our view of what the ideal woman looks like: skinny with perfect skin, hair, and teeth. Women who don't fit that ideal are often considered to be lazy and fat. Another example is people fawning over a new item portraying it as the greatest. People just have to have it. The newest craze is just around the corner. Kids are influenced the most. OOh, that toy looks so much fun to play with when seen in the TV ad. Except most of the time the toys don't even work that way. But parents will run out and buy it because it looks like fun entertainment and they don't want their child to be the only one not to have it.

Public opinion is massively influenced by the media. For example, the current campaign against Donald Trump has the public believe he is the most hated man on the planet. That started when he campaigned against Hillary Clinton and continued when he faced off against Joe Biden. People act totally surprised that he had and still has so much support. In fact the elections were so close, no wonder people believed the idea of election fraud. Yet again, the media ridiculed Trump supporters and marks him as public enemy number one. So much so that President Biden now feels free to declare anybody supporting Trump as an enemy of the United States of America. And people cheer it on as if anybody not supporting Biden and his policies would be a threat to democracy. They completely forget that in a democracy there are minority opinions that have the right to be heard. All brought to you by the courtesy of media manipulation making people think the vast majority does think exactly like them and people who don't follow that are a threat.

One could argue people still can think for themselves. They are free to form their own opinions. But are they really? With the media bombarding us around the clock with their version of the 'truth' it looks like that 'truth' is the reality. Independent thinking is suppressed. To be accepted one has to follow the majority or suffer the consequences. People don't dare to speak up. Really the only time the truth might really come out is when it comes to elections. People voted for Trump when Hillary Clinton was supposed to win by a landslide. The media promptly came and claimed she had the majority vote, just our system is wrong. Quickly working on manipulating the masses enough to get Biden elected. 

One has to wonder when people wake up and learn not to be influenced by the media, advertisements, and appearances. I doubt it will happen. We went too far down that rabbit hole. We buy, eat, wear, and vote for what the media dictates. People follow like sheeps. The ones who don't are frowned upon. They are marked as outsiders and trouble makers. The enemy. 
