Across the world, people and the societies they belong to have an awareness and appreciation of beauty. The surface details may differ, however, all cultures have an obsession with certain forms and standards of visual presentation. Beauty is appreciated by most and aspired to by many. In addition, forms of social presentation and behavior may be merited as more valuable or desireable.

However, it is a fact that many people possesing beauty, poise, and grace can hide a dark interior. Some individuals use charm and seduction to influence others to nefarious ends. Unfortunately it seems to be unavoidable, that the masses of people who aspire to beauty and perfection will follow influential people and trends to the ends of the earth, and might just fall off the face of it. 

It is understandable why so many people are inspired beauty. Humans are extremely visually oriented, and features like plump skin, firm muscles, and shiny hair are health markers that may demonstrate vigor and longevity. In addition, bright colors in food may indicate that something is fresh, tasty and nutritious. After all, many of the compounds in plant pigments are now known to have disease fighting, antioxidant effects. 

And yet, at the same time, beauty can be a double edged blade. In nature, bright colors can also be an indicator of poisonous compounds, as is the case with brightly coloured poisonous frogs. These species use bright colors to alert unsuspecting animals that they are not to be messed around with. In the same way, the bright colors and flashing lights found in cities can confuse and alarm people into submission. These impressions can have strong, lasting effects on people, and cause them to lose their inner grounding.

It is always important to balance our visual appetites with longstanding wisdom and a firm sense of self. Beauty and visual presentation are just the cherry on top. Moral virtue, wisdom, and work ethic stand the test of time, through the thick and thin, far outliving youthful beauty and flashy trends. Beauty may be aspirational, inspiring innovation and motivating people to reach their goals. However, true wisdom relies on looking beyond the presentation and seeing the bigger picture.
