Today, we live in a world where everyone is constantly trying to win your attention. Whether it's Pepsi throwing an unwanted Ad in your face as you scroll through Tik-Tok, a little mom and pop online shop that you've never heard of while checking out your cousins pictures on Instagram, or the local politcians who won't stop texting you to vote for him or her, everyone is out there spending money to be up front and center in your conciousness. Because of this too many brands (even politcal) are developed with the intension to give a good visual impression, while lacking the foundation that make a quality product or service. I believe that continueing in this direction is going to be devastating for society unless we band together and do something about it as a whole.

I think that valueing image too much can lead to mental and emotional problems throughout society. Since the image being portrayed is not reality, a lot of people can set unrealistic expectations for themselves based on these false premises. I am guilty of doing that myself. I am in the process of developing my music production skill, and I have fallen into the trap of setting my expectations of myself too high, based on the success that I see others having in the industry. I have come to the false conclusion before, that I am not good enough because my music career isn't as effortless as it seems to a lot of other artists. The problem is that many of these artists do not talk much about the hours and hours and hours of work that they put into their work, and how many endless nights it took them to get to where they are. If you look at things on the surface, it may seem like you aren't good enough. But in reality, you are. You just need to keep putting in the work. It's a self-esteem thing, and I don't know if society is ready to handle that right now. So I think we would be better off if we took a step back from shoving glorified and manufactured images into peoples faces.

I know that a lot of people like the glamour and argue that we live in America, so these are the freedoms that we have worked so hard for. The freedom to have anything we want delivered to us at the click of a button, and not have to leave the house to go shopping anymore. These companies need to make a living too, so who cares if they throw ads at us? That's the price we pay for the luxuries that we have. Well, although I do agree that those are nice things, and I do enjoy having Amazon delivery me my stuff at the the click of a button, I would argue that why should we settle when we always have the option to make things better? Why can't we take advertising into a new direction so that we don't feel bombarded by brand after brand trying to project a false sense of themselves. It's just fake, and people don't like fake. People want genuine connectios with others, and that includes with the brands that they buy. 

People want to trust the brands that they spend their money on, and throwing a false image at people is not the way to go. It is damaging to peoples self image and can give them a false sense of reality. Powerful entities, like politicians and companies, need to start focusing on human connection instead of image.  If we don't start heading the other direction now, we are going to end up to become a very fake and frail society.




