Images and impressions are a part of our every day lives. We judge people and items constantly, often subconsciously. How something looks is often more important to us (whether we believe it or not) than how it functions or behaves. Why is this? Are we as humans simply relying more on pretty images and classy packaging than the reality beneath the surface? 

The marketing companies know exactly what they are doing. Think about your most recent trip to the grocery store. Colorful packaging and displays right at eye level. Products almost begging you to "buy me!" without a further thought. How often do you take the time to research the products that you buy? I'm willing to bet you buy many products because they look nice! That recent candle that doesn't have any scent? Well it looked pretty in the store. The newest bag of chips with the colorful logo? It may be loaded with salt and fat but, hey! At least your friends will be impressed with your newest find. 

Now what about your celebrity crushes. Your favorite politicians. Local figures in your community who you see on tv occastionally. I'm willing to bet the more attractive they are, the more you "like" them. Think about the last election you voted in. Did you pick the most attractive candidates without researching? Believe it or not, that's what many people do. Why is this? Does a pretty face make one a better worker?

It's time that we start looking beyond the image to get to the root of what truly matters. Some will say that only superficial people behave this way. I'd argue that more than half of us behave this way, often because we just don't have the "time" to look deeper. To conduct research. To get to the truth behind product claims and individuals' work ethics. If we truly want more for ourselves, we must do more for ourselves. We must work harder and smarter, we must go beyond our instincts to behave impusively, and truly recognize what it is that makes us choose, like, dislike, and alter those basic behaviors.

We will always be faced with images and impressions. But by realizing what is guiding our choices, we can stop the false thoughts and lies these images create in our minds, and begin making more informed, healthy, and realisitic choices in our lives.

