Today we are going to see about how we see things that are presented to us and what we take from it or what we under from it. The things around us will always be different form what we see or understand from it. We should not accept things as it is we have to analsis it before we get to a conclusion.
 Take the product we daily use and the how the media present their content. Everything is done for a reason not all will be give things that are made well for us. The advertisement we see has always some underlying facts which are hidden from us. I just to make to increase our temption for their product and make use temptation to gain fame and money for their product. As an example take apple products if we see deep inside the value of each product is higher than that of it meant to be, but still people line up to buy their products. Just by making us look nicer and richer by having their products. The media industry is way off from it orginal content. Most of the things made are often money minded, yes they have to make money I can understand but at the same time the content they provide should be useful and make an  impact on us. For promotion of product some industry people use either actors or any public fighure in order to increase the hype in their product, it is cetainly unreal yet people fell for this as their favorite person has endorsed or given hope about a particular prodcut or event.
Eventhough a lot points can be made about misleading products and advertisement, this things are meant to done in order to make the consumer look back at their products. As apple products are held in high price we cannot deny the fact the they are market leaders in creating new technology and constantly bringing new products to the table. Most of the public figures do not blindly support a product or an event. They to know that their word has an impact in the society and they act acoording to that. Generally to do not mislead people into falls advertisment and information.
To conclude this we cannot deny the fact that certain products advertisement and media content are constantly misleading and giving false hope and information. Its up to us to intercept the details in this contents then analysis it. We should not take everthing as granted. 
