To determine whether modern society should be criticised for being materialistic, first, we have to address the root of materialism. For hundreds of years, human society has searched for tools and ways to make life easier. To procur food, shelter, and clothing in the easiest and most efficient way possible to ensure survival. It is logical to assume as these skills were acquired, that they would also expand our knowledge and lead to more skills.Unforunately, the easier it became to meet our basic needs, the more time that was available. With time and nothing to do, human society looked for ways to enjoy this time. By creating games and leisure activities to enjoy, we found that we enjoyed leisure time  more than work and continued to devise ways to work less and enjoy our time more. This is what lead to accumulation of wealth and the perception of having more things equaling a better life.
Criticism is not conducive to solving the issues within our materialistic society. Society as a whole needs to place less emphasis on working to obtain more things and should try to emphasize working as an enjoyable option in life. Compensation being more in line with providing basic needs would lead to less materialistic enjoyment and more enjoyment of time. Also, providing more incentives to business to provide higher wages to ensure improved quality of life would help ease materialism. 
Much of the materialism in society is rooted in poverty. When poor people gain money in amounts they are not accustomed to, they tend to spend irresponsibly and in excess, because they are afraid they won't have that power in the future. If basic needs like food, shelter, and clothing were more accesible without such an amazing expense, people may not feel the accumulation of more things would make them happier. As a person who has struggled in poverty my whole life, I find this happens to me. We don't have what we need, so we spend what we want to try to counter-act that feeling. 
In conclusion, I do not feel that society should be criticized for being materialistic. Instead, I think more needs to be done for society as a whole to close the gaps between racial and ethnic groups. Everyone should have access to healthcare no matter the cost, and a Univeral Basic income would go a long way to ensure this would happen. It has worked for numerous countries and has been proven to lower poverty rates and increase happiness in people receiving these services. To criticize is not helpful to solve a problem but only to complain about a problem with no solution in sight.
