What produces a more successful employee, competition, or cooperation? I think both are valid options, are probably depending on the person, one may be more suitable then the other. However, the natural order of how species strive, thrive, and survive is through competition. The person or animal who is the smartest, strongest, or most clever is the one that will in the end survive and advance. And if you are not one of those things, you better work to get better, so you aren’t the one left behind. 

I think the simplest form of this comes through in sports. If I’m a basketball player and I want to get better, I have two options. To play lower competition than me, so I can exploit my strengths and avoid my weaknesses, or play better competition than me, so the opponent and exploit my weaknesses and avoid my strengths. Now in which one of those scenarios am I ultimately getting better? The one where my weaknesses are exposed, and I’m forced to either improve on them or be beaten. I think it is natural for people to avoid weaknesses but competition helps us to look those weaknesses in the eye and improve upon them. And if we don't or don't want to, then we will be passed upon for someone who has. 

Another exmple of this is through nature. Animals that are strong, will survive and advance, but if they're weak or lazy, they may not. This type of motivation is something that we can all use to help us reach our true potential and avoid failure. 

Now there is definitely a case to be made for cooperation as well. The saying goes that two heads are better than one. If we work as a team we can acheive more than any one person can. And ultimately in a business work setting we are all a part of the overall team that is trying to acheive it's goal. 

In the end I think that competition is best to improve ones self, but cooperation is best to improve the overall business or team. If we can use both to our advantage not only will we be successful, but we'll make our business successful too! 

