     Billions of dollars a year are poured into shaping brand images, be it celebrities, politicians, or products. So much research over decades has sought to uncover what influences a consumer's mind. Major industries understand that they must appeal to the human psyche and manipulate a person's means of interpreting reality to gain their confidence in their product. It is no understatement to say that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. They can shape a perception that people will become emotionally connected to and unwilling to let go.
     In the military, we were tought a very important lesson. Perception is reality. It does not matter what you know you were doing, only what someone thinks they saw you doing. You might have been sharing an amiable moment in passing with a senior enlisted officer, but an outsider sees fraternization which is punishable. Humans naturally want to fill in the information where there are gaps in our perception. It is imperceptable, but we don't see the whole picture of our reality. It's more like frames in a movie. What makes it seem fluid is our ability to create patterns and continuity from the information we are given. That's why the images and impressions we take in are so important. They inform our reality. Large corporations and brand ambassadors use this to shape how we recieve their products. From decades of research, color psychology tells us that blue is calming and red excites us, either passion or hunger. Even the way a person speaks will change the way they are percieved. Trump spoke in a plain way, not in a level higher than a grade-schooler, and he was received as more relatable to much of the country. The problem is when these industries and influencers methodically taylor their image, they hone in on pathos. Meaning that much of the reality they are presenting is conjuring up emotions like fear and uncertainty. That creates a link that no logic can break. Some may say that human have rational minds, but we are still under the influence of our most primal instincts. The brain stem that houses the fight or flight response is still with us and it can be activated as constant stress, influencing our perception of our surroundings.
    Images and impressions have so much of an effect that it is part of what shapes our reality. There is no way that it can not have an impat that can be detrimental if manipulated irresponsibly. We must educate ourselves to think critically.
