Often the question is asked, what truly makes a person happy? We look at this as a question to find the meaning of life. This happiness is often what gives us purpose, and it helps us focus on what is important for what we want to do with our lives and how to live it. The question is to look at ourselves with purpose and see what we can do to find where our happiness comes from.

The big question to answer is whether pursuing your own dreams and goals makes you as happy as striving to make others happy. This is something that people face often in the course of their lives. A person can get to the point of asking this question and feel that they need an immediate answer as a guide for how to live the rest of their lives. This is important to figure out as we need direction in life. We want to be happy in life as the top priority, and figuring out how to get there is something that some people never get around to.

People are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others. True happiness is derived from extrinsic goals, not intrinsic ones. Society wants us to focus on intrinsic goals based on accumulating wealth, having a reputation, and owning many things. While that helps in the short run, people find that to be unsustainable. By chasing these intrinsic personal goals, happiness is derived from getting things and once they get old, people get bored of that. This is not going to help them as they are stuck in the hamster wheel chasing personal goals and they are never truly satisified with what they have. They never stop to smell the roses and see what they have accomplished but rather stay focused on gaining and obtaining more. While achieving personal goals has a great effect on someone's happiness, the feeling is not shared. These personal goals can make a person happy but are not as sustaining in the long run. Personal goals are necessary but should be kept in perspective. The bigger world around you needs your help as well and that is where making others happy helps them and helps yourself.

For true happiness, extrinsic goals provide a much better way to satisfy yourself. You will be happier if you spend time growing your knowledge, improving the lives of those around you, and being involved in your own community. Gaining knowledge for oneself is a great way to keep turning over pages and learning more about the world around you. This is a way to be happy by knowing about others and not focusing on yourself. Improving the lives of those around you helps you to gain perspective. You have an internal happiness that is derived from helping others. Whether you are involved at a soup kitchen, packing other's lunches, volunteering for a community event, or cleaning up local trails, you are involved in something bigger than yourself. This is wonderful and has long-lasting happiness for everyone around you. Being involved in the community keeps you active and emotionally connected to your neighbors. That is a feeling you cannot get without others.

The happiness of others is more important to satisfy. This happiness lasts much longer and has wide-ranging ramifications as you will be able to pass positivity on and therefore a chain reaction that way. I'd go with that as the best choice for truly being happy. There is nothing better in life than making an impact to help others. People will enjoy your presence and associate you with positivity if you are a person that focuses on the happiness of others and that makes everyone more happy overall. Focusing on the happiness of others will help you be more happy yourself in the end.
