Thomas Jefferson wrote in the Declaration of Independence that an unalienable right of all persons is the pursuit of happiness. But what aim truly satisfies that desire, the goal of self-realization, or that of assisting others to their needs? A case could be made that there is some element of satisfaction to both goals, but the greater likelihood resides in altruistic support of others.

The lifestyle of self-gratification so lauded by entertainment, influencers, and marketing does fulfill our drives to satisfaction. We receive a boost of dopamine or whatever other hormones when we attain a goal or possess an object of longing. Realization of such goals may also lead to the attaining of yet other goals. But this tends to be a temporary feeling. Getting a new car once is exciting and pleasureable, yes, but if one received a new car every day, such enthusiasm would quickly wane and falter. Worse yet, the situation might have the revenge effect of becoming rueful.

This is not to say that pursuits of higher education or self-improvement have no value. Far from it; such goals may enable us to have more authority or ability to make real change to the situation around us. But so many experiences in life gain value from being shared. Further, the pleasure of attaining one's own goals can be experienced once, then only again through memory or adulation from others. In the latter case, our happiness becomes tied to how other people treat us, reinforcing our self-view. This begins to validate the thought that much happiness relies on external causation.

If one helps others to attain their goals, each day becomes a new project. Such a person shares in the delight of seeing others lifted from difficult situations and empowered. Rather than a one-time experience in our own life, a person gets to share in the joy of others experiencing such benefits again and again. This may not be as impactful as a single momentous event in a person's life, but many would choose a life of continued, repeated happiness over one with but a few exceptional moments.

A proverb spoken almost 2000 years ago states clearly, "There is more happiness in giving than in receiving." There is a conflict between what we are asked by the present world to accept as happiness, and the desire to see others encounter a better life for themselves. Ultimately they are not exclusive. But in the end, after we are gone, only helping others will truly have an enduring effect. Having that knowledge can bring us long-lasting satisfaction and happiness.
