Happiness is an emotion that we humans enjoy feeling. We spend a lot of time, money and other resources in order to chase happiness. People think that there are many ways for us to achieve happiness, however, without focusing on our own personal goals, we can never expect to achieve it. In this essay, I will give my rational for believing this way, address those who believe that our own happiness derives from helping other achieve their's, and wrap it all together in a succinct conclusion.

If you do not focus on your own happiness, you will never become happy. Imagine a person stuck in the same dead-end job that's made them unhappy for a long time. If they do nothing, they will continue to be unhappy with their work. However, if they focus on their own personal goals, they could gain the skills they need to quit their job and begin the career of their dreams. This example relates back to each one of us, we need to focus on overcoming what is holding us back from achieving our dreams and experiencing true happiness. Additionally, it is known that vision boards and mindfulness exercises can be extremely beneficial to personal satisfaction and happiness. These exercises rely on the individual to actively use their brain to focus on themselves. Given all of this information, it is easy to see that personal happiness begins with the individual actively focusing on it.

My opponents say that focusing on the happiness of others is how to achieve personal happiness. While a noble thought, this is not the case. If you put all of your time, energy, resources, and focus on the happiness of others, there will be nothing left for yourself. It is not fair to sacrifice your own wellbeing for everybody else. Additionally, if one did dedicate themselves to the happiness of others, it would be rare for somebody to return the favor, meaning that not only is the individual left feeling emotionally drained, they never end up experiencing the happiness that they worked so hard to give others. Of course, there is no problem with helping others achieve happiness as long as you are focusing on yourself. Picture a happy person as a cup full of water, and an unhappy person as an empty cup, it is impossible for an empty cup to fill an empty cup. Thus, one must focus on personal happiness before focusing on the happiness of others.

Happiness is a fickle thing. Many chase it in as many different ways. Some are successful, others are not. One will be more successful if they focus on their own goals and personal happiness, rather than focusing on achieving happiness through helping others be happy. In the end, we all just want to be happy.


