     Happiness can be from the inner self or from people. However, happiness comes from self accomplishments, goals, and self investments. People are always have a little bit of selfishness. For example, a mother is proud and happy her child got an A+, but the mother is happy to produce such an intelligent child. She is happy for the child, but ultimately, she is happy to raise this child correctly, which is an accomplishment for the mother.

      Goals are another sourse of self happiness. We set goals on saving money, trying to lose weight, or maybe just trying to get a good grade on the next test. All goals to set up for future happiness. We get so happy and post our accomplished goals. We hang up certificates, post pictures, or even just tell people with a smile. Happiness can also be achieved from self investments, by investing in time. Waiting for happiness. Self investments can also be purchasing a new house by youreself. 

      However, investing in time is something people do more. For example, when you are depressed, no matter how much people say everything will be okay, it won't be okay to you. You feel hopeless and get jealous of other people's happiness. You see them having something you don't. Jealousy and selfishness overtake you. However, people investing in time might be waiting for someone else. An example would be a person waiting for their husband to get their visa. The person is waiting for the husband and nothing feels good at all, nothing is happy. The husband makes the wife happy. In other words, you can also get happiness from other people. Back to the mother example, the mother sacrifices her happiness for her child. However, her child being happy, which brings the mother happiness because her hard work gave her child a good life. 

      Happiness can go both ways, where you can get happiness from other people or from yourself. Happiness can also be vise versa, where you are happy your child made an A+, which means you raised the child right, but you also sacrficed everything for that child, so that he/she can be happy. You are happy from your own accomplishments, but you are also happy about your own accomplishments making someone else happy. However, people find happiness when something is ultimately benefitting themselves. In other words, people find their own happiness by themselves.  From their self accomplishments, goals, and self investments.
