Materialism, a construct that has certainly evolved in many ways since the advent of the internet, is the root of almost all human suffering. Aside from religion, one might argue that materialism, in a broad sense, is the cause of all human conflict since the beginning of organized human civilization. Second only to religion, which not surpisingly, often encompases rules guiding humans on how not to be materialstic, materialism has caused wars and genocides, has led to things like racism and systemic inequalities in law and policy, and is responsible for the drastic increase in depression, anxiety, suicide, and overall growth of mental health issues across the world. Given this information, one might think the answer to "should modern society be criticized for being materialist?" is a simple answer. In fact, the answer is certainly a "yes," but we must acknowledge the potential benefits of this seemingly vicious constuct that has permeated through human history and festered into the unstoppable disease that it has become in modern society.

How can something like religion, which across different faiths attempts to squelch materialist tendencies, and materialism lead to so many of the same horrendous outcomes? It is well understood and accepted that relgion has caused many wars, and has severely divided the human race since its inception. Less understood is how matierialism has led to the same  atrocities. Behavioral and cognitive tendencies toward materialism appear to be a part of basic human development. All humans either think and behave in an effort to obtain more "things" and if an individual does not, it is only through years of effort and practice to become someone who does not think this way. Because of these tendencies, no matter how well-intentioned or well-manored a politician may appear to be, wars are started to obtain something. But, the politician doesnt gain "material" items from starting wars, only potential land or resources for the people they govern. So one might argue this is a lofty claim to attribute these behaviors to materialism. At the root of the decision to become a politician was the drive for more wealth and power. Why would one want wealth and power? To gain more access to material things of course. Why might one start a war to gain more resources? To gain the support of those that can provide the politician with more wealth and power. Every action, whether it be to "help" those in need, provide for the country's inhabitants, wirtie new laws, or comitt atrocities such as geneocide stems back to the individual's need for more wealth, whcih in turn leads to greater access to obtain material possessions.

So how can materialism ever be conceived as "good" or beneficial?  As strict behaviorists would point out, human behavior functions mainly to gain access or obtain new things. "Retail therapy" is the colloquialism used to describe the tendency for humans to go shopping when they are feeling negative emotions. Retail therapy is a construct because it actually works. Humans are hard-wired this way. We feel good when we can obtain that piece of artwork we've had our eye on for months, or that new pair of pants that we know are way over-priced but we need anyway. Materialism provides a purpose for all of our suffering at our jobs or for the lifelong student striving to obtain his PhD. Without it, so many of our lives would feel mundane and meaningless. That sticker chart you created for your four-year-old nephew wouldn't work. There would be no motivation for humans to do anything without the potential of obtaining a material object. So, while materialism certainly has led to human suffering, so too would a world devoid of the materialism construct. 

The essay argues not for the theoretical removal of materialism because that would be ineffectual for lessening suffering, but rather for the intentional restructuring of how humans think about and use our materialistic tendencies for our benefits. Materialism, as it functions now leads to poor mental health, war, and other atrocities acrross the world, but it does not have to. If we can harness materialistic tendencies to shape our behaviors -- much like the psychologist does for a toddler with behavioral concerns -- we can actually lessen human suffering and create a more peaceful and meaningful existence for humans across the globe.
