Modern society is very materialistic but is that really as bad as some people think it is. We're going to try to find out. In this life there are a lot of things to feel down about. Working all the the time brings people down, as does relationship issues wether they be with a partner or family. So is it really that bad that people take comfot in material things?

I think not because honestly you have to look at it this way, if you're not hurting someone else I don't think anything you're doing to bring yourself some happiness in this bleak life is bad. Are there better things you could be doing with your time and money? Sure there are but that doesn't mean what you are doing is wrong. If someone wants to buy new stuff all the time and it brings them joy i say more power to them!


The bottom lin here is there are much worse escapes people get into like addiction and drinking. In the grand scheme of things being materialistic isn't that bad. I am not going to judge anyone that is like that and you shouldn't either because at the end of the day aren't we all just trying to find some comfort in this world.

I personally am not very materialistic but i do engage in other habits that people would probably judge. I wouldnt want that so i'm not going to judge others. I also enjoy some material things like new clothes and video games. I totally understand the joy people get out of ordering and owning new things. It was one of the main things that everyone can do. 

So I would urge everyone reading this to not think this is a bad thing in our society. Look at it more like one of the only outlets we still have to bring us some happy moments and joy in these dark times. There does need to me a happy middle ground to it though. Like you should not spend all of your money on stuff you do not need. I try to limit how much i spend on stuff thast isn't a necesttity and i do think everyone should do that to some extent. So in conclusion materialism is good to an extent, I think it can be a positive in most peoples lives and should not be looked down on. 
