Many philosophers have pondered what it truly means to be happy.  Happiness comes in many forms, from the achievement of goals to the aiding of others.  The sense of happiness within yourself is greatly important and how you discover it is equally important.
I am of the belief that happiness comes from within.  Other things cannot give you happiness.  What that means in terms of your personal goals can be tricker than we think.  It should be easy then to know what makes you happy, right?  Something new you own, an experience  you had, a loved one who cares deeply about you are all things that can make you happy but not for long.  What matters is how you feel at the end of every day to put a smile on your face and make you feel content.
Every person is different.  Some people pursue goal after goal to obtain something and then continue to climb higher because that chase for something better is what makes them happy; the challenge and obstacle to overcome.  Others focus on those around them and try to enrich their lives because that altrustic behavior makes them feel better; helping improve society one person at a time.  Others still are content when they obtain a material good or experience and the point is all of these are perfectly acceptable means to be happy.
Some might say there is only one true way to be happy; it's about being the best and showing it off to everyone.  Take a look at the church community who want to make sure their people are taken care of.  They are not rich, they are not in a position of power but they are happy because they are helping those around them.  Others will say material goods mean nothing and why waste your time on money for such frivolous things?  Yet humans are complex and simple all at once.  A shiny piece of metal or plastic can be all that's needed to make someone happy and they want to seek out more of what grants them happiness.
Happiness as a concept is simple on the surface but has more layers than we sometimes give it credit for.  What each person does to find their own happiness may be different and that's okay.  The two things that matters most is that we all find our own happiness and that we don't take away happiness from others.  
