Images and impressions have a major effect on society at large with most people being unaware of its pernicious affects. I'll call these efforts to influence, marketing, and as an average Americans were a bombarded by it all day every single day. Marketing is used to shape our thoughts and behavior to serve powerful interests in both obvious and not so obvious ways, too.

One of the ways that we are marketed to is through politics. All the way from the Iowa caucuses to the swearing in of a new president we are swamped by images and impressions of candidates in ways that just don't match reality, especially after they assume office. Turn on the cable news show of your choosing and we will hear chattering pundits villifying the policies of their political opponents as "this bad or that evil", when in reality the two major parties do not differ all that much on various critical policies. For instance, both side vehemently support war and will spend the country into oblivion to fund a war half way around the world that has nothing to do with Americans. After September 11, 2001 and the subsequent war in Iraq, Democrats and liberals were portrayed as the "anti-war" party on televesion and radio shows and routinely roasted then President George W Bush and VP Cheney for being "hawks", but now as Democrats currently hold the presidency, they have proven themselves to be just as bellicose as their Republican counterparts. Where have all the "Democratic" doves gone? Even Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont is in on the war mongering!

Product manufacturers and service providers also also have a nasty habit of creating impressions via advertisments that have a profound affect on people. How many times have we purchased an item because it was supposed to be "the latest and greatest" only to be disappointed and having to return it? It should be obvious to us all by now that commercials tend to stretch the truth a bit, but year after year Americans get roped into the same ploys. 

All in all, images and impressions have a profound effect on people and we are constantly bombarded by them everyday. However, once we recogize that this is happening and implement strategies to resist these efforts, we can begin to make better choices from who we vote for to what we purchase.

