People achieve more success by cooperation. Although competition seems to be the norm in many aspects of society, the truly best alternative is to work together to achieve greater outcomes. Many arguments and viewpoints are present in this discussion but it should not even be debateable. Success and its accompanying definition are the main components to this discussion. How you measure success will determine your own opinion. 

Many people in society measure success in terms of how much wealth, power, or status they can accumulate. However, I believe it is happiness that is the true measure of success. No matter what we have, we each seek to be happy every day we are alive. We never wake up seeking to be mad or injured or hurt. We want happiness. More than money, power, or respect, happiness is the key to unlocking success. This suggests that the argument for competition is already flawed because it must assume that success is not equal to happiness. If happiness is the ultimate goal, few would argue that working together is the easiet way to achieve that when compared directly with competing. This isn't to suggest that it would always be black and white because there could be a remote scenario where competing would actually produce a greater amount of happiness such as while playing a family board game. Ultimately though, you could still see that at the root, there is still togetherness and cooperation in playing the board game to begin with before the competition part ever comes into play. Even in the institutions such as the pharmaceutical industry or education, pooling resources and working together would appear to be advantageous to competing. I understand the argument for innovation and research being propped up through competition but if we are measuring success for humanity there is little doubt that we would be better off with all the experts working together than working alone. 

For those on the fence concerning this "difficult dilemma," the true measure of success should be the beginning of the discussion. It is a personal question that one must be able to fully answer before proceeding to the second part of the discussion. Ultimately, we must all want to be happy and that is the best measure of success at its core. We achieve greater happiness, and thus, success, through working together rather than through competition.
