Images leave lasting impressions on people, some more than others. They can leave someone happy, excited, sad, or something else entirely. It depends on the image, the person, and their interpretation. Impressions themselves are the main affect of experiencing something for people. If a person feels like they are in agreeance with a single statement or view point of another person or item, sometimes that's all it takes for the person to have a long-lasting impression, which can effect how they view everything else. They say impressions are everything, and they're not wrong, as they can impact and effect people heavily.

There's many different ways to show examples of lasting impressions, or impressional-images being a game-changer for people and their ideals. Sometimes this can cause confusion and concern in others if their viewpoints don't align with theirs, either out of fear or confusion, and wanting to reach some sort of understanding of their rooted impressions. Take for example the people who think Donald Trump was an amazing president. Trump heavily used underhanded phrases and promises to take a lot of America under his wing for his election in 2016, namely "Make America Great Again", a term that unfortunately has negative connotations more-so than non. People flocked in droves under the banner that Trump waved, leaving a lasting impression for those who felt that America wasn't great after Obama, and was a simple, effective way to group together everyone. A non-military, non-giverbnebt experienced person was able to convince America's voters that he should be president, even though Hillary won the popular votes, the people who vote for America's voters united under Trump.

While "Make America Great Again" was great in theory, and it shows by the fact that Trump was ellected president, there's also disillusions when it comes to the impressions and images left by the banner waved. When it came time to certify the election results of 2022, Trump instantly started claiming they were falsified and cheated. His followers under the banner of 'Make America Great Again' agreed, and storm the capital when he made several statements, such as 'We won this election, and we won it by a landslide' which would make any person stop to think, as the current President they loved and supported was claiming wide-spread fraud across the country, that he didn't lose, and that he wouldn't conceede. Other statements such as 'We will stop the steal', 'We will never concede. It doesn't happen', and 'If you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore' could only fuel the fire as the claims of wide-spread fraud and stealing the election claims were made from the day of the results, and to the certification of the results day, leading to the riots and attack the Capitol on January 6th, 2022, as America believed they had a job to do, as supported by Trump to 'Stop the steal'. People argue Trump didn't incite the crowd, but he did. Ignoring the most common argument of 'Peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard', his previous claims of the 'election being stolen' and 'fight like hell or you won't have a country' are clear proof that his words, his actions, left an impression on the people who followed him and supported him, and drove them to commit their heinous actions on January 6th. Some people would say that there's no influence of affect on them and they were just patriotically trying to protect their country. But what exactly were they trying to protect their country from? Democracy? The normal transfer of power from one President to the next? Where was the issue with that? Who said there was an issue to begin with? It was Donald Trump.

The biggest supporting ideal of imaging and impressions leaving too much of an effect on people can be seen in the attack on the Capitol by MAGA supporters on January 6th, 2022. Trump worked his supporters up, made them believe he was telling the truth when he said the election was stolen and that they were about to lose their country if they elected someone other than him. While the semantics of what happened that day can be debated and still are with the commity dedicated to outlining and prosecuting the actions taken place that day, the one thing that can't be debated is that Trump used his last impressions and the image he built of himself around the time he was in office to work and incite people to 'save their country' as if Democracy was in danger. There was never any danger, Trump simply didn't want to lose, and neither did his followers. As history can show, there has been a majority peaceful transfer of power, instead, there was an insurrection to attack the ground our Democracy stands on. Impressions have a last effect on people, as people still believe to this day, even with the election results solidified, that the election was stolen and there was mass-fraud, even though this has since been proven false. While everyone is able to take their own information in, and make their own conclusions, it's clear to see that the toxic effect Trump has had on his voters' is a very prime example of imaging and impressions having too much of an effect of people, with the result being an attack on the Capitol on January 6th.
