Most people beleive that happiness comes to their life by persuing their goals while some others beleive that happiness can come by making others happy. Both of the statements are true to some extent but both of them are not completely true. Happiness differ person to person. We should look that which type of people are more likely to get the happiness.
There are people who get pleasure by doing things that they really love. For example an artist get happiness while drawing picture. Another artist may be there who gets happiness by teaching to the kids how to draw. Here the first one gets happiness by acheiving his own goal the second one gets happiness by making others happy. If we look at some famous people did things for the welness of others and they got great satisfication/happiness when their vision helped other people. Though focusing on personal goals gives happiness it is not permanent.People, who focus on acheiving their personal goal, will strugle to find the true meaning of their life at some point of their life.  Finding happiness by doing things for the improvement of the humanity is the greatest happiness. This happiness last longs and meaningful one. 
In my personal life I get happiness from both type; I get happiness by acheiving my personal goals as well as by doing things that are useful to the society. onething i notice is i get great happiness after acheiving my goals. However, hapiness by doing thing for the socity such as educating people gives me a constant level happiness and provides a meaning for my life. In my view if we focus on happiness and do things the life will be misserable thing but if we understand that our life should be meaningful and do actions without thinking about the outcome; the end result is unlimited happiness.This is what I learned from religions and through my life experiences. Happiness can be acheived by focusing on ones personal growth along with helping others.
In summary, though most of the people think that real happiness comes by focusing and  acheiving their personal goals but in reality people are more likely to get happiness by focusing on the improvement of humanity . 
