Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others? Lets first discuss each topic one by one.

People who focus on their personal goals: Personal goals refers to the goals of an individual like career, marriage, children, house, investment, cars, vacation, world tour etc. Most priority is given to the items listed. When an individual like normal human being set their goals on the following items to achieve within certain time and if he succeeds in the same, he get some sort of happiness. So generally speaking, success leads to personal happiness. It is normal phenomenon of an human being. It is very truly said about success that when achieving the objective with utmost dedication and sincerity, succcess will definitely come to you. So when we achieve success in life we attain happiness. Also people tend to focus on other aspects as they would have achieved the happiness at that point by achieving it for example, I want to become manager in 5 years down the line. After 5 years I would have become manager, I get a lot of happiness however my goal shifts from only becoming manager at that time to Sr. Vice preident after 6 years. So new target is set to achieve so is the happiness gets also potponed for another some time. As the goals change, happiness gets away for that much time. We should be cautious that life is short and should be enjoyed at the fullest. We should be happy in anything that we do rather than run behind goals. Yes, I agree that is important but unless until you are happy, how would that goal get achieved. So  People should focus apart from their personal gaol also to attain happiness.

People who search happiness in the happiness of others: There are lot many people in this world who are born to serve other and they attain happines when other get happy. So it is very simple for them. Make other smile, you smile. They are very selfish kind of people who search happines in the happines of others. In search of this happiness, they travel round the globe to get such happiness. It is embeded in their blood to serve and attain happiness. The secret for these people being happy is to help others. These people are negative free people whose thoughts flow like water flowing in the river. We tend to help people so that they succeed in life if they are struggling not because  we want something from them in return. We give our best to help them and if they attain success about it in their life, we also feel happy becaue we would have brought smile to their face. That is our biggest reward which is non-monetary.Also it has been proved scientifically  that helping others can contribute to our happiness in different ways. So many people attain happiness in the happiness of others.

To conclude the topic: People are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or happiness of others: It can be concluded that it is the behavior of the people  in which they want to attain happines. Some serach happiness from their own doing and others attain happiness in the doing of others or the happiness of others. We can'tr term people selfish who search happiness in their own doing because they ahve the right to do so and even the government can't hold them liable. It is just one's belief how they want happiness.
