Happiness does indeed stem from our pursuit of goals and dreams. It is what gives us purpose and meaning in our lives. We all have dreams and desires for what we want our life to be, and it is achieving these goals that bring what many would deem as success. For many, achieving these goals align with helping others, or they hold the belief that once they find success they will be in a greater position to help others.

Someone who has achieved their goals in life are both more stable in their life position as well as mentally sound. It seems to be the inability to reach their dreams that drive many into despair. Given this, their ability to help others becomes a difficult task as they are weighed down by the distracting nature of feelings of failure. This breakdown in success leaves a person damaged and without happiness of their own they lost the ability to grow happiness in others.

Most of us want to make other people happy and in this we do find happiness and feelings of accomplishment, but without first finding success in one's own life this task becomes all the more difficult. Therefore it is important that we focus on our own dreams and goals first so that we are more capable people with the strength and resources to help others in need or even simply to uplift them in some way.

I have seen good people fall apart due to their inability to help others. They become weighed down by guilt and an overall sense of inadequaticty. If they were able to find the strength to first focus on themselves these outcomes would or could have been different, barring life's random consequences. In this they not only are able to help others find happiness but they are unable to find it themselves. They dissolute and in a sense become inactive in their ability to seek and fulfill goals or dreams of any kind.

Our pursuit of personal goals is the greatest chance we have of making the world a better place for everyone, ourselves and others included. Without first realizing ourselves we are unable to help others in their own pursuit of happiness. it is through the achievment of personal happiness that we are given the strenghth to help others should we so desire to do so. What brings happiness is certainly different for everyone, but if one finds happiness  in the pursuit of other's happiness it is important they first achieve their own personal goals. This is how the world can become a better and happier place for us all.
