Happiness means different things to different people. When one thinks of whwat makes them happy, it could run the gambit between fulfilment of career, one's family, simple pleasure, or the satisfaction of a crossword well completed. The more complex and divisive one's life is, the more difficult it may be to fulfill that need; however, the opposite could also be true in that case, that it is much easier and simple to find fulfillment in a complicated environment. The answer, however, is far from that.

When an individual considers how to find happiness or even some measure of contentment, an often forgotten variable is how long they want that happiness to last. The solution and most satisfactory explanation to this entire issue is reliant on that important requirement. Depsite what it may seem like, people are much more likely to get greater individual immediate satisfaction out of helping others, especially at their own sacrifice. It may seem as though selfishness is a very rewarding pursuit, but selfishness is short lived; selflessness seems the opposite, but it also has a huge downside. Selflessness is only possible, after all, if one can afford to be selfless to begin with. And that, in essence, requires a degree of selfishness. 

Selfishness in this capacity is the ability to survive. Selfishness does not need to be the specific retraction of help from others; quite the opposite in many respects, it may well help spread out that selflessness over a longer period. Despite how bad or unfortunate it may feel to be unable to help, there is no way to help everyone, and when one commits much too far into helping other people, it's moore often than not they find themselves in need of help moreso than ever instead, and that their selfless pursuits, noble and giving as they are, are impossible with nothing left to give. 

So there is no particular need to distinguish between what is more desirable an accomplishment. One feeds into the other. We are selfish so that perhaps we can afford to be selfless without losing that affordability in the future. We are selfless because we know that none of us can truly go it alone our whole lives. When you forget the latter part, then you may well feel selfless, but it's a judgmental, self-justifying selfish bent, that doesn't improve everyone's lives, it only cheapens them to your own desired pleasure. 
