Throughout our daily lives, we are inundated with first impressions of things. We often fail to take the time to process these impressions more deeply; instead, we tend to accept them as they are based on our first opinion about their appearance. However, this emphasis on appearance leads to many negative consequences for people and for society.

Society places far too much focus on attractiveness, often at the expense of other, more important personality traits. People who are seen as more attractive are often treated better and have an easier time getting a job. This causes harmful effects on people who are seen as less attractive, who may face bullying and self-esteem issues. Society's overall emphasis on the importance of being attractive may lead them to take drastic steps to try to improve their appearance, such as undergoing a risky plastic surgery operation or even developing an eating disorder from trying to lose weight to fit the standard "acceptable" body type. They may also suffer from self-esteem and body dysmorphia issues. On the flip side, the pressure placed on attractive people to maintain their looks an also affect them negatively. They become solely an object for others to admire, while people may overlook their other characteristics. Thus, they become valuable not through their own merit, but through their ability to satisfy others' desire for beauty. 

While people's overemphasis on attractiveness is harmful, the effect of images and appearance play far too large of a role in advertising as well. Oftentimes, the way a product is advertised can manipulate people into feeling or acting a certain way. The use of color in advertisements is designed to induce emotion in people and influence their desires. For example, McDonald's use of red and yellow in their logo induces hunger in people, who may then suddenly think that they are hungry and would like to purchase some McDonalds. Color, as well as layout and design, can be used as successful and ruthless marketing tactics. Humans are very visual creatures, and designing an advertisement with the perfect layout, font, colors, and design can instantly captivate its target audience and boost sales exponentially. The booming marketing and advertisement industry is a testament to the importance of appearances and impressions on people's decision making. However, the products being advertised may not always live up to their appearances. It is crucial to carefully consider the advertisements we see and ask ourselves whether it is something we truly need or whether our eyes and minds are playing tricks on us again. 

Overall, humans are very susceptible to images and impressions, and we often find ourselves strongly influenced by them. While this may sometimes be beneficial, it often creates negative consequences as well. It may lead us to judge others solely on appearance, neglecting their other personality traits that give them value as a person, or make purchase decisions on a whim that we later regret. We must recognize the effect that images and impressions have on us and make an effort to be more aware of our own responses to them. Only then can we pull the veil from our eyes and make strides toward seeing things for what they really are. 
