    Materialism. There are so many mixed thoughts on this subject. Some people are driven in life to acquire more and more material possessions. Others despise having a lot of items, prefering to live a minimalist lifestyle and live on just the basics. The question is should modern society be criticized for being materialistic. We'll look at both sides.
    There are some good things about having material possessions. A lot of people feel accomplished and blessed having lots of possessions. It gives some people happiness knowing they have a lot of things they can easily access like televisions, cars, clothes, etc. Those who come from humble beginnings who are later able to acquire these possessions may feel like they have a piece of what they wish they had when they were growing up. They feel like they are successful knowing they worked for these possessions.
     The other side is the downfall of being materialistic. Unfortunately, there are people out there who are very selfish and will acquire a lot of possessions and purposely keep everything for themselves. Being materialistic can foster a stingy and selfish mindset. Some people will step on others to get the possessions. Also being materialistic can cause people to look down on others who don't have the possessions that they have. 
    There can be good or bad on both sides. There are ways to be materialistic and not selfish. Those who have a lot of possessions can donate to those who don't have much or who don't have anything at all. It can give a sense of accomplishment and being helpful if you give to others. Criticizing won't necessarily help in the area of materialistic people but it would be beneficial to show people that it is okay to have things but not be selfish. They can be shown that they can be generous while still keeping a lot of possessions. Those who can easily attain possessions can even show others how to do it as well in a way to help those who don't know how to do it for themselves. In conclusion, materialism doesn't necessarily have to be a bad thing. It can be used for good if the person wants.
