I feel like every couple years our society changes, the clothing style, home decor style, and even how we interact. I feel that this society focusing highly on what we own, the cars we drive, the clothes we wear. It isn't even about how much money people make, what career people have or even what school someone went to. 

This society is about brands, possessions and fitting in. No one wants to be without what is trending, and what all the top influensters are having and talking about. Everyone wants to have the top material items and will pay whatever it takes to get it. 

I believe that a lot of people use the items that they purchase help aid in validating how much of a person they are. In todays society so many people just judge based off of what people where or have, if it is in the know or if it is something that all the influensters are using and wanting. I think that people should not be judged based off of the things that they are wanting to purchase. If it making someone happy and not hurting anyone else in the process it should not matter to anyone else. 

I think that we live in a society where everyone feels intitled, so many people feel that they can say or treat people how ever they please. I feel that instead of being there for someone who is using shopping as a coping mechanisim, most people rather pass judgement and critize them for over consuming in material items. There are so many people who like to control others with how they spend their money, money that they have earned. I think that a lot of this stems from jealousy as well, other people want to purchase items and get envious when others are spending money on whatever they want. 

I feel that if people stop focusing on what others are doing and what others own, that we would all be happier, everyone has a good life and money doesn't define who you are as a person. We as a society need to start focusing on what is in the inside and being happy for people and their accomplishments, big or small. If it makes someone happy to be materialistic than we should not care. We are unable to control or validate others happiness. 

Another way to look at it is that if others purchase a lot of items it could be that they are now able to purchase items that at one point in their life they were unable, now that they are doing better in life and have more free money, they would like to buy stuff they want. Some people grew up without any material items and now want to be able to have material possessions. 

I feel that with social media like YouTube, Instagram and TikTok, people like to "show off" their possessions and this makes others feel that they need those items too. We live in a different time than before social media. I think that social media has caused society to be more critical and judgemental. I also think that it has caused people to be more insicure with the items that they own vs the items that they see everyone else with. Modern society has the urge to fit in, the urge to be popular, the urge to want to spend and show others what they have as well. So many people need to not only purchase in modern society but also make sure that everyone else sees the "haul" as well. If it is not in the know then they don't want it. 

We as a society need to realize that times have changed and that is okay, we just can't lose ourselves and forget who we are. We need to always remain our true self. Purchasing items is okay and can be healthy and boost seratonin levels. It makes you feel good to buy new clothes, new home decor and new self care items. What makes people sad and have the desire to keep purchasing is the desire to fit in. The desire to want to have what everyone else has.  It can be a toxic cycle. 

I myself am more of a minimalist, even though my toxic trait is to shop online and fill my cart with items that I have no intention to purchase, it is just a satisfactoin of "screen shopping". The idea of buying all of these useless items and over spending on things that I do not need, or sometimes even really want.  So to end my thoughts I do not feel that anyone should judged or critized for being materialistic. 
