How people get more success by cooperation rather than competition?

 Most CEO may have, at least once, thought about how to make the company make more progress. Some would bring an envirment where emplyees need to have competion with collegues to survive or to be promoted faster than others. However, some CEO may make a cooperative envirment to make the employee find synergy from many brains. Which way would be the winner?

I earnestly do not like an envirment where competion is. Company means working together. However, if CEO demand employees compete eachother by claiming that winners will get better salary and losers will lose their benefit, how could this company be a good company after all?  

Well, it seems to be fair to treat people by their performance. So losers will leave the company and only the winners are leftover. Eventually, this company may be with only the winners with great performance. Then is this company the best company at the end?

However, if there is a gain, there is a loss too. One thing that we can easiely forget is that competion can make people to cheat. One of possible situation is that one emplyee can intentionally oppose or ruin others great idea of business to win the competion. We can call this 'political behavior' in the workplace. Other possible problem is that some emplyee can follow the CEO's mind or his personal interest instead of company's interest. Once emplyee feels that the competion or the game is not fairly judged, they will lose their interest and respect of collegues. Eventually, the company will be directed to a wrong place.

In this respect, cooperation would win in the long run. If a employee is a part of a team, and the team's acheivement is fairly rewarded, they will work harder to achieve team's goal and enjoy the success together.

Let's not forget about your inferior colleage's effort to help the team's goal. If there was not his effort, there is no completion of the project. If you do, others will respect yours. This respectful culture can drive the company's outcome trimendoulsly!
 
