   Happiness is a state of being that every human seeks. No one wants to be unhappy. People seek happiness in various ways. Some seek happiness through focusing on themselves and their own needs and desires, while seeing the desires and needs of others as something of secondary importance. Others seek happiness through helping others to be happy. The reality is that happiness is largely to be found in helping others.
   In my own experience, I've found that if I focus solely on satisfying my own wants and needs, as a natural result, I fail to help others around me as I should. That failure leads me to become isolated from others. They see me as an undesirable person to be around. Then left alone, I feel something is missing inside -- the need for positive social connections. Similarly, when I experience hardships and focus only on them (and thus, myself), they only grow larger in my mind and thus my experience.
   On the other hand, when I seek to lift and help others, I feel good as I see them happy, and as a natural result, they are more inclined to be around me and positively interact with me. As I help others, I enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that I have helped them with their needs. I feel that I am a useful and necessary part of the world when I help others to be happy and comfortable. Also, when I experience hardships, as difficult as it may be, if I find ways to help others, my anxiety about my own problems fades, leading me to experience more true happiness myself.
   Many argue that it is important to satisfy one's own needs in order to be happy. Some people say that "you can't fill another's bucket if yours is empty." There is some truth to that thinking. It is important to take care of one's self, to a point; but, I am convinced, based on my own experiences, that happiness is more likely to be obtained when most of our focus is on helping others. Often, when people assert that they are engaging in "self-care" they may soon find that their happiness is diminished over time. It is easy to become wrapped up in oneself and then lose opportunities to help or otherwise positively interact with those around them. When those opportunities are lost, sadness and other negative emotions naturally follow.
   Hence, the largest and truest source of happiness is seeking the happiness of others. My most cherished social connections have come into being and grown from moments when I thought about others before myself. Those satisfying interactions have led me to feel so much more happiness than I could ever find or feel on my own. Lifting the burdens, comforting the sadness, helping heal the hurts of others tends to come back to a person. Bringing joy, giving encouragement and inspiration to others naturally leads to joy in one's self. Seeking the happiness of others is actually the key to finding happiness for one's self!
