     The human brain has a remarkable function and while we like to think that our brains can discern between impressions and reality, this is not always the case. The modern world has taken advantage of how the human brain works and strategic marketing is used against us. Images of celebrities give people, especially females, false depictions of beauty. Product advertisements show off items that are too good to be true. This is because images and impressions have a strong effect on people and tend to be mistaken for reality which can lead to disappointment. 

     Images and impressions have such a strong effect on people and one of the ways that that is clear is through social media. Apps like Instagram showcase a false reality of celebrities' lives which can make users of the app feel unaccomplished and disappointed with their lives. Users go through hundreds of posts a day and naturally, they may compare their basic lives to the false lives being portrayed on social media which can lead to again, disappointment. Advertisements for food, technology, vacations, etc. also lead users and consumers to raise their expectations for products which leads to disappoinment when reality hits. An example is fast food. Fast food is depicted as a cheap but super tasty and delicious option. Photos of burgers and ice cream shower the streets and are all over ads on our phones. The reality is that most fast food is old and gross and not like the images we see around us. 
     Some may argue that people can process these images and can make conscious decisions on what is and isn't reality. However, if this were the case, people would not be so disappointed with the outcome of images and impressions around them. The reality is, individuals can only filter out so much before their surroundings begin turning into reality. When social media is used every day and photo after photo of perfectly edited celebrities are shown, users begin to believe that the beauty standards of those images are the reality. This is where things like eating disorders and lack of confidence can develop and is why these problems are so prevalant in our society. 
     As technology develops and humans resort more and more to relying on their phones and other devices for entertainment and work, the more disappointment humans feel as a result. Technology bombards us with images and impressions that the brain cannot usually differentiate between them and reality. The confusion and false expectations result in disappointment and dissatisfaction with one's life.



