Today in society a lot of people focus on money. How much money you make, how much money you have, how much money you spend, they all lead back to one thing, materialism. Everyone is critical of how materialistic people are. The population is pretty divided. So we must ask the question, of whether or not its acceptable to be so critical of people that are materialistic. As a society, we shouldn't judge others for being materialistic because they have the right to live their own life the way they see fit, many have worked for the right to own possessions, and it makes people happy.

Foremost, as a society, most people get up almost everyday and do some type of work. Whether it be a job that requires you to go out and make money or whether it be a stay-at-home parent that doesn't make many. At some point in our lives all of us have worked at something. Work is hard, it takes energy and it normally takes skill. We go to work everyday just to keep food on the table and a roof over our heads. We have to work to survive. This causes stress to the average person because when youre working so hard everyday and you can't get anything that you want it gets depressing. We should be able to spend the money not used on bills and necessities they way that we want to. We worked for it so we shouldn't be judged for wanting to have possesions that we enjoy.

Furthermore, possesions and material things can make people happy. Material things can be used to create experiences with people. Something like a video game console can seem extremely materialistic but if you have more than one controller it could be used with family or friends as bonding time. Other things can be used for self-happiness, such as bath products or collecting an enjoyed item. These material possessions evoke happiness and good emotions. It is also good to have an abundance of items in case of emergency. Your way of life could change drastically in a single day. If you have an emergency which causes you to lose your job or become living from paycheck to paychek, it may be hard to just go out and buy something if you need it. If you already have a lot of items the chance that you will have to go buy something is lowered. You would more than likely already have it in your house. It's good to be prepared in case of emergencies.

Finally, it comes down to being judgemental. Some may think that peoples money should be spent on experiences or vacations or non-tangible things. I see where there is some argument but we have no right to criticize how others are living their lives if it isn't harming anyone. You may have an opinion but it isn't right to criticize. We only have one chance on this Earth. We only get one life to live and instead of trying to judge how others spend their money or spend their time, focus on yourself and your own wants and needs. The only person you can change or control is yourself. If you're actively looking for something to judge people on then there is something wrong going on in your life. You may have your own problems or issues that you need to work on yourself. Others being materialistic has no impact on you. Focus on what directly affects your own life.

Taking everything into account, the materialism of modern society is not a problem. If you aren't harming others or yourself with your materialism then theres no reason to be criticized for how you choose to live your life. If your material possesion provide you happiness and make your life easier then you should be able to do as you please. Insteasd of criticizing others materialism we should focus on more pressing issues. Everyone has wants and needs, and if they're being carried out in a way that isn't harmful there is nothing left to criticize.
