In our modern society, it's a simple fact that people love stuff. Stuff is everywhere: it fills up stores, warehouses, our homes, and even spills out into our yards, garage, cars, and storage units. It seems we can't get enough stuff to satisfy our desires. We all know the familiar dopamine rush you get when buying a new phone, article of clothing, or kitchen gadget. But has it gone too far? We work long hours all day, just to go home and spend our hard-earned money on things we don't really need. The exhaustion we get from our day job fuels the need to relax and unwind by mindlessly scrolling Amazon for fun little trinkets. It's a vicious and depressing cycle, and for some, it can even be an addiction.

Modern society should absolutely be criticized for our extreme focus on materialism. We are all encouraged to "BUY, BUY, BUY!" every waking hour of every day. We are bombarded with advertisements and psychological tricks to get us to purchase things we do not need. Our mental wellbeing is suffering. We fill our homes because we are missing something in our life. I've known too many people whose homes are filled to the brim with clutter, and they all have something in common: mental turmoil and trauma. Some of these people, I am very close with. Whenever I go to their house, without fail, they will have 2-4 new boxes of stuff from Amazon that arrived that day. This is a daily occurence. Their home gets slowly filled and they create a material coccoon of stuff in order to shield themselves from their own inner demons. I know this struggle all too well, as I used to be be in the same boat. People in our modern society are never satisfied because you cannot be satisfied with things. You must find satisfaction and peace within yourself. Only then can you give up external obsessions: addictions, material objects, social media, etc.

The sad thing is that materialism, as I said before, is a cycle. You buy and buy to fill a void, but the void cannot be filled with things. So after the initial rush, the dopamine wears off and you feel bad about yourself for buying useless junk, so you buy more. All the while, the environment is being polluted and destroyed, people are bing abused and mistreated for their labor, landfills are being filled to the brim, and we are all becoming more and more despondent. Studies have proven that you are not made happier with more things; in fact, it has been shown thathaving excessive objects in your home will make you more depressed and less cognitively strong.

Some might claim that this over-consumption of our society is a good thing as it fuels the economy. But where does it stop? I believe the economy argument is thoughtless. You may be "fueling" the economy by purchasing endless truckloads of fast-fashion clothing and gadgets that will ultimately end up unused, but this economy argument ignores the negatives that come along with it. First of all, where was all this stuff produced - in a third world country where labor standards are abysmal and workers are mistreated? How was it produced? Is it made with harmful materials that damage the environment? Where will it end up when you're bored with it? Will it sit in your house and clutter up the place, resulting in a lower quality of life and worse mental health for yourself? Will it be added to the plethora of landfills and pollute our environment for generations? A small boost to the economy does not seem worth it when you factor in these things and more.

Though I do not necessarily blame the individual people in society for their materialism (we are all socially and systemically conditioned to think over-consumption is okay, or even a good thing), we all have a part to play in it nevertheless. It will take the efforts of all of us to undo this problem and help spare our planet, and our minds, from overconsumption and excessive materialism. When you take a step back from materialism, and focus on a simple, minimalist lifestyle, your mind is free to enjoy life again, without the constant seeking of a dopamine rush in the form of purchases. I am reminded of a wonderful quote that goes something like this: "The best things in life aren't things. Fill your life with experiences, not stuff. Experiences are what you will remember."
