I believe that happiness comes from an individual being able to persue their own personal goals. When someone is actually able to focus on themself, they are able to improve their own happiness. Solely focusing on others means that you have to leave yourself behind. When you cannot focus on yourself, you lose your happiness and ability to thrive. 

I grew up in a culture where you always put yourself last. The order of your life was first your religion, then others, and last yourself. You were ranked at the bottom of the list in importance. I was the most depressed I have ever been while I was in this culture. Now, in retrospect, I can see why. This "others first" type of thinking will entirely disregard you as an individual. I had no sense of self, and had no clue what made me happy. When someone is allowed to explore their own likes and desires, they are able to find the things that make them happy. When that is stifled by having to focus on others, they crumble from the inside.

Once I was able to leave this culture, I began exploring my own goals and happiness. Since I have been free to focus on my own happiness I am less depressed, and have aspirations for my own life. I also now feel like I have the freedom to focus on humanity as well. I have been taught the phrase "you cannot love others until you love yourself" and I believe that happiness works the same way. You cannot focus on improving the happiness and wellbeing of others until your own happiness is satisfied first. 

Some people may believe that people cannot be happy if those around them are unhappy. I disagree with this entirely. Your happiness is 100% up to you. You choose to let others influence your life, or to not let other peoples mood influence you. I believe that someone who is truly happy and satisfied with their life can be a light to others who are unhappy. This happy person has the ability to influence others for the better. If someone is unhappy, how can they be a model for helping others to be happy? In my opinion, they can't.

Focusing on your self, investing in your self, and working toward your own personal goals will ensure your happiness. Putting others' happiness first might seem like a charitable way of living, but it is not sustainable. You lose yourself in living that way, and in losing yourself you cannot function. You have to know what happiness towards yourself feels like first before you can experience happiness from others.
