As we all know, despite the fact that most people look down on materialism, the truth is that just about everyone performs the trait to one degree or another.  So, does this mean it is something that is inate in us and should not be frowned upon?  Well, I beleive it is and it will lead us to disasterous consequences.
Yes, the aquiring of things is something that is programmed into us for the survivial of each of us and the species, we aquire, or at least we did, to survive.  But this is a left over trait from our distant past.  The trouble is that now we quire things we don't need, or even want, when we get down to it.  This may not seem like a problem, and it is what makes the world go around, but we are doing great harm to our planet.
Nearly every consumer item comes with its own harm to the planet, whether it is the plastic it is made from, the metals that go into it, or the energy to construt it.  These each have a detrimental efect on our planet, the burning of hydro carbons, the pollution from mining of the metals, or the green house gasses emitted from energy production.
We may tell ourselves we are green and environmentally concerned, but every time me buy that new thing, fast fashion, modern tech, fashionable furniture or new vehicle, we are making our own little dent in the health of the world.  Materialism is bad for the world we live on, and if we don't amend our way the future looks bleak.  
I know it is pie in the sky to say to every one, stop buying, as it would lead to servere consquences in the near term, but we have to start thinking to ourselves whether we need all that we have bought and placed around us.  Each purchase should be considered and judged in terms of its need to us and the harm it could, or may have already have caused.  There is a happy middle, where commerce can carry on, and we can buy the things we need.  However, right now, our material world is one that is not sustainable, and furture generations will look back on us with digust at how frivolous we were.  They will look at the moutains of discarded consumerables and wonder why we purchased them.
Materalism is a sin, and sins have consequences.  Some will doubt the coming ecolocial disaster, but those that knw the facts and science can see it all too plainly.  Materialism is the root cuase, so it should not be justified, excused or forgiven.
