Modern society is a consumer society. People love to buy and display the products they consume. It is, however, important to consider the impact that consumerism in the form of materialism has on our culture. As with any behavior, materialism deserves a form of criticism in our current society.

Ask yourself, what is your favorite possession? You likely have one. You probably display it where visitors to your home can comment about it, possibly even admire you for it. You might even have pride in many objects you have collected. Would you consider yourself to be materialistic? The word has a negative stigma. Materialistic. Most of us associate the word with high-maitenance or being shallow. Yet the fact remains that that almost everyone knows someone who's home is filled with possessions and a rare few are embarrassed because of it. America is a consumerist society. Marketing and advertisement companies have furtunes built from it, and it's not because it DOESN'T work. People love their possessions, but is there such a thing as identifying too much with your things? I agrue that, yes, it may be a problem that deserves a critical eye.

It can be quite easy to not self-reflect or realize how much our identity may stem from our possessions and our ability to consume. Objects hold sentimental value. They get passed on from generation to generation. They can be status symbols. But that is also the crux of materialism: they can consume us. When happiness and purpose begin to only stem from the objects you own, an intervention may be needed. 

Of course, there is nothing wrong with materialism, per se. We need particular and often expensive items to be a successful and functional member of society. "I met my best friends through the collection/fan club/similar appreciation for x." Our lives are often centered around the mutual appreciation for owning certain things. Status association for materialism is a cultural phenomenon that has not waned and is often celebrated.

But do your objects own you? When your identity is lost in your possessions, that is the meaningful divide between happiness through ownership and ownership through happiness. Are you wondering if this applies to you? Are you confident that this is not you? Ask yourself: if I were to lose all my possessions tomorrow, would that change who I am? Would you have an identity crisis? If the answer is yes or maybe, then take a step back to reflect on why you let objects speak for who you are. You are fully capable of doing that yourself. 
