        In toadys highly competitive world, is there a place for cooperation? Or is outright competition the only means by which to advance forward?
        Many fields today are simply too complex for a single individual to accomplish anything. While in the past it may have been possible for individuals to make major discoveries, or to achieve a high degree of individual produciton, todays heavily mechanized and industrialized world is at a level of compleity where no one person can compete.
        For example the design of modern computing hardware requires numerous specialities with a level of deep, specific knowledge in each domain. While a CPU architect may have the requisite knowledge to design the overall layout of a CPU, they will have no real idea how to tape out the chip for production. And those at the foundry that do the tapeout will lack the expertice in chemistry to actually produce the ingots and chemical solutions that they require to produce said chip. This is simply a by-product of the overwhelming complexity of modern computers, which has far eclipse the amount of knowledge any one individual can learn, let alone recall. 
        These highly compley systems can only be done through a colaborative effort with many individuals who have mastered high specilized tasks. Competition in such areas does exist, but only in the sense of a few large organizations competiting with each other. Individual competition is simply impossible with such large scale problems.
        Nearly all of the major technological innovations of the 20th century were the result of large scale cooperation. Even flight, which is often attributed to lone work of the Wright brothers, was based on a significant amount of aerodynamic research that had been conducted by dozens of individuals for nearly 100 years prior to their first flight. And the engine that their aircraft relied upon, while built by the Wrights, was essentially a copy of many successful features of other piston engines. Every other major industry of the past couple of centuries has similar stories, a few individuals get most of the credit while in reality, most of the work was done by hundreds or even thousands of people.
        Of course such collaborative efforts do not make sense for every field. Highly creative endeavours are usually done best by individuals. Art created by comittee is often dull and uninspired. For such things there is still a clear benefit to competition between individuals, but such works do not require a high degree of specilization across domains. And even in these cases where one person can be the lead of an artistic project, if it is a large one it will still require a team to complete, like with films, fashion or music. Even in cases of single painter, they are still reliant on someone else producting the canvas and yet another person producing the paint, and yet another manufacturing the brushes.
        The highly competetive world we find ourselves in today is one that not only rewards, but often requires cooperation in order for things to get done. Few tasks today are doable by single people, and those that are tend to be of minor importance. Cooperation is not only the way modern, difficult problems are solved, its the only way they can be fixed.
