Are diamonds really a girl's best friend? When Madonna released her single "Material Girl" in the 1980's, both the lyrics and visual representation of this topic represented the idea that the one with the most things wins. In modern times, the upward ability for people to make money has directly influenced the feeling by many people that if I have the money, I should buy what I want. Material objects have, thus, become more important to many people than the idea that happiness can be found with more human pursuits, such as spending time with family and friends. Cars, furniture, the latest fashion trend...all at the top of the list. As we headed into the millenium, and especially, the last few years, social media outlets such as TikTok, Instagram, and Twitter, have just given people the latest fad for every given moment. The newest phone comes out...I have to get it because I saw it post last night. The idea that I must have the latest and greatest new thing has become more and more of a challenge in this age of immediate gratification. 

On the other hand, there are those who actively try to live their life without being materialistic. Some people actually keep their phones more than one year or pay off their car and keep it even after the warranty runs out. Even Bill Gates, for example, donates millions to charity every year. On a much more realistic level, there are those who have taken a more Depression Era approach. In this case, the mantra is that if I have extra money in a given month, I put it into savings for a rainy day. If something is broken, fix it. New is not necessarily better. What's the use in having a brand new couch, just because my old one got dirty? I can just have it cleaned. For those people that are less materialistic by choice, there is much more time to simply take a walk with a friend, read a book, enjoy the sunset, rather than pursue the next best thing. This allows for a much simpler and peaceful existence on this Earth.

In the end, modern society will be criticized for being materialistic. There will be those that say, "If I have the money, who are you to say I can't buy what I want?" However, in my opinion, who will be happier? I believe that those who take the time to enjoy their family and friends, and simply take the time to be grateful will be the one's who are most content with their life. Give yourself a chance to just breathe and enjoy the life around you. Take a hike, listen to an old record. All of these things remind me of something that my grandmother told me many years ago, and that was to just enjoy. Someone always has it worse than you. There is nothing that you could buy to make things any better than it is now. Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? Maybe. But as with everything, to each his own. 
