I believe happiness can best be found by focusing on others. Humans are inherently social creatures and we crave the approval and companionship of other human beings. Often the happiest people are those that have the most friends and those who get along with others the easiest. This means that focusing only on your own selfish goals is not as surefire a way toward happiness as it might seem. It's easy, of course, to get caught up in your own goals--to look only inward for hapiness. There's an old cliche about everyone being the hero of their own story. Like many cliches, it has quite a bit of truth to it. It's easy to get caught up in our own life, thinking of ourselves as the hero out to defeat the villain. It's easy to think that you're the only one who matters, that somehow you're more real than those around you.

The truth, though, is that we aren't heros in a grand story. No individual is inherently more important than any other. No one is the hero and no one is the viallain, at least not at the start of things. If you throw out that idea and focus on the people around you not as supporting characters, but instead as real people you find a world rich and vibrant. It's a world that isn't about YOU, but instead a world about everyone. In that world, hapiness isn't found by defeating your personal villains. Happiness is found in the act of reaching out to those around you and helping them to reach thier goals.

One of the things I realized when I started to take writing classes, is that editing your own work is really, really hard. You can spend nights slaving over something you've written, trying to wrestle it into a shape that will please a teacher and please the class, only to look at it in the end and feel that you haven't accomplished anything at all. We are all our worst critics. On the other hand, it's much easier to look at the work of others and it's much more satisfying to provide advice to someone else than it is to try and understand your own work. When I look at my work, it's never a process that leaves me happier. Helping another writer though always leaves me with a sense of satisfaction.

I think this lesson can apply to most things in life. When we judge ourselves and our progress toward our goals we will always be less happy than if we help others along the ways to their goals.

But it's more than just helping other people, it's also about what we can find out about ourselves in the process. If you only ever focus on your own goals and the things that matter to you, you'll miss out on all the knowledge and insight that can be gained by looking at someone else and figuring out what they need to be successful and happy. When I would help other writers with their stories, I would also learn something about the process of writing that I could apply to my own writing. I don't mean to imply that you should only help other people to help yourself, as I think your motives would taint the act. Instead, I want to convey that there is a deep power in helping someone else--truly helping them.

Maybe I'm making it to abstract, but if you really think about it I don't think it's even a contest. Just ask a simple question; who is happier? Is a stock broker who has worked their way up the corporate ladder happier than someone who works for a charity helping homeless kids? Maybe they're more comfortable. Maybe they lead an easier life. Maybe they even THINK they are happier. But can you really look at those two people and believe for one minute that the stock broker is actually more happy? Well, maybe you can. Maybe that person helping the homeless kids feels a deep hopelessness with the world, a world that allows kids to become homeless, and maybe it's hard to say that they're happy because of that. And maybe the stock broker doesn't feel hopeless at all, they feel in control of the world. Is that hapiness?

Maybe, maybe it is. The more I think about this the more I think that the whole problem here is this idea of happiness. Our entire society is obsessed with it. We treat it like a finite resource to be prized above even money. But I think this question should be about more than this thing we call hapiness, it should be about what lies underneath it. We're a very small world in a very large, cold, mostly empty universe. At the end of the day I think happiness for many people is the thing we try to use to cover up that fact. We want to wallpaper over the rotting wall and the dark cold empty spaces of our lives.

So here's where I make my case. The stock broker may have the fanciest wall paper, gilded and sparkling, but they have nothing underneath it. All it takes is a single tear in the wallpaper, a single dip in the stock market, a raise of interest rates, a corporate scandal. After that all they have left is the rotting interior. The person who helps the homeless may be more tired, more worn down--and they may have no wallpaper at all, just a window into the universe. They see all that dark cold emptiness and they make a choice and that choice is not to give up, not to cover the darkness, not to hide. Their choice is to do what they can with the time they've been given to help others.

And in making that choice they are truly more happy than the person who makes the choice only to help themselves.
