Everywhere you look there are deceiving pictures, advertisements, information, etc. Nothing can be taken at face value these days. Companies, politicians, public figures, all use the notion that if you make something attractive, essentially putting some shine on it, then people will be convinced that the shiny coating is exactly what is on the inside of the package or what a person stands for. They are just trying to get naive people to fall for their scam. 

Some prime examples of this include products that have colorful packages with a cute animal or an attractive person selling that product. You can see this in a wide variety of forms, on a box of cereal, on a health food that probably doesn't taste very good, on alcohol or cigarettes to attract younger people to the product. The packaging changes based on the target audience. If it's targe audience is children, then the bright colors and cute animals or characters will be used to have children beg their parents for their product. 

This can also be done by those in politics. They will say what they think the voters want to hear in hopes that the voters will be convinced they are the best option for the position they are running for. They will say they will focus on certain causes because those are the causes the people want to see focused on. Some who don't believe this happens may say this because they don't want to be looked at as being dumb or unintelligent for blindly following someone who simply says what they think others want to hear. An example of this happening is with the MAGA Republicans. They blindly follow a man who had no political experience prior to running for president. He has been accused of multiple sexual assaults, including minors, he's cheated on every wife he's ever had. The list goes on and on. But this doesn't matter to his cult following. He only cares about himself but proclaims he cares about the people when it has been proven time and time again that he doesn't care about the poeple at all. He even stated that he could shoot someone in the middle of the street and get away with it, and clearly he would with his followers. But his cult followers follow everything he says without even bothering to do any research. The will defend him regardless of the evidence brought against him. Being critical against one with for no reason and not being critical against another is hypocritical. 

The lesson to be learned here is that you can't always believe what's on the surface is the same that is within. Anything can be wrapped with a pretty bow, but you can't make something bad become something good with a little decoration. Don't always believe what you see. Do your research. Be curious. Don't support someone or put your recommendation behind a product or candidate or anything else without you knowing exactly what you are recommending. Know what you are supporting. 
