 The things people buy not including shoes that are luxurious, the sparkling towels for the beach, the lovely modeled pink car for seating five for the theaters. It is no accident the desire for such things. How does one muster the idea for such a purchase? Does one wake up in the morning just to rush to the store? Why is materal so important? Deep in modern society lies the answer, and should be noted what becomes of it. The result may very well lead to rapid shopping also known as impulsive buying. 

 Whether it is shopping online on Amazon, or, walking into the shoe store at the local mall, such fabric material is sought after for appearance. The appearance has a positive outlook on the buyer. The buyer completes the purchase, with the end result being the buying looking good at the time of purchase. Another example of this is with the graphic teeshirts. Such material has multiple messages right on front. Of course, that does not always make the purchase, but, the graphics are part of the influence. 

 Now, consumers are lead to believe it is always social media the is culprit of impulse buying.  Celebrity influence is popular therefore when one wears a wonderful looking shirt, therefore, the consumer needs to have that very shirt right now. It must be the case as this kind of influence is so strong, it is the only one. The disagreement lies in the history of how consumers actually seek out material, even when its criticized. Family, friends, and other forms of media such as flyers, influence those in modern society to this day to complete a purchase. This includes coupons, therefore enhancing one's disagreement, because when other influential aspects help the purchasing of sparkling shoes, social media cannot possibly be the only influential aspect that enables the consumer to complete a purchase. 

In conclusion, while consumers are influenced quite often to be materalistic with shopping increasing so rapidly even when times are tough, consumers impluse buying for the sake of  appearance, one thing is clear. It is unfair to make such criticism at modern society for seeking to be so materalistic, even though the frequency of shopping is found to be slightly redundant. It should be noted instead, seen as factor of the positive things lying ahead.

