I believe that modern society should in fact be critized for being materialistic. I believe this is the case because it has evolved for years with the introduction of modern media.

For years media has played a key role in society being materialistic.  This all started with print media.  IN the early days newspapers that contianed advertisements would capture the attention of consumers and this lead to the eraly wants.  House wives especially would read these ads and think about how thier lives would be easier with certain products like a washing machine or dishwasher.  With the introduction of television, the want became more intecse .  Seeing these ads on tv and being able to see what the item looks like and watch someone actually use it and how happy they look would result in consumer want.  Fast forward to to the internet age when consumers could noe go on a search engine and look up various items or enter words about things that they needed and up pops a list of items.  Moving to present age, we now have various social media outlets where we now see people that we know using certain products, makinf big purchases and visiting new places.  All of this makes consumers feel like they need that comfy pair of pants or they need to install a pool or go away to Europ because look at cousin Jenny and her family having a ball.  Tik Tok is one that really pushes materialistic persuassion.  You essentally wach someonr demaonstrate a product and you get excited. I recently viewed a tik Tok for a skin care product and pants that supposedly feel like ypfga pabnts and i was hooked and started looking up the prices.
  In summary , our worl that we live in has evelved into a materialistic sociaety that started way back whrn with newspapers and magazines then came tv ads and shows that gave us the visial and now here we are smack dab in the midle of a soicla media mne filed that makes us feel like we simply do not have enough of what we need thuas making out lives 100% materalistic. I should ad that we spend outr days with it in our faces and it is really hard to run.  I oftern worry about the next generation that have groen up in a materalistic life.  Wehn i look back at my chilhood we could just live out lives and be free and independant.  I think we all often times feel completely smuggled by trying to keep up with te JOneses times 100.  What can we do to change this?  I ask mysekf that all the time and I want to take break from it but there ids the fear that we might miss out on something imporatant.  What will it take to pull us down from this materalistic trance.  Your guess is as good as mine.It just blows mind to think what could happen to this world. It is a shame that our kids will constantly want more and more stuff due to to social media and commercials.  Just the other day Nikalodean was advertising for various toys almost like it was on repeat during a popular kids show.  If our kids can't even watch tv to unwind and materilistice items are in thier face.  Everyday we are faced with the need to spend money and everything has gone up in price which is not helpful.  There is so much that can be said about this topic. It is an endless barrell of things that we do not need.If maybe there was a way to shut down then we could all just enjoy our lives peacefully.. I believe that anxiety plays a role as a reult of materialistic ways.  If we are alwys concerned with the need to but then our minds cannot shut down. I think that material needs will simply never go away and we will contunue to need more and more . It will defintly keep the junk industry in business as we also find orselves constantly throwinng all of these material items away to make way for more.  My conclusion is 
