Throughout history we see that many philosophies and religions have addressed the problem of an individual's happiness. Hedonists tells us that the path to happiness is to indulge one's desires without a care for others and some religions such a Buddhism have said that desire (or the pursuit of happiness) is the root of unhappiness. In modern society, we are free to take whatever approach we would like in the pursuit of happiness but we do not yet have a clear idea of what makes a person happy. Is it the pursuit of one's goals and desires that lead to happiness or does a more selfless life of service to others that lead a happy life?

One of the leading causes of unhappiness for modern workers is the lack of self-fulfillment or meaning. Many people feel that they were placed on earth for a reason and working in a menial job causes many people distress not because the work is monotonous or low-paying but because it lacks a sense of fulfillment. Even when a job is high paying, workers are unhappy when they don't see a growth in themselves and achieving their potential. We see this a lot in sports. Highly compensated multi-millionaire athletes feel like they are losers when they don't have that coveted trophy or a title in their career. There are even reports that Hollywood stars who do win an Oscar (which is a highly sought after goal) live longer than stars who do not win an Oscar. Given these facts, acheiving one's goal and dreams are highly important to ones happiness and well-being.

But what happens after you achieve all your goals and dreams? What's left? Should you retire and live by the beach and enjoy the care-free life? Is everyman an island? Of course not. Humans are social animals who influence and get influenced by those around us. Sociologists have discovered that the overall happiness of a society (let's say Norway or Finland) actually does influence the happiness of an individual. If you live in a happy society, there is a greater chance that you will be happy as well. (This isn't so surprising if you imagine living somewhere like North Korea.) So it is not enough that we simply pursue of own goals and dreams and stop there. It is important that we help those around us achieve their goals and dreams. By helping others we are helping ourselves and most religions of the world recognize this and include it in their teachings. What explains the hundreads of charities and volunteer organizations in the world? Simply, it feels good to help others.

The pursuit of ones goals and dreams and working towards your own happiness can be done as you help others in their journey to happiness. Both are neccessary for the attainment of happiness. There may be some conflicts in the pursuit of both but it is a struggle that we cannot afford to give up.






