Materialism is the every consuming act that drives us to work hard and acquire as much money as possible. Having the newest iPhone or the biggest TV is what society tells us we need to be happy. Does that really make us happy once we have those items? Or we we just want the next best thing that comes out. 

I have fallen for these marketing ploys when I was younger. I wanted the newest cell phone, the latest sound system for my car and the biggest TV I could afford the purchase. I worked three jobs trying to get all these items because that is what was going to make me happy! That is what all the ads told me, that is what the store was selling me every time I walked in to purchase just my basic items I needed. So I got all of those things, I worked very hard to purchase those items and was so caught up with materialistic junk that I lost focus of what really matters in life. I put my family on the back burner and spent most of my time working those multiple jobs. My free time that I did have, was not spend with family, it was "enjoying" all my purchases and using everything I spend my hard earned money on.  I would just repeat this process for the next five years and thought that is what was making me happy.

I lost my job, I had to sell everything I worked to purchase for less than 25% of what I actually paid for those items. It changed my mind, my thinking, my goals and my outlook on life. It was until some drastic happened that caused me to look at life with a different set of eyes. Should I be punished because it took something horrible to make me realize how much time was lost with family and friends? That is the ultimate question here. Should we as the consumers be criticized for wanting what society tells us we "need"?

I personally think that we need to change the way ads are conveyed to the public. These companies put so much emphasis on selling us stuff we don't need to increase their bottom line. Then there are landfills with waste that will never break down that is ruining our planet because we now need the newest gadget of what ever it was that we previously had. We don't recycle it, we just throw it away. 

My struggles in life has changed every aspect of my life. I am still a consumer and I do still love having materialistic items, of course some are needed to live in modern society, but I do not spend as much time working to buy these items that I don't really need to make me "happy". I value more time spent with family and friends. I know once that time passes, I will never be able to get it back. How I spend that time is valuable to me, so I would rather spend it with loved ones, than spend it working at a mediocre job with people I don't care about or love. If that result means I am not rich and can not buy all the junk I don't need then that is going to be how life continues for me. 

Modern society should not be punished by brainwashing ads that tell us we need "stuff" to be happy in life. That is what we are fed on a daily basis inside our homes (television) and outside our homes (billboards, marketing campaigns inside stores, radio, etc). Some of us will continue down the route of buying into materialism because that is what we think will make us happy. The rest of us know and value that our life is made up of more more that the junk we can fill inside our homes. 
