As long as humans have been around, some 300,000 years ago, we have been a materialistic society. Back then it was trying to pocess the most food and pelts, but these days being materialistic could mean hoarding wealth and buying luxury items. Despite human history have roots in materialism, some people argue that modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic. Modern society should absolutely not be criticized because acquiring possessions and spending money provide happiness that people would not have otherwise.

To further understand this, we need to look at how our current society is set up. We need 'things' in order to survive. Things like food, water, and shelter all fall under a hieracrhy of needs in order to obtain self actualization, or happiness. Without a job that pays money, we therfore cannot achieve happiness because otherwise our hierarchy of needs will not be fullfilled. Simply having money and trying to get more 'things' makes us a materialistic society, but since society dictates what we need to work for and our brains are hardwired to want certain things, being materialistic is just a byproduct of being human. Humans strive for fullfillment, and we should not be criticized for seeking a happy life.

Some people would claim that humans live perfectly happy lives without possessions. Think about monks living in isolations dedicating their entire lives to worship. Of course you can argue that they are happy, and I'm sure they are, but you cannot compare such an edge case to modern society. These people that are happy without possessions were raised from the start to ignore the human condition, wereas modern society, also the majority, finds happiness in different ways. At the end of the day, both modern society and monks found their own way to obtain self actualization, but that doesn't mean one side should be criticized and the other praised. Both sides should strive for fullfillment reguardless of the route they take. 

To conclude, modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic because they are just following basic instinct to fullfill their basic needs. These needs take different forms, but materialistic views are natural human behavior.
