Materialism is part of everyday life no matter where you are from and what you do. It is one of the greatest reasons out there for peope to love to hate. But at the end of the day we are all guilty of being materialistic in some capacity. And that is not a bad thing at all. Why shouldn't we have the nicest things that we can get our hands on. 

Should we as a society acutally be criticised for being materialistic? The short answer is no we as a whole should not be criticised for being materialistic. We are a society who is all about what we have vs what we do not have. These wants are a motiviating factor for us to work harder to get those items that we want. Most of us are not born with a silver spoon in our mouths so we are forced to work hard to get those items. We as humans want to be perceived as being in the upper tier of the world and how get there is are the items that we have to showcase to the world. A nice car or a nice house shows that most likely you are a well off person. No real people want to show the world that they are piece of shit. We work hard so that we can get to the top of the mountain and in order to showcase that we need to have those items to help verify that we are at the top. 

As a business owner myself, just having the doors open does not showcase that you are well off or doing well. But if you have those items such as a nice car, nice clothing, a nice house, new equipment in your establishment, that show overall that you are well off. Being materialistic is not a bad thing. It creates competition to out do your friends and family or the person next door. It gives us motivation to work harder and to do better. 

Some will say that being materialistic is a bad thing. It creates a bad level of competition, back stabbing or down right nastyness. Being materialistic can also cause people to be spoiled or self entitled, but at the end of the day there will always be people who think that they are owed this and that for whatever reasons. That is not a result of being materialistic. That is a result of being told that you can have whatever you want but what it neglected in the fact that you need to work hard in order to get those things. Some will say that there is such a thing ahs having too much stuff, which can be a problem if you expect those things without working hard for them.

Some of us need that extra motivation to push ourselves to achieve greater things and being materialistic can help us achieve our best selfs. Is there a such thing as having too many things? Of course there is but we can say that about a lot of other things. At the end of the day when is having too much stuff a bad thing? Being materialistic is not hurting anyone overall. It creates comeptition and the last time I check competition is a good thing to have because it forces us to push ourselves to achieve greatness. At the end of the day when you pass away having a huge stack of money does you no good when you can not use it in heaven. Buy what you want, live your life like you want and just be happy with the things that you have. 
