If I had been asked three years ago if modern society should be criticized for being materialistic, I may have have answered differently than I am about to.  Before the Covid-19 pandemic, I was one of those materialistic people. I was living in an expensive apartment in an nice area that offered much in the areas of shopping, entertainment and dining. I was consuming heartily, and on a daily basis. Amazon boxes on my doorstep became a daily thing. Door Dash and Dominos were my best friends. 

One of my favorite pastimes is reading current events and self-improvement books. A recurring theme in my Twitter Feed is living a better life with fewer things. When I took a step back from being a "consumer" and moved toward labeling myself as a "worker," my perspective changed. I don't know if it was because it was just me and my dog behind closed doors for almost a year. Whatever the reason for my attitude shift, I made the decision to become less materialistic and substitute that negative quality with becoming a more adventurous person. Spending money on experiences - rather than things - has improved my overrall well-being. I am very careful to choose adventurous outings that don't cost a lot of money. But - every once in a while - I will go to a concert or music festival. Leisure activities should be a reward for hard work. We shouldn't spend money on items just because we want it. More thought should go into purchases. Otherwise, the storage unit business will just keep growing and growing. I'm sure other countries think Americans are greedy and gluttonous because of our materialism. 

I feel I made the right decision because I now see how corporate greed gouges the everyday consumer. We are seeing companies with record pandemic-era profits reward their CEOs with big bonuses but raise prices on the items consumers need the most: gas, education, housing and groceries. The companies use this price-gouging to further divide our citizes into haves and have-nots. These companies weaponize misinformation by making the average consumer think that high prices are the fault of the current white house administration. One-third of the American populace thinks the president can control gas prices. 

Some may say we need to be more materialistic so we can prop up our fragile economy. I say bollocks. American have confused wants vs. needs. We are contributing to the downfall of our climate by producing items that are fleeting and will be thrown away the same they are purchased. Single-use plastic water bottles area an example of this waste. Convenience has beat out common sense in the American psyche. 

The Walmarts and Amazons of the world will continue to push material items on to consumers. There must be a shift in our collective thinking to avoid this trap. Keeping up with the Joneses is an exhausting way to live. If we can all look inward and see what is truly important, most will see that another pair of shoes in our closet isn't as important as a day trip to a free museum or a walk around a local lake. 

I recently bought a travel trailer and have given up a life of materialism. I have all that I need and I will purchase any material items with the utmost discretion. I will also purchase more used items so that I can upcycle. 


