There are different ways of achieving success, be it in your personal or business life. While there are no right or wrong ways, there are different benefits to working together as a team, or solo in a competitive setting. That being said, one should not feel restricted, and forced into one or the other category. Different situations call for different methods to achieve one's goals. Sometimees, different methods can be utilized within the same situation, to keep the progress flowing.

In the following paragraphs, I will touch on two different methods, and attempt to show the benefits of each. I will speak from my own life experiences, and try to give some insight as to how my own successes were achieved.

Working toward a successful goal can sometime be more easily achieved when workers cooperate together. The strengths of some in certain areas of the task can certainly compensate for teammates deficiencies. As long as all members of the team are focused on the same goal/outcome, there shouldn't be any problem. They have to set their egos aside for the greater good. Everyone has something to contribute, and the more skilled or knowlegeable of the team need to recognize this. All opinions are important when working as a cooperative unit.

Success can also be competition driven. I for one, am certainly open to, and even welcome, the drive that a good competition provides. The urge to succeed on a higher level than your competition, is quite motivating. You will be forced to be more creative in your thinking and plans to advance. You will hold work that is solely credited to you at a much higher standard. There is no one to blame for any shortcomings, so personal satisfaction with the work will be prioritized.

In a world where people, especially workers, are judged upon their successes, it is important to know how you will achieve your best outcome. You need to know your strenghts as well as weaknesses. You need to know when to stand on your own, as well as when to reach for that helping hand.  

Do whatever it takes to succeed. No one will look out for your best interests better than you will. 
