     In the society we live in materialism is the norm, but the root cause of materialism goes much deeper than the desire to "have more stuff". Our endless drive to acquire goods stems from an inate desire for safety, acceptance, and belonging. We have come a long way as a species. We have developed the capacity to imagine and invent things that make our lives better, but we are still animals when it comes down to it. We still have basic instincts that have never left us. We all feel an urge to belong to a tribe. This is how we survived long ago. We depended on other people accepting us in order to obtain food, protection, and safety. Without those things we didn't stand a chance against predators, the elements, and starvation.

     Buying goods can make us happy for a variety of reasons. We may enjoy the act of using the item or the item may make our lives easier in some way. One of the big reasons that we want to purchase material things is that it signals a certain social standing to the people around us. Teenagers want the latest and most popular sneakers because their peers notice those things and they are more likely to be accepted into the "tribe" when they signal that they have the "cool shoes". Adults want a Mercedes because it signals wealth and success and people are drawn to those things. It signals the ability to provide the basic necessities that we all need to survive. It is not the good itself that we desire, but the acceptance that comes with it.

     I am not arguing that being materialistic is necessarily a good thing. What does it say about us that we feel the need to impress others with material things in order to be accepted. Shouldn't we base our acceptance of others on more meaningful things such as a person's character, ability to empathize, compassion, honesty? Those things are important, but those are not the things that provide what we are all hard wired to strive for. We are made to want to survive. This is our number one goal. It is a natural instinct that we cannot overcome. We want our species to survive and we want our DNA to be passed down. 

     The materialism we see all around us is simply a modern day manifestation of something that was always there. We have always been driven to obtain more resources. We have always wanted to show our worth to those around us in order to be accepted. We have always depended on proving our value to society in one way or another in order to survive. Should we criticize something that is natural and maybe even beyond our control? I say yes and no. When exhorbitant individual materialism starts to harm society by making resources scarce then there is a problem. A CEO having billions while people starve is not good for a society and not a sustainable model for its continuation. We need to learn to balance our natural instinct to acquire more things with our ability to recognize the importance of values such as fairness, compassion, and cooperativeness when it comes to the survival of any society. 
