Materialism in American society is contributing to a number of problems for the USA.  Therefore, in my opinion, a concerted effort to reduce materialism in each American household needs to happen, although it will have a direct effect on the economy.  Today's society should be criticized for being materialistic.

Firstly, continuing to buy and buy and buy without regard to the financial consequences causes credit card balances to grow and grow.  This creates a financial burden on the household and increases worry and stress.  Secondly, there is not enough room to store all the newly purchased things.  This causes old things to be thrown out.  Most people will send that item to the trash.  This increases landfill usage and creates additional pressures on cities, counties and communities to handle all the trash.  Some will even buy bigger houses in order to fit all the things in.  Donating it and otherwise finding a way to recycle is the better solution.  Thirdly, materialism contributes to global warming:  the production of the item creates energy usage.  If the item wasn't truly needed, then that energy usage just went to waste.  If the item uses electricity, its usage contributes to global warming from its use.  There is also the issue of shipping the item.  If it comes from another country, the shipping of the item certainly creates more energy usage contributing to more global warming.  Fourthly, materialism leads to lowering our valuation system.  Having too many things and the ability to keep adding to that anytime something is wanted devalues everything.  Nothing has importance.  Items are too easily obtained.

On the other hand, for some, having those items brings happiness, although short-lived.  The production of those items creates jobs.  In some third world countries, those jobs are incredibly important to the lives of the workers.  The biggest effect of slowing materialism is on the economy.  If we stop buying things we don't really need, then those workers don't get paid and might starve, the shipping companies won't have anything to ship and they will go under.  The stores where the items are purchased will have less need to stock items and this will impact the number of workers required by the store.  If stores don't have business, the store will close.  This, then, leads to more empty retail spaces resulting in the energy used to create the space to be totally wasted.   The American economy will increase issues with trade balances with other countries, and if the items are made in America, then American jobs will be lost and more people will need assistance through welfare and other benefits.  

Continuing to buy things that aren't truly needed leads to many problems.  Slowing the purchase of these items is one way an individual can make a difference in slowing global warming, reducing landfill requirements and increasing overall good will through recycling for someone else in need.  The economy will adjust to the changed needs.  A household will be in a better position to pay off credit card balances.  An individual will grow in appreciation of the items already owned and attach true meaning to how an item was acquired and its importance in being in the home.  Modern society needs to learn to be less materialistic.
