Success. This is a word that many people know, but not a lot of people can reach. Success is a term in which a person feel as though they have to reach, in any facet of life. From obtaining a job, purchasing a vehicle, a home, or even starting a relationship with someone that a lot of people would love to be with, success is a term that can have many different meanings. So, to answer the question of whether success is better acheived through competition or cooperation, I choose cooperation.

In a world that is constantly revolving, cooperating with other like-minded individuals  lead to more lasting accomplishments. In my opinion, in order to become competitive, one must collaborate in order to have a higher probability of success. No one has ever been able to attain a vast amount of success by themselves. A great example of this would be the Isley Brothers, a musical group based out of Lincoln Heights, Ohio. The Isley Brothers have been in the music industry, dating back to 1954, and have always stayed together, in order to achieve success through their catalog of singles, and albums. The success of one of their earlier singles, "Shout," made them realize that cooperation, and collaboration will always bring success, as well as competition from other musicians.

On the other hand, we do live in a competitive society. A great example of this is interviewing for a particular job. Most, if not all people realize that they are not the only one that is being interviewed by a company for that particular job. We tailor our resumes, and practice answering potential interview questions as best as we can, in order to do one thing: stand out from the other candidates. In the greatest of terms, competition is a concept that applies to all of us, but not all of us have to compete in order to achieve success.

In conclusion, cooperation has a bigger impact when it comes to achieving success. Whether it is a major project at work, or a college essay to finish, having an extra person or two involved leads to quicker, and better results. Not only does it allow for people to work together, but it also helps each other achieve success. In cooperation, everyone is a winner.
