The pursuit of happiness is a lifelong goal for humanity. It is the subject of countless self-help books, many religious tenets, and even articles in magazines one might find in the grocery store checkout line. There is a constant tension between pursuing one's own dreams and focusing on the happiness of others. While some choose to commit fully to themselves or fully to others, true happiness can only be achieved by focusing on one's own dreams and by working to improve humanity and help others achieve their dreams.

The happiness derived from reaching one's own goals is generally self-contained. If one achieves a personal goal, the primary sense of happiness is within. Of course, one may share these achievements with others and feel a sense of communal happiness, but this is usually dwarfed by the personal feeling of happiness. For example, if someone wins a race, they are happy with themselves and proud of their achievement. People around them may also feel happy for them, but the winner is the most happy with themselves.

The happiness that comes from helping others and improving the world is typically shared with others, and therefore is a different kind of happiness. To build on the race analogy, if a team of people wins a race, then they will celebrate the accomplishment together and acknowledge that all individuals contributed to the success of the team. This is a unique sense of happiness that comes from cooperation and comradery. 

Some may argue that true happiness can only be achieved by focusing on one's own goals and dreams. However, this is a self-contained happiness. Working together to improve humanity and create happiness for multiple people, pursuing "the greater good" creates a fuller sense of happiness that can be shared with others. 

Alternatively, some may think that true happiness can only be achieved by ignoring one's own dreams and goals and solely focusing on the happiness of others. This may cause someone to lose their sense of self, and think that their only value comes as part of a group. In order to preserve one's individuality and strengthen the value of the group, one must also continue to pursue their own happiness and goals in addition to the happiness and goals of the group.

Happiness comes by pursuing one's own dreams and goals, and by focusing on the happiness of others and on the improvement of humanity. True happiness is multidimensional and requires both realization of personal goals and the contribution to improving the world as a whole. It is unhealthy to focus solely on oneself or solely on others. Instead, a good balance must be reached between the two. It might be easier to think of the pursuit of happiness as an absolute focus on oneself or the greater good, but one must be able to balance both pursuits to achieve true happiness.
