    People are very strange in their way of thinking. They have many type of thoughts about what is a good way to get glorius; but not everyone have a important thing in mind: Patience.

    Patience is something importat for a group of people, like these persons who win a competition or a firts place in their jobs or schools. Patience is something that only fool people don't have in their mind.

    In this way, Patience is important. Bit it is not the only thing for everyone who want to be sucess in the life, because there are other thing to get: Cooperation.

    Cooperation between coworkers and friends is the heart for archieve success. Sometimes not everyone have in mind the same things, like buy a house, marry with a nice woman or man, have kids or something like that; but, is important to write one true:

    Life is very short for all of us, and if we just fight and forget cooperations between us, we will be anlone in the darkness. 

    Victory is a good friend, but a lone victory without really friends is just cold and empty. What is the point to have a nice life and nice things if all friends don't exist?

    Victory if not the only thing for us. Sometimes we need a hug from a loved person, and see the world like it is: quiet, powerfull and big. 

     Maybe this words will be hilarius for someone, but I think exist someone who want to hear —or read in this case— because he or she is lost in his or her life. 
   
    Remember: fight with everyone for the victory or glorius is good if your fight with your friends in cooperation. Never forget that always will be people around you what want to help you in your achieve.

    And, my last words and thoughts about this topic:

     In my personal experience I can write that I had two friends long time ago. They was two person what I really loved in the past. They was great persons with me and they was by my side in the worts moments of my life. We fight together side by side and we win. But one day I walk anlone, and I let them behand me. Don't import to me, and just I let it go.
   
     Since that day I can say I feel anlone. They was a really god people for me, and I just let it go. I never see them again and I don't care, except one day when I see the true: I miss them with all my heart. 

    Friends are important, more important that victory or nice thing. Nothing in the life is like have friends and be cooperative with them.

    So, yes... People is more success by cooperation with friend that competition.
