Assigning meaning to materials is a culture shared among all humans- even for those who have negative association with owning too many (or the wrong) things. We may feel sentimental, secure, capable, powerful, fashionable based on our collection of objects. Eras of US cultural life- at least the widely-disseminated middle-class American dream- are define by materials: two cars in every garage, air conditioners, and flat-screen TVs have helped define our collective definition of standard creature comforts. 

Materialism is generally negatively discussed regarding those who want for nothing- the 1%, trust fund kids, and others whose homes and purchases are reported in magazines, TV shows, and highly-viewed social media posts. But most of us, whether low-income, steady, or with money to burn, own items that bring us joy on the basis that we own them, and there are more items still that we believe would fulfill us if we did own. These items are not the same for everyone. The competition that a Silicon Valley employee feels within their tech-based office to own the latest gadgets is different from that of a collector finding a rare object after a long hunt. Yet both of these examples are relatable to many of us, to some degree: materials that we want because of the status they are associated with, and those that rqeuired effort outside of funds and a trip to the mall to obtain. 

It's fair to critique materialism for its attempts to establish a unified personality type. Most of us can easily genereate the type of materialistic person that we're tired of hearing about, or perhaps find ourselves guiltily reading up on when browsing online articles and posts. But to criticize profound attachment and meaning assigned to our things is futile; people have always been fond of our objects. Even a reliable iron kettle in a quaint kitchen can be prided by its owner, its function appreciated as much as its contribution to the look and feel of a cozy home. Though a cliche by this point, the advice to "not let your things own you" is a reasonable guideline when it comes to materialism. Items that one truly cannot afford are best admired from a distance, and things that we own only out of an anxiety to achieve desired social status should be examined. Items collected under those circumstances will not leave one happy as money woes and social pressure continue to climb. However, the quest that we all feel to either own (or whittle down to) items that we experience as treasurely is a pursuit that makes living both engaging and dynamic. 
