Images are all around us. You can't go anywhere without being exposed to images of some kind like advertising, directional signage, and product packaging. Images live in our pockets on our cell phones and on our computers. Images help us determine what something is without having to think to much about it. The real question is can we trust what we determine about images? Are these accurate impressions?

For many people sight is the sense that we rely on the most. If there is a cat in front of you your sight will tell you that right away. While your sight will tell you what an object or being is it can't give you a fullly accurate description of the object or being. Your sight can't tell you with complete validity if it is a friendly cat or not. You may observe the body language of the cat and make an assumption but you will not know for sure until you walk up to it and pet it or try to pick it up. It can be helpful to use images to make quick judgements but you need to be prepared to do more investigating or be willing to change your impressions when you are met with counter evidence. 

When you are browsing social media you are met with constant selfies and vacation photos. It looks like everyone is gorgeous and having a great time. Taking everything at face value on these sites can be deterimental. You form the impression that everyone is beautiful even flawless and then you take that impression and compare it with your own appearance. This comparison can make you feel inferior and less worthy of attention and affection. What we fail to realize when making these comparisons is that we are only seeing the best of the best images. 

The mental health of younger people especially suffers when exposed to countless "perfect" images on social media. This obsession with beauty and the perfect skin and weight can lead to eating disorders and depression. The photos have likely been filtered and retouched to remove any negative appearances. You are not seeing the absolute truth. You are seeing what someone wishes the truth was. Taking these photos at face value can sour your perception of yourself and lead to resentment of the people that have posted them. This uneccessary resentment can lead to broken relationships and conflict. 

We need to rely less on the images that we see and look for further context. Some may say that it takes too much time to do this but its necessary if we want to get to the real truth in entertainment, media, and advertising. Just taking things at face value can lead you to be manipulated unecessarily. That isn't to say that everything needs to be scrutinized in detail. You need to learn what is worth getting to the truth of. When you feel overtly manipulated by something or someone after observing it for some time it might be a good idea to think about why the image caused you to form an opinion. You can try to discover what the creator really intended you to think about the content.  

If we can learn to spot manipulation in images and to not obsses about the images we see on social media I think that society will be better off. Learning to not take many things at face value and as the absolute truth will keep up from feeling inferior. It will lead to less comparison and misunderstanding. It will take power away from those who try to manipulate us and put it back in our hands. A more informed society will make less misjudgments and be wiser all around.

