The question asked in our prompt is if images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. In the prompt a valid point is brought up. The point is that In media entertainers, politicians and various other public figures are deemed more valuable based on how they look, post or even how popular they seem and aren't deemed valueable based on their skills, careers, or aspirations.I fully believe that images and impressions have too much of an effect on peoples ability to rate or interact with public figures. It seems that nowadays people are held to a lower standard when it comes to their abilities and a higher standard when it comes to how they look. If you take a look at the cast members from love is blind, you will see that one of the members from the first season is a scientist. When you look at this members social media platforms you see no posts about his abilities, career or even anything science related. In fact all you see is stylish pictures, vacation photos and attractive pictures of him and his wife. He has tons of followers and interactions on his page because of the material he posts. If he strictly posted science related content do you think he would have just as many followers or interactions? Probably not. This is because people are more interested in looking at public figures high life, vacaions and sexy poses. We are brainwashed into thinking that the pictures and content we post reflects how other see us and therefore we enjoy interacting with indivuals who represent what we want in life. In relality we don't know who these people truly are and we don't know if their life is infact better than ours. I think there are people out there who disagree with me stating that images ad impressions have an effect on us however, I think these people have been blinded to think that way. One argument could be that doja cat who posts videos of her everyday life has plenty of followers and interactions. I agree that she does have a lot of interactions however I think she has these interactions because her life appears to be so much better than the average joe. She may post videos of her eating a cheeseburger but if you look closely you see she's eating in a thousand dollar outfit ad in an expensive nice home. I don't think the average woman would recieve as many views eating as she does because we don't perceive them to be the same. In my opinion Doja cat doesn't receive tiktok views because she is an amazing singer or artist. In fact she doesn't post videos of her performing so one can infer she receives the views she does because of the image and impression we have on her. The image of being rich and happy, but is she really happy? Does she really have money? We will never know based of the image she upholds. In the end we all watch content that demonstrates what we want in life. I watch people who appear rich and happy, you may watch people who shop excessively but none of us actually interact with them because they have talent or show off their abilities. If we did there would be more artists, teacher, scientist and woodworkers in the public eye. 
