Now days materialism is so important for the society , it dosent even matter that you like what you buught the thing that matters to most people is that they have to make a good impression for people around.

But should modern society have to be criticized for it ? , yes and I can confirm it as many time belive me the least important thing is if you want to look good in the eyes of other ones wearing an expensive article , I can understand that you work hard to get it and that probably you put a lot on effort to get it but lets be honest thats  selfish as a modern society in this years most of the youngest people fight for many things to make our society better and  one of those things is we need to save our planet and do you think you are saving the planetor helping the society buying many things because  thereare on trend , the answer is a no because if the society is materialistic it increase the consumism and that affects evryone because we need to explode our short resouces to make more shopping articles that nobady will remeber in 2 months.

And here is one of the great examples now days one of the articles that most people what to get are clothes and sneackers to be cool , but this modern society has been the one that change the trend of clothes every month . so people what to get it and they start consuming and getting into the fast fashion one of the most contaminating situations this year , the amount of clothes that are thown away is unbelivable , and also if you dont stay in trend getting those things people would say that you are probably outdated.

But many people hides himself saying :
. I work hard to get my money 
. I dont throw away the things
. I found them a second use even if I dont wan them
and those point will go away because yes you work hard to buy the things you want but why dont you think in the things that the planet needs so thatyou can keep alive ? , yes you probably dont throwaway the things you getbut the production of making them already contributes in the contamination , and of course you can found them a second use but if you were not needing them in the firstplace the you shouldnt get them .

As a conclusion I can say that yes this moder society needs to be criticized for being materialistic , because if  they are fighting to keep a nice society and also help the planet, thn they should be helping to stop consumism because you only what a material thing for a a day or two, we should look around and make things better for everyone find solutions and make and effort to stop consumism because of materialism because it dosent mean you have to stop consuming things it means that before getting a thing you should ask if you really need it and if its really necessary to get it .
