  As children, we are taught that rivalry is a good attitude to have towards challenges.  While rivalry can help us win that high school chess tournament or game of Monopoly with your best friend, rivalry can also hinder our success.  In order to be truly successful, or rather, to have accomplishments that last and benefit us in both the present and future, it is imperative to cooperate with others.  Cooperation is beneficial in many of life's aspects, including romantic relationships, workplace success, and friendships.
  Many people mistakenly believe that appearing better than others will get them a loving partner.  While dating apps nowadays encourage people to display wealth, social status, and high quality photos to attract dates, these suggestions tend to backfire.  Potential dates may be disappointed when they meet in person or may want to date for the wrong reasons, leading to self disappointment and a lack of love.  This obsession of dating rivalry distracts from the good qualities someone has and potential partners are only able to focus on superficial aspects, thus, it is more important to be true to yourself instead of comparing yourself to others in the dating realm.
  In the business world, rivalry can potentially get an employee a bonus or promotion, but one must be careful not to overdo it.  Excessive rivalry makes it difficult for employees to come together to solve difficult problems when unexpected challenges occur.  Rivalry discourages business collaboration and hinders brainstorming new diverse ideas that could help a company thrive.
  While it is always fun to have rivals in friendships, too much rivalry could potentially cause someone to lose that friendship.  Friends often discuss hot topics such as politics and being overly abrasive can make your friends feel alienated and they may want to spend less time with you.  Try to find a medium when discussing topics with friends that could spark disagreements; make sure to encourage sharing opinions of all kinds and go easy on the rivalry.
  In short, rivalry can help us grow, but it is important to ease back on how much of it we focus on.  Focusing on bettering ourselves and coming together with others on dates, in the office, and while spending times with friends will lead to lifelong accomplishments and meanngful relationships with others.
