     One of my biggest pet peeves is how people can be swayed by looks alone or how they can let others influence what they think or even feel.  For instance, people tend to judge others based on what they see or by what others might say about someone without even knowing anything about that person. It is very common for people to get caught up in letting their feelings or opinions veer toward what someone else might be expressing, especially if the person is someone that they might look up to, or even idolize.  
     I once experienced someone who clearly was being judgemental based on a persons looks and maybe even their demeanor.  I was greeting a client and his family with a hug for all.  While I was hugging the Father, I could see a co-workers client seated in the waiting area looking our way. She had a look of distaste on her face as she watched us.  My clients were dressed in their work clothes and looked a little on the unkempt side of things.  I felt her scrutiny down to my very core.  I might be jumping the gun here as she could have had that look for other reasons.  She might have thought that hugging my clients was unprofessional.  She could have thought a number of different things to give her that look of disgust. I didn't think so and I found out later, I was right.
     My colleague mentioned that their client thought when people came to have their taxes prepared,  they shouldn't bring their kids in with them and they should dress accordingly. I will never forget this encounter because it really hurt my heart. I will never understand how our society can label others and put themselves above others by social status, wealth or because they have a higher education.  Others may think that they are above reproach when it comes to how they act or dress etc. but I think they need to walk in someone elses shoes before they pass judgement or put on airs. 
     The world could be a much better place if everyone thought more with a little bit of heart thrown in instead of being influenced by others for the wrong reasons.  
