Our human nature to chase what makes us feel good has lead to our own demise. Sometimes what makes us feel good isn't necessarily what we need or much less what's considered good for us. However, we humans tend to be driven towards our wants such as being driven materialistictly. This is a common trend that has been happening in the recent years and has made our generation worry more about the things we have or want rather than the things that we truly need. In this essay we will be looking at what makes us materialistic such as the feel good chemicals in our brain, the desire to want the next best thing or to simply fill a void that remains empty with or without material items. 

When humans try to feel good they chase the brain chemical know as dopamine. Dopamine is a chemical released in our brains that let's us know we have done some thing good or that we are feeling on cloud 9. The more people tend to chase after this feel good chemical the harder it is to sustain it. Essentially, a person could have made a thousand dollas in their small business margins and the person will feel good about his earning. However, that same person will eventually want more and more, slowly opening that void for fulfilment along the way. At some point that same person will be unable to fill that same void even with all the accomplishments and wealth in the world. 

Sometimes it can be something so basic such as jealousy. Humans tend to be jealous of other people's accomplishments and wealth. By doing so they thrive to obtain what other people have rather than appreciating what they already have and be grateful. 
As mentioned before, people tend to open a void for themseleves. Other times, a void already existst within themselves. Such as loosing a special person whom they love. People tend to try to fill that void that was left behind with material objects. However, the only way they will be able to replace that void is the same person they felt good with. 

It all comes down to perpective, regardless if you are someone who has an abundance or not you should be grateful for what you have. Always remind yourselves that money isn't everything in the world. What's most important is the things that cannot be replaced such as your loved ones and making memorable experiences. However, modern society shouldn't be criticized for being materialistic as sometimes even the wealthy have problems that not much people would understant. They just deal with their vices differently than others do. 
