We live in a world where every image has been digitially manipulated.  Wrinkles have been removed, waistlines have been thinned, and colors have been saturated.  Nothing viewers see online is completely real.  This removal of reality from images of everyday things and people, both celebrity and acquaintances, have had a huge effect of people.  Unfortunately, that effect is often a negative one.  

Advertisers have long used edited photos to sell their products.  A car in an ad will be photographed and that image will be visually improved.  Highlights will be added, backgrounds erased, hired artists will make sure that car looks flawless and attractive to buyers.  The same process will be done with a bowl of cereal in a magazine ad. Every object must be perfected to attract buyers.  More and more, the process of editing photos is starting to become more commonplace.  Personal photos, especially on social media, often follow that same process of being perfected.

Photoshopped images have a huge affect on young people.  Teens and young adults compare themselves to these heavily altered images and it often lowers their self esteem.  Eating disorders are sometimes directly related to young men and women attempting to mimic an appearance a model doesn't even actually possess.  Young girls sometimes wear layers of make-up, overlining their lips or shading their nose, in an effort to mimic the perfected images they see online.  

Digitally manipulated images also create a sense of dissatisfaction in people.  People utilizing dating applications can easily swipe left from one edited photo to another.  There will always be a prettier person waiting to be checked out on the app. The real life dates typically don't look as good as they do in their photos.  People would rather stay involved in a dating app, rather than a relationship, due to the preference people are starting to have, preferring edited selfies to reality.  One can often see this same situation occurring in normal life scenarios, due to social media.  People often only post the pretty, perfect photos of their families.  This causes struggling mothers or fathers to feel like a failure when their family does not compete with that image.   Even photos used in real estate advertisements are starting to be affected by this trend.  Virtual furniture is often added to give a house a homey feeling.  Colors are lightened or darkened to improve the appearance.  
 
Today's images are always edited.  Everything is perfected before the public is able to see it.  Even the everyday person has the tools available to change their personal photos.  For those who don't see past the perfection and recognize that these photographs have been altered, there can be many negative outcomes, from lowered self-esteem to a greater sense of dissatisfaction with one's own life.  While, it is not necessary for images to stop being Photoshopped, it would be healthy for all viewers to sometimes see the unedited versions or to be reminded of the circumstances that created that perfect image.  This would be especially helpful for younger people.
