Modern society must absolutely be criticised for placing a heavy emphasis on materialism. The problem with materialism is that it focuses on certain negative traits found within humanity and detracts from some positive ones as well. Materialism also serves to demarcate groups of people into the haves and have-nots, which leads to isolation and classism. Finally, a focus on materialism, with its easy association with pleasure, consumes people and serves as an end goal in life rather than a reward.

In modern society, we have a lot. Fewer and fewer people globally are in poverty and wealth is increasing globally (though not in an equal fashion). We also have a lot of physical resources in addition to luxury and semi-luxury goods that are readily available for purchase. The easy availability of luxury products makes it easier to acquire them, should one have the resources. The desirability of luxury goods is reinforced through social media, where anyone around the world can easily view people donning expensive material goods, which further reinforces their social value. 

The emphasis on acquiring material goods causes people to focus on vanity, self-promotion, individualism, and showing off, all traits which are generally negative. At the same time, the focus on materialism detracts from modesty, helping others, and intellectual pursuits, which is unfortunate. Because material goods are so in demand and are seen as must-have items, people go to great lengths to make the necessary money to acquire these goods, which detracts from perhaps more nobler or socially beneficial pursuits which might not benefit you directly in a monetary sense.

Materialism has also served to great even greater class divisions in society. By focusing on acquiring material goods due to their perceived social value, your ability or inability to acquire them portrays you as either rich or not rich (i.e. poor or less than), which creates a negative perception of lower class individuals. In essence, people are increasingly defined by what they have (or do not have), which is a poor measure of character, humility, and other positive attributes critical to happy, well-functioning societies.

Some people, so focused on material goods that they lose sight of other life purposes, make acquiring material goods an end goal. This essentially is the meaning of life for a lot of people, which is both sad and inhibits personal growth. This is easily seen on social media platforms such as instagram, where influencers flaunt their goods, such as expensive cars and houses or their expensive clothing. 

That is not to say that material goods are inherently a bad thing. They bring pleasure, fun, convenience, and meaning into are lives. However, I believe it is healthier to view them more as a reward for hard, meaningful work than as an end goal in life. 

At the same time, some might claim that focusing on acquiring wealth and material goods leads people to improve their social standing in life and increase money flows to both themselves and their families, which could alleviate those suffering from poverty. In addition, the high demand for excellent products also benefits consumers by forcing producers to create higher quality, more reliable products. Finally, focusing on material goods has likely been a boon for certain craftsmen, engineers, designers, and hobbyists who all play a part in producing high quality material goods. These creators are able to use additional resources to feed their passions and exercise impressive creative skills, which is healthy and beneficial.

In the end, however, society's excessive focus on materialism is likely a net negative. From redefining people's purposes in life to reinforcing classist forces to worsening our ability to think of others, I believe our current heavy focus on materialism needs to be reevaluated. 
