We've heard it time and time again, especially here in America, we only care about material items. Although I can't speak for others, it does seem that way when we look around. We as a society have become more obssessed with the items we have than on the importance of culture and family. That leads me to my question. "Should modern society be critized for being too materialistic?". 

Hear me out, everyone has social media. We are constantly scrolling, liking, and sharing with those around us. However, we tend to compare our lives to others and this includes things we have and others may not and vice versa. I myself do not have any social media for this particular reason. I've noticed I'm a lot happier without it. Wether we realize we do it or not, we spend too much time comparing our lives to others,  and usually its material things those people have. I think I can say for most people, that just puts them in a slump of depression and wondering thoughts. With that being said, I think that is a reason to be critical to society. Why do we care what others have, why can't we just be happy with what we have? 

Our modern society is definitely overly materalistic. We need and want the newest things, whether we can afford them or not. We look at our neighbors and see their new car or how they renovated their house and we automatically want it. Even if we can't afford it! This view point on life has left people in tremendous amounts of debt, just because they think they have to "keep up with the Jones". This is another fair reason to criticize modern society. Why do we insist on going in debt for something that we don't need but WANT, and lets be honest, probably because you saw somebody else who had it. 
I've seen this become a visvious cycle for many people to the point where they have to file for bankruptcy, and sadly, do it all over again.

Another point I wanted to bring up, is maybe if we had economical classes in school, many children from a young age would understand the value of money. If we were taught what debt is or how to manage a credit card properly or even how to budget so extra money can be set aside for said material items, it could make a world of difference. We learn our habits from those who raise us, that includes how we spend our money. I truly believe if something like this were in place it would stop a lot of excessive buying and debt, we'd see a lot more people being financially stable. Especially young adults. 

I was not brought in a materialistic way. I learned from a young age that family and my culture is more important in life then the things we have. It is really frustrating to see that this is no longer the case for most families in America. That being said, I absolutely, 100 percent, think our society should be criticised for being too materialistic. Its tearing away from our values, family time, and our overall happiness. Take time to look around and be thankful for the things in which you do have. 
