Competition vs. Cooperation is an age old battle that is hard to quantify and yet is often put to the test in the real world. Do we see better results by pitting people against one another and asking them to rise to the top, or do we foster an environment asking them to work together to brainstrom and find a common goal to achieve success. Defining success, is a good way to decide what type of environment might be the most rewarding and appropriate.

Success is reaching a goal. What goal? If you want a cut-throat winner-take-all system, competition is king. But what if the goal is not about being the best, but about actually achieving results? Then cooperation is the solution. If a company has a problem, bringing people together and letting them work the problem as a group will bring about better results to solve the issue because everyone will bring in a different perspective. With teamwork, brainstorming ideas and working from multiple angles ideas can be refined, reinforced and perfected to a winning degree. These ideas have a better chance of covering holes, appealing to more and varied people as well as being comprehensive in addressing any shortcomings.

Cooperation will spark ideas from one another that no one would come up with alone only looking at a problem from their perspective. While, you might say that cooperation can lead to lazy people just letting a few carry all the work, it is more likely that those people will be inspired to share ideas in a group setting, than speak out in a competitive environment. Fostering free thinking and working together can achieve better employees who aren't afraid to share and think outside the box, which can lead to break throughs and new products, ideas and designs that would be lost in competition.

Rewards can drive competition and encourage people to try, but a satisfactory conclusion to a project with a successful outcome will foster more open, forward thinking atmosphere in workplace. Knowing that with a cooperative, you can identify a problem and not need a solution but allow the group to approach it encourages people to never be satisfied with the status quo. People will be more willing to bring out problems and work together to find successes, and not just achieve a reward. Rewards for the group will also bring about a friendly work group that wants all kinds of people to bring in ideas so that everyone wins in the end, including the company.

Being all-for-one and one-for all, is a way to keep a happy work environment, lead to less individual stress for employees and generate better more comprehensive ideas in the workplace. Less stress means that employees will work better, think more clearly and enjoy coming into work. Competition can be fun, when you're at the top, but only one person can be at the top in that scenario. In cooperation, the whole team can be at the top and if success breeds success, a team of people at the top will bring in better results than a lone person working alone for a solo reward.
