Materialism is an unavoidable truth in our society. Human life is centered around work, time with familiy and friends, and free time. Materialism in necessary to see these areas fulfilled. With materialism being so essential to our lives, to have society be criticized for it is unjust.

Many people in our society see themselves at work fourty hours each week. While some are lucky to have jobs they love, many people find themselves stuck at jobs they don't really enjoy. They are there for one simple reason, to make money. With work life taking up so much of a typical life, using some of this money to fund activities and possesion that make life enjoyable is completely reasonable. As long as you do not go beyond your means and spend so much that you cannot afford the necessities, nobody should be critized for trying to enjoy the remaining time in their lives.

Materialism can also enhance your time with family and friends. Whether it is funding a vacation, going out to eat, or buying toys for your children, these experiences make life more enjoyable and memorable for everyone. One could argue for the possibility of raising spoiled children, but if done correctly, "spoiling" your kids is not possible. Installing good values and teaching life lessons about appreciating what you have will countereact such  materialistic spending.

Your own free time and enjoyment is also important. How we spend our time has great impact on our mental health. Mental health is a vital part of human life, and having possessions and activies you enjoy is a vital part of this. To criticize others for spending money on things that bring them happiness is unfair. Poor mental health can lead to many negative consequences and have a negative impact on other aspects of your life. If spending money and aquiring possessions brings someone happiness, who are we to take that away and judge them?

All in all, materialism has taken on a negative connotation in our society. This is unfair and unneccessary, as it it a vital and unavoidable part of life. Something that brings joy to yourself and others should not be judged so harshly. 
