The achievement of sucess can be obtained through both task, but the cost of them is what makes them so different. If you were to go through a cooperative method to achieve sucess, then you would be working with others to communicate in a way that will help you aid one another to make their goal. Though if you were to go through a competitive method to achieve sucess, then you would have to be a solo worker and have to put in your own effort to make your goals. My overall opinion when deciding between which will help you achieve more sucess would be through cooperation.
As I had mentioned before, cooperaton is a team operated form of work. You would have to do team based projects and work with others constantly to suceed in this area of expertise. The skills necessary for this area is problem solving, creative/innovative thinking, and teamwork. These are necessary in order to deal with any problems during projects like unnecessary bickering over topics or coming to conclusions on certain ideas. It is good to know how to be a leader and follower in this setting as well because if too many individuals are strong headed, then the work will not be completed efficiently. Though if you are too strong headed about decisions you want have made without others involved, then there is a perfect area of work other than cooperation available.
The perfect area for solo decision makers would be competitive ones. By establishing a competitive area, individuals will be able to immerse themselve alone in their own projects without others involved. The gratification of completing something in a competitive environment is way more impactful since it was only done by yourself without the aid of other individuals. However some people that are not as strong-willed or self disiplined as leaders may struggle in this area. This is because they just don't have enough of a competitive mindset to want to put themselves against others in this area which is perfectly fine.
With all of the following information above, I can conclude that the area you can suceed in best all depends on the person themself. If you were to have enough self-disipline and strength to get projects done against other competitors, then the competitive environment is for you. But if you like to work with others in different positions to put multiple ideas and thoughts to use, then the cooperative environment is for you. For me especially, I know I would thrive in a cooperative environment since I enjoy spreading my ideas socially amoungst others and working with other. However, I also know that I can accomplish things on my own even better within the competitive settings since I've earned higher scores within school on my own and while doing sports as well. 
