"Pursuit of happiness" is a phrase I heard often growing up. I didn't understand it most of the time. As a child there are many things that brings you happiness; your mother's embrace after a long day at school, your father combing your hair, your siblings all laughing and crowding in the living room playing video games together. Toys, games, friends, going to your favorite restaurant on a saturday morning, holidays, grandparents, the park. Growing up, I was a very happy kid. 

As I've gotten older, I've learned that happiness is easier to obtain than others believe- but it can also become elusive. Many times as adults we are stressed about the state of our world, both individually and as a society. Consumerism makes up believe that happiness lies in "things." The harder you work, the more money you'll get, the more things you buy and therefore the happier you are.  

Happiness is an every changing state of being. It's an emotion, a goal, a "pursuit." Happiness can come from our actions, such as a dream or personal goals. It can come instrically or from external forces. There is no one right way to be happy, but I do believe there are things that can be done that bring more happiness to you. 

There is a phrase that says "You can't pour from an empty cup." I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own self, their desires, their goals. I believe that this has to happen alongside others, though. No one person is ever truly alone, and having family and supportive friends will make your journey more memorable. If you're too focused on the happiness of others or of making other people's goals happen, you are likely to lose your sense of self and lose sight of personal goals. People can take advantage of you, projects can fail to lift off the ground, and you could be left not knowing what to do when the goal is achieved. 

I think being a tad selfish is okay. It's important to help your fellow man and your community. But your happiness should come first. You won't be able to help other people in vulnerable situations if you are stressed or depressed. Your health can be affected as well. 

All that said, happiness is never guaranteed. But it can also be found anywhere and at anytime. Now as an adult, I have sparks of happiness throughout my day in the form of text conversations, a nice lunch, getting home at a decent hour, a package at my doorstep, saying hello to my neighbors. I focus on my goals and pursue them free of fear of what I "should" do. When I'm well rested and have time off, I try my best to volunteer in my community. I find organizations that I believe in and donate my time or money to help them out. I wouldn't be able to do such things if I was too focused on something or someone else. I've been taken advantage of in the past and told that I need to sacrifice my self for the sake of others. During that period of my life, I was unwell, both physically and mentally. I was struggling financially and was trying to find a way out. 

Now I have boundaries towards where I focus my efforts and my overall health has improved. I was able to achieve some longstanding goals of mine and that accomplishment ushered in a new period of happiness and wellbeing in my life. That happiness and lack of stress allowed me to heal my relationship with others and with my community. Now, whenever I have a chance I'm able to focus a bit on other people's happiness without feeling burnt out or taken advantage of. None of that would have happened if I allowed myself to continue to put the needs and desires of other people in front of my own. 


