From a young age, most of us are taught how to compete to win.  Whether through sports, board games, or schooling, we've all been conditioned to do better than our peers as the means to great success.  But are competition and beating our peers really the greatest path to success?  Or, could it be, that cooperation and teamwork are really the ultimate tools to winning in life?

Sure, it feels great to use your strengths to defeat an opponent or succeed at a task.  But what if your opponent is better than you, or you have limited task experience?  This is when cooperation and teamwork will drive you to even greater successes.  Working with a variety of talented and smart people, you can learn from their knowledge and experience and also contribute your own strengths.  These different persepectives will make your team more creative, stronger, and ultimately more successful.
  
You might hear the argument that competition is the law of nature, or similarly, only the strong survive.  Sure, you may get stronger and smarter while competing against opponents who are better than you.  But, there will always be a cap on your progress.  You'll always run into someone who can do it better.  If you cooperate and work as a team, however, you can build off of each other's strengths to form an unbeatable unit that will continue to grow and evolve as you successfully complete tasks and challenges.  Take the recent development of the COVID-19 vaccine as an example.  We all know how competitive the pharmaceutical industry is, with huge corporations working in secret to beat their competition to the next great breakthrough.  However, when the world needed them to save us from COVID-19, they quickly threw competition aside and began working together find an effective vaccine.  The result was multiple highly safe and effective vaccines developed in record time.

In the end, the collective knowledge and abilities of a team working together will outweigh the advantages of competition.  Sharing experience leads to more comprehensive results than working in secret to be the first or best.
