Have you ever bought anything just because you could not stop yourself from getting it? A new pair of jeans or a new shirt even though you have a closet full of clothes? The lastest cell phone, even though yours still works? If so, you have likely engaged in a materialistic action. Materialism is when a person wants to obtain more, not for actually needing more, but purchasing for purchasing's sake. This essay will describe my position on materials, give arguments both for and against my postion, and will conclude summarizing the points this essay has made. 

Given the nature of the modern interconnected society we live in, materialism is more of unavoidable byproduct of being a member of society, and it helps keep society going. Living in a capitalistic society, we are meant to be consumers. By purchasing more, we are helping to keep people employed. For example, the unneeded new pair of jeans mentioned in the beginning of this essay, not only gives the salesperson in the store a job to sell you the jeans, but it gives a driver a job to drive the jeans from a warehouse to the store, it gives the people in the warehouse a job, it gives those involved in the shipping of the jeans from overseas, or elsewhere within the United States, a job, and it gives the people who were responsible for dying the denim, cutting and stitching it together a job. All of these people are able to provide for themselves and their families with the income they earn in their jobs. Moreover, in the cyclical nature of capitalism and materialism, all these employees, will also go out and buy things, being materialistic and wanting things for themselves. In addition to providing jobs for people, materialism can also help provide happiness for people. While there is the saying "money cannot buy happiness", spending money on material goods, can bring happiness. For example, buying a new tv or new DVD to watch with your family, or even going out to the movies, gives you time spent with family. Spending money on a vacation, gives you a chance to broaden your horizons, get rid of stress, and make memories that can last a lifetime. All of these help us to live a good, happy life.

It is true that materialism has some downsides. One good argument against materialism is that some people feel the need to spend what they cannot, so they can appear to be well-off in comparison to others. This popular problem has been called by the saying "keeping up with the Joneses".  A person sees their neighbor, cousin, friend, whomever, with a new car, a new phone, wearing new clothes everytime they see them, and it causes them to spend more in order to keep up appearances with those people. What comes from that is one of the negative downsides of materialism, which is debt. Debt, specifically consumer debt (i.e. credit card debt) is a large problem in the United States and it is directed related to materialism. Another good argument against materialism is the effect that it has on the environment. While it is possible to purchase many things made in one's own country, given the basic economic law of comparable/competitive advantage, countries are going to produce what is in their best interest to do so. What this translates into in the real world is that most often clothing and electronics, the examples used in this essay, are made and assembled in developing countries. These countries often do not abide by international environmental standards and even when they do, that means your new pair of jeans, or new phone, is shipped nearly halfway around the world to get to you, causing pollution every step of the way. 

In conclusion, while the arguments against materialism are strong, and debt and environmental concerns are something that one should be aware of when being materialistic, materialism offers benefits, too. Materialism allows us to help others have jobs and provide for their families, and importantly, it can help us to be happy ourselves. Given that, one should be aware of the detrimental aspects of materialism, but then also enjoy the benefits modern society and materialism affords us, and continue to purchase things to keep others employed, and ourselves happy. 

