I will be writing about the if people are more successful with cooperation or by competition. I will show the many ways that this is different and how people acheive this.

There are alot of people in the world today that only focus on competition for example I will only feel worthy if I constantly put myself in the competitive mind. This is why we need to learn to balance the way we thing. I when you become more cooperative you learn to be honest and and produce more positivty in your life. 

I myself have never been competitive because I feel we should give people a chance and not be ugly sometimes being competitive can get you no where and make people not feel worthy. The thing about being cooperative is you will teach the mind to not focus on the negative of not winning all the time but to be more successful in your accomplishments. It is okay to loose and not always feel like you have to have that power over people like look at me I am always a winner. I believe that was should always be humble in all that we do.

In conclusion we are all human and we can make mistakes but being cooperative gives you more to believe in yourself. I have always learned to be confident in my abilities that I have learned over the years. To focus on being the best that we can be in the goal in life.

This is a very great subject to go on in life and live to the fullest everyday. My life is so fullfilling when I can focus on the positive things in everyday life. I also believe you should be only competitive when it is necessary but never to be mean or nasty about it. I hope that this writing has helped you understand what is most important in life it's great to be successful but in a humble and caring way. The motivations in life are to set goals not what can I do to win win win. I believe we humans are in the most competitive world at this time which is not a way to think. I was always taught that it was okay to not be competitive we will not always win but we will be great in all that we do.

In my second conclusion is that we are such a big world that it is nice to be humble and root on for others when they are not confident and down on the task that they do. The world needs to believe they can and they will be successful in all that comes our way. We can accomplish all things if we focus on being great and humble at what we a capable of. Some people are taught from there parents that you should just win all the time but we should not think this way. I have come far in my life by staying humble about all I can do if I don't do great it's okay learn to slowly and confidently to regain that confidence. I hope that I have given an insight on how the words compare to each other and to not be focused on just one. We are capable of changing our minds on the way we are thinking to make us feels better and acheive so much in the world so be that confident person that you are! Have a wonderful day and stay on track in this caotic world!


