Since the stone age, it seems humans have been materialistic.  Even as the first humans were creating tools needed for their every day life they were also making jewlery and other things that people would barter for to just own.  Materialism has been around forever. Is it any wonder that is materialism is even more prominent in the modern age? And knowing this, does this make us less as a society? Should we condemn ourselves for being so materialistic?

In this day and age, materialism is everywhere.  Social media has increased the need for things; even those things we really don't need.  Instagram influencers make everything seem like it is so importnt to have every item that we can get from Amazon right now.  We need it right now.  But do we really? And what do these influencers do with all the products they get from different compainies that send them free things? I read an article on Google, where a woman lived in an apartment building with a highly known influecner that threw out expensive items that she received from well known companies.  I definitely believe there should be some critiquing on her way of dealing with materialism.  If you don't want it, why throw it out? That seems to be a very entitled way of dealing with something.  We should look into ways of teaching those that sharing our materials we no longer want is the best way to help our world stay here longer.  And we were always taught sharing is the right thing to do anyways.  

I can even say I have been sucked into the feeling of having to have things right then as I see them on the different social media platforms.  Having ADHD, I have a serious shopping problem.  I buy things because I get this strong urge that I need that dish draniner right then to make my life so much better.  But it never really makes life easier.  So does materialism have risks associated with it when it comes to my mental illness? Maybe.  It is just too easy to get and buy things nowadays.  Our way of life has made materialism more dangerous than it used to be 20 or even 30 years ago.   Our environment is suffering from humans' love of having things that aren't sustainable and our desire to not feel bad about ourselves over it. 

Many years ago, people started developing more ways to create ways to get around besides just horse and buggy.  Cars, trucks, airplanes, trains, etc started popping up everywhere.  And people decided they had to have one.  Those that could afford it, would buy more than one because it seemed to be a standing in the communitiy if you could afford to have your own vehicles to get around town.  But the more we gained the more our Earth suffered.  Climate change began and changed all of our world for the worse.  Many people have tried  to help combat this with arguing with those in charge that we need to curb our materialism or fast fashion, and try to recycle more.  But most people, espeically in higher leadership roles, ignored this.  Why? Because no one wants to feel uncomfortable and feel bad about themselves.  So they buy more stuff or create usless things that destroy what is most important but dare others to judge them. 
We as a society need to do better.  We need to give up our obsession with always feeling good about oursleves and tak a long hard look at each other.  We need to critize ourselves and those in power about why we need everything right now.  Modern society needs to start being tough on ourselves to break free of this materialistic rut we are in so we can help those that truly need the important things: water, clean air, sustaniablity of life; or I fear we won't be here long enough to enjoy all those things we collected in dedication to our materialism gods. 
