One of the goals for most people is to be happy, but how does one find happiness and where does it come from?  Two common sources of happiness are found in pursuing one's own goals and helping others achieve their goals. Although these are both reasonable methods to find happiness, it is clear that pursuing one's own goals is most likely to be successful.

People are generally focused on their own enjoyment and health.  This is reflected in the common saying that we are all the star in our own stories.  We learn to define our goals and dreams in early childhood, when our parents encourage us to walk, then talk, to earn good grades and find good friends and be good friends to others. This mentality continues into adulthood as we strive to have good careers, the best children or the fastest 5K.  By setting goals, we give ourselves purpose in life and find personal satisfaction.  

Another advantage of focusing on ourselves is that we can change and redefine our dreams as we meet or struggle to reach our milestones.  This puts us in charge of our own happiness.
Completing our goals allows us to be comfortable and proud of ourselves and secure in our own abilities.  By being comfortable and happy with ourselves we are then able to focus on others.  

A worthwhile pursuit is to help others define and achieve their happiness.  There are myriad ways to do this, through volunteerism, financial contributions and political activism.  No doubt anyone would be happy to see someone else succeed and to be part of that success would be rewarding.  However, by making one's own happiness depend on someone else is risky and relies too much on others to be as interested and willing to work towards their happiness as you are willing to work for them.  In addition, if others are aware of your need for them to success they may feel guilty or ashamed if they are unsuccessful, thereby ruining the happiness of you both.      

A better option would be combining these two paths to happiness and setting one's goals around helping others, thereby finding happiness by completing your own goals by working with others to complete theirs'.  Working towards well-defined, reasonable personal goals are the best option to reach personal happiness. 


