Moderen society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Materalism is an important part of society that can assist in carrying on traditions, meaning, and lifestyles in future generations. However, material collection must be self-regualted as it can become hazerdous if items are horded. 

Today, we find materials such as jewlery and items of clothing from old civilizations that help us better understand how life previously was and assist in scientific understanding and developments, such as the theory of evolution. If we were to reduce materalism and downsize our posessions and spending to the extreme, there may be no reminance of our huminization left for future generations to locate and study. 

Materalism is important to define ourselves as individuals, such as having our own fashion statements and hobbies. However, extreme materialism, such as hording can be dangerous and unsafe. It is important to self-regulate the amount of materials that a person has in order to prevent hazerdous situations and clutter. Studies have shown that an organized and clean environment can help in mood regulation and overall health. An individual should find a balance between maintaining the items and materials that bring them joy versus the items that are causing clutter and disorganization. 

In a television show released on the streaming platform, Netflix, a home-organizing expert states that individuals should analyze their items based on joy. If an item brings a person joy, that item should be kept. If the person does not feel joy while reviewing the item, the item should be donated or discarded. This approach allows a person to ensure that the materials that are in their home are items that improve their mental health and wellness, rather than past items that lead to clutter and consume more space than their emotional or financial value.

Materalism should not be critized in modern society. Materialism is an important aspect of our society that allows us to represent ourselves as individuals and will assist in carrying on the story of our generation int he future. It is important that individuals are able to self-regulate and maintain safe levels of materials in their home. Without materialism, traditions and lifestyles could be lost forever. 
