appearances are often mistaken for reality for many reasons. first, we see things first before we really "see" them. what i mean by that is that we often see things subconciously. For example, if somebody is talking non-sense, if they have a pretty face and they look good, then we tend to spend longer focusing on them, even if we conciously disagree with them. 
have you ever seen an ugly person promoting something? they have to look favorable. also, we tend to prefer things in our own demographics. even if we say we don't, we uncounciously do. 

This is the idea that first impressions are the most important. If you show up to a job interview looking sharp and having a professional sense, somebody is much more likely to hire you even if you don't exactly know all the finer points of what you're talking about. Now, think what happens if somebody shows up for a professional job interview and they come in with dirt on their face, torn jeans, and a stretched out V neck shirt? doesn't this really make for a good first impression? The interviewer now knows things about you before you even open your mouth to speak. 

Let's extrapolate this idea to politicians, entertainers, social media influencers, or anybody else in the public eye.  if they look good, we want to explore what they're selling, wether it be political ideologies, products, etc. What they are really selling is themselves. this has a profound effect on people. people are more willing to buy from somebody that they trust. by "buy" i mean listen, purchase, hear out, etc. What we think we see may not really be what we are getting. For example, do you trust something more when it comes from the mouth of somebody better looking? Even if they are a politicain, who are notorious for not being able to be trusted, we still trust them more. This holds true in not only politics, but in sales. Would I purchase a car from somebody who is bored to be there, looks aweful, smells dreadful, and has a bad attitude? probalby not. The opposite holds true in many cases, more obviously in sales though, but can also be in politics. I am much more likely to purchase a car from somebody, who looks at me, is excited, knowledgeable, happy to be there, smells good, and looks sharply dressed. 

This holds true for products too. Their pretty packaging easily distracts us from the actual product. this is really true for anything being sold. Why do you think packages of seeds don't just have a picture of the seed, they have pictures of the beautiful flowers that they'll become, or the vegetables that you can expect to grow from them, even if your reality after you grow them is distored. If you purchase seeds to grow giant cucumbers and the ones on the package are the size of your forearm, you maybe grossly disappointed when the ones that you get end up being only as long as your hand. but why did you buy them in the first place? they're pretty pictures and brightly colored packaging. 

Essentially, then can be taken right back to politics and public figures. many of them don't do a good job. they have to look good and sound good. they have to be able to speak well, even if they don't have a clue. we listen to them as they speak but it's much easier to listen to somebody even if we dont' agree with their viewpoints, if they look pretty. 

this conversly holds true too, somebody may make a really good president, but they may not look like we want them to. This can often lead to discounting them even before we've hear them out. they may have lots of good things to say, but we discount them because we don't like the way that they look or their mannerisms. 

I dare anybody to find me a situation where a car salesman that smells, wears torn clothing, and had a distasteful attitude and is generally an all around jerk, sell more cars than somebody who personable, smells and dresses well, and generally looks decent. it just doesn't happen often, of course there's always exceptions, but rule of thumb, is that it's much easier to sell things or products if the person and the product looks good. how do you think something like the pet rock ever did well?

All in all this idea that something, or someone, has to look good can be exapanded into all facets of our lives. this stretches from products, or politicians, to social media influencers, as well as just about ever other aspect of our lives. every person on tv has to look good, unless they are acting as an ugly person, otherwise they generally fail, or at least aren't as successful as somebody who is good looking and personable. its so sad that in society now, even though we say that they don't, looks have everything to do with it. do you know anybody who advertises weight loss products who is currently overweight? no, of course not, they used the product to loose weight. this is just the way that are society has gone, as materialistic as we are. 

