We've all seen it in sports, education and in careers. People achieve more success by cooperation with a touch of competition than by competition alone. 

Success is reaching personal goals, whether those goals be fame, fortune, career enhancement or something more personal such as improving your running distance so that you can complete a running marathon. But success does not have to involve purely competitive means. Success does not just mean that a person has a large amount of money in a bank account. A good deal of being recognized as successful is in your kindness towards others, your co-workers, teammates, classmates, etc. 

Competition is good for personal incentive, but not if a person is using and abusing others to reach a warped version of success.  Those kinds of goals are selfish. A person can be competitive with him/her self--reaching further, attaining one goal and setting another. The competition does not need to be against anyone else. 

Success involves helping out teammates, work mates and class mates. Success is being strong, consistent and honest in the game, working together to complete a work assignment or helping classmates study for a big test.  In the classic Christmas movie, "It's a Wonderful Life," Jimmy Stewart's character was not successful by way of wealth but instead by his intensely good heart towards helping others. His house might have been in need of repair and he was nowhere near the goals he had set for himself, but his family was happy and his friends were many and true.

Think about participants in a marathon. Someone will trip and fall. Others may jump over, run around, but continue on because they want to place as high as they can. There's always someone who stops their own running to help the fallen person. Their goal of success is more about completing the race, not necessarily placing in the race, and being kind and helpful along the way.

Teams have the same sort of task. Everyone wants to win, but there is always a winner and always a loser. Competition is good, in this case, against the other team. The use of underhanded tactics, however, such as elbowing or tripping, is cheating. It doesn't mean that a team is unsuccessful if they didn't win the game. They might be learning each other's strengths and weaknesses and figuring out better strategies for themselves as a team. Don't forget that building each other up after a loss is a form of being successful. You never have to stretch the truth to build another person up. Instead of saying, "You did really great," when they didn't, a successful person will focus on a specific great thing, such as, "The way you bounce ideas off of us is really helpful in sparking our ideas." or "I liked the way you threw the ball to Joe when you realized you couldn't make the shot." 

Although there is such a thing as friendly competition, it should be used to spur yourself to be better than you were--not to prove that you're better than others. Success is being proud of yourself at the end of the day, knowing that you did your best in reaching your own goals while being nice along the way.
