Cooperation and competition are often seen as rivaling methods to success. Everyone takes part in both through school, work, sports, and everyday life. Both are needed in order to function in society, but which is more effective? For the greater good, cooperation is the best way to ensure fairness and equity, while in competitive areas, the spoils go to the winner. Highly competitive people tend to go far in some workfields, but attention need be given to the animosity that can arise between competing forces, whether they be a team or an individual. While competition can be used by small groups to seize power and achieve success, cooperation is the only real way to achieve overall societal equanimity.

 Sports, for example, differ greatly in their use of the two methods. Solo sports, such as car racing, tend toward the competition side-but where would the drivers be without their crew? Are there any sports in which cooperation does not play a part? Even the most competitive solo athletes rely on trainers, physical therapists, sponsor companies, etc. There is no competition without cooperation in the world of sports: who else are they competing against if not a cooperative opponent? Those who favor competition will always need other individuals and groups to legitimize their efforts. 

Competition in the financial sphere can be particularly harmful. While having competing products and services is an important tool in keeping innovation alive, it becomes increasingly difficult for smaller competitors to exist in a capitalist system. Monopolies are good for neither society at whole nor the individual, unless that individual is one of the very small number of executives which are making direct profit from their companies. Competition without cooperation nearly always ends in the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer. For example, if college were free, jobs that are high paying but require extensive schooling could be performed not only by those who already have a great deal of monetary support, but also by those most qualified and passionate. We lose out on great doctors, lawyers, engineers, etc. because of the highly competitive nature of school scholarships. As it is now, only the wealthy and the very lucky are able to fill those roles, which is a great loss to society.

The question of whether "people" achieve success more easily through competition or cooperation depends largely on if the "people" being refrenced are individuals or the whole of society, whether they are poor or wealthy, whether they are able bodied or disabled, black or white, etc. Therefore, it is only just that cooperation be the main method utilized by governing bodies. Perhaps is the playing field is leveled, competition could be a more equitable process, especially regarding professional achievements. While competition will always exist, cooperation is the most reliable method to achieve both individual and group success over time.
