You have to be confident and happy on your own before you can truly make someone else happy. How do you execpt to make someone feel happy and good about themselves if you yourself don't feel that way or experienced it? You can give advice and guidance but you will never really make them feel as happy as you can until you feel that way yourself.

Making yourself happy and foucusing on personal goals in an important part in life. It can help you suceed and move forward with your life. making it to those goals are even more important to your happieness because it's somthing you want to do. With that being said it should make you happy, if not then it's your own fault. You have made your our decision.

I enjoy making others happy but it doesn't change my thoughts on myself. I love giving advice and helping people find their happiness aslo but sometimes i can't find my own. I can personally tell i'm not giving out my full potentol t0 make someone happy when I myself do not feel happy! When I am happy and feeling good the words just flow right out of my mouth and I am able to make others feel just as good as i feel! 

Sometimes It makes me feel so happy and good about myself to make others feel happy. Doing good deeds makes my heart feel good. I dont know who doesn't like that feeling. If they dont they are probably just putting on a front to protect a hard rough image they are projecting to fit in with a certain crowd. I often get excited and extreamly happy when it comes to makeing someone happy or making their day. I have done this to make myself happy before. I love seeing the looks on their faces. It gives me a since of piece and comfort! You can see that it gives them the same feeling. For me people are easy to read. So if i see someone upset or unhappy I usually take it upon myself to  try and help them with the situation. If i can't seem to help them i simply appologize and leave them be. Some times you just can't make others appy no matter how hard you try. You should never waiste your energy on someone like that. It can alter your mood and make you constantly think you are the problem or you did somehing wrong. You have to be strong enough to know when to leave the conversation and leave them be. Not everyone can be please!

Making yourself happy in the world we live in today is harder than it was a decade ago in my opinion. The cost of living has risen to the ultimate high and that can cause alot of stress which then makes you not happy. So what do you do to make these situtions  better for yourself and make youself happy? I like to imageine world piece and happiness thoughout thw world and always have it on my mind it is a chouce you make. If you want to be happy that is your choice. If not well, that's your own fault. Fix yourself or your situations and make your self happy. What is getting angry going to do? Answer is nothing. It fixes nothing and makes us all unhappy.

Finding someone you can talk to on a daily can make you happy. As well as the person you have desided to spend time with that day. If you dont enjot their compant then thats your own fault. You shouln't have went with them or agreed to the arangement to hang out. If they dont find if fun or happy about the situation that its also their fault. You are litterly in charge of your own happiness. 
It is very important to focuse of your happiness! Spreding negative engery will just cause unhappiness everywhere.  It can also make everyday life more enjoyable and peceful. 
So all in all I guess i think its both ways and equally important. My views can be both sided sometimes. Pros and cons are always impotant to me in anything I do decsion making. Happiness can impoove humanity!! Make our everyday lives better. Send good and positive messages to the world!!! Happiness is very impotant in EVERYONE'S lives!!!!


