     There is debate as to what produces happiness.  Some are sure that focusing on your own ambitions and interests will ensure happiness, while others teach that striving to help others or making the world a better place will ultimately result in more happiness.
     Personally, I side strongly with the latter argument.  I can safely say that I've tried implementing both strategies in my own life and have found personal success somewhat lacking in the happiness department.  Perhaps as humans we are wired to find pleasure in bettering our community and environment.  We are herd animals, after all.
     My arguments for finding happiness through helping others and the world at large are largely from personal experience, as I have no knowledge of formal studies in this area.  I have put time, money, and effort into obtaining a college degree in a highly respected field, and climbed the success ladder in that field.  I obtained patents, awards, and accolades, and was well-respected among my peers.  I made money in surplus of what I needed to be comfortable.  Yet, I was lonely, and often felt an inner dissatisfation with life.  There have been other chapters of my life where I had less success and less money, but have found a richer, happier life.  These were the times in my life where I reached out to those around me and found ways to help, lead, mentor, or give back.  This created deep joy, excitement, and a sense of purpose.  I don't know if there is one definition for happiness, but I would certainly call these my happy years.
     To be sure, there are many people on this planet who will disagree with me.  Honestly, who am I to say that I am right and they are wrong?  Happiness is in the eye of the beholder.  I can only comment on what I have observed.  I have seen people in the public eye skyrocket to fame only to burn out on drugs or deteriorating mental health.  We've all known the rich, misery older relative who is the most miserable person we've met.  Money certainly doesn't equal happiness, and fame is thrillingly toxic at best in most people.  So I must stand by my assessment.
     I doubt there will ever be a scientific equation for acheiving happiness.  The best we can do is what works best for us, and everyone has to figure that out for themselves.  I will always push people to try caring about things outside of themselves and to contribute to the greater good, because I firmly believe this is the way to go, both for the world and for personal happiness.
