In today's economy, the term "survival of the fittest" is the best way to describe success and achievement. With the market bearing free entry to anyone who wants to start a business, the reality is that one gets ahead due to competition and not cooperation. People and companies are always thinking of new ideas they can patent because something that hasn't been thought of yet will give them a chance to be first to market. Working together has its limitations, especially when it comes to acquiring wealth, if an individual comes up with an original idea that is successful all by himself he will reap 100% of the rewards. On the other hand, if a team were to come up with a product that succeeds together, then the ownership and rewards would be split up amongst the number of people on the team. We can see that by using currency and wealth as a metric, competition yeilds more universal success than cooperating with others. 

If we look back to medieval times, countries would wage wars against each other and compete for ownership over land and properties. The idea is the same as it was back then, whoever has an edge in competition will become more successful in life and live higher in our economic ladder. Think back to how kings were obsessed with overtaking other countries, the benefits that would come from it such as more crops to feed their people and a larger army to enhance their own protection. Wealth is defined not only by the amount of currency one holds, but the metric of success they have in life, which comes directly from competing with each other. Boxing, one of the most lucrative sports in the world, is defined by its inherent competitive nature. The more a boxer wins, the more doors unlock in his career (higher fight purses, sponorships) and that even goes levels higher after becoming a world champion. In these two examples, we can see that competition unlocks the door to success in the world.

The desire to compete is in us from the day we are born, the only thing that differs between people is how that competitive drive develops throughout the course of growing up. Some people lose a bit of that competitive drive throughout their life due to their circumstances, whether it's a shot in their confidence from getting bullied in school or being told they aren't good enough by peers. In such cases, teamwork and working together can be very beneficial to the mental health and development of a person. Having a support system enables those who have lost their competitive drive to have a degree of success in life, with the help of others. The only drawback is they wouldn't reach their maximum potential, had they the confidence to make full use of their competitive nature. 

In conclusion, to succeed in this world businesses and individuals must exercise their innate competitiveness. With enough motivation and a plan, those who edge out in competitiveness will reach the highest of wealth and success. A competitive drive is within us all from birth, but our mastery of this skill and the ability to utilize it to its full potential will come from our circumstances and development as we grow up. For people, it is imperative to look for opportunities to edge out others in the the evergrowing market place. On the other hand, those who fall behind in their development can get use from cooperation and teamwork, but the result and success they obtain in life would be far less than working competitively against each other. The world has a place for both factions, but the benefits lead us to the same conclusion: people, in general, will achieve more success by the means of competition. 
