Materialism is often criticized, people who are labeled "materialistic" are perceived as vain, self-centered and shallow. However, the buying and selling of goods and services drives our economy, employs millions of people and contributes to the general welfare of the population. So how can this tension between the criticism of materialism and the necessesity of commerce for the survival of civilization be harmonized? The answer is that the mere practice of buying to acquire posessions is not necessarily materialistic, but rather the singular focus on that rather than other, more important practices. 

At its base, all persons needs posessions of some sort. Clothes are maybe the most basic possession that can't be collectivized. If you're wearing clothes they are in your posession, and no one else is wearing them. But in our day, it's clear that many people buy far more posessions than they need. Insofar as our culture encourages excessive aquisition, it should be criticized for being materialistic. General pop culture in the United States praises the ability to acquire excess goods, often in the guise of hobbies. For example, some men have turned their morning shave into a hobby, buying multiple razors, soaps, aftershaves, balms and other products to bring some sort of new pleasure to what is otherwise a routine practice. Industries spring up around this hobbification of the mundane, and now there are artisan shaving soap companies, specialist razor makers, and hundreds of varieties of razor blades available to try. This brings improvement to the practice of shaving, but can also lead to materialism in those whose drive to acquire more shaving supplies leads them to store up way more equipment than they'll ever need. So there is both value and danger in this hobbification. 

Ultimately, materialism is a matter of the heart. Are you neglecting the important duties in your life in the pursuit of material goods? All of us have financial, familial, work and social duties that can be easily neglected in the pursuit of more stuff. As much as the culture encourages this materialism, it should be criticized, but only so far as it enourages these negative practices. There is much value in the development of products and services that is driven by the aquisition of goods. 
