In the English language there are several sets of terms that typically mean the same thing - Type A (Personality) vs. Type B. Extroverted and introverted. A 'team player' and one who 'works best alone'. Sometimes even a single adjective is enough to communicate the idea of how someone performs to others - determined, weak-willed, aggressive, submissive. But despite our intense desires to label and sort into functional boxes - "This person is great to have around others," "This person, you just have to let them do their own thing" - do individuals have specific learning ability based off of their socialization tactics and skills? Or is it a one-size-fits-all, "You just need to try harder to get along with others" reality?

The fact that learning styles (a "visual learner", or perhaps someone who "learns by doing") vary greatly between people has been a subject of bane for many teaching practicers and employers - they are keen on having these individuals reach their goals (or perhaps, the outlined goals set for them) as soon as possible, with as many students or employees reaching the finish line at top speed. Unfortunately, learning styles differing from individual to individual are real. Though someone may indeed attempt to change what is most motivating to them - competitive action between colleagues or the more softer cooperation, this usually only results in the true self being masked.

Even in fictional literature, the idea that all stories must fit a predetermined preconstruction of plot events reflect the idealized notion that competition or adversity is the only true way to get over yourself and accomplish whatever it is you are expected to do. Visual media also contains this notion - the trope of a main character having a rival who pushes them to do their best, provide some lip-service "back and forth", get the audience to shallowly entertain the thought of which party they are truly rooting for - then wrapped up cleanly and promptly forgotten about.
But in my experience rivalry and competition has always plagued me. I become so adverse to the idea of failure, as opposed to striving for success (no matter how small), that I cease any effort in the process. I drop out, the task changes hands, the resulting gloating and berating from any involved party only serve to drill it further into my skul that I am incapable of tournamenting with another. This is because I couldn't see us as equals even in the beginning - how can the playing field be level if one runner is suspended and unnaturally clipped into the underground, immoveable? Better to let the professionals do the competing - the extroverts. The team players. Neurotics make terrible entertainment.

It's not as if true cooperation is perfect comparitively, either. While the idea of perfect teamwork surely tantalizes many, it so avoids the reality of what to expect of others & the self that it leads in failure at times - each failed relationship caused by the communicative breakdown of who is to do which chores, each school project having its workload distributed unevenly & the following resentment. Of course we can understand why people choose for competitive relations over amicable ones - at least you don't have to tolerate unrelated small talk with someone you are trying to beat. On the other end, for us more quiet types, it can often be easier to let the workload be uneven and do the bulk of it - for if you do your best work alone, how can you be distracted?

What of those who do not fit cleanly into either box - the true hermits? There are plenty numerous positions prime for someone sickly antisocial, but are they to be deemed incapable of accomplishing their goals should they neither cooperate nor compete with others?
It boggles the mind - and this is the prime factor driving people to choose between being comfortable between competing or cooperating. The lesser of two evils. 
"Hey, at least we're not like those guys that can't even pretend to relate to others."
