When humans first walked the planet in primal years, all experiences and survival were driven by one simple factor; Competition. Today, when looking at the social interactions of all life on Earth we can see how competition plays a significant role in shaping success. Many would argue that to achieve success, competition must be observed. This argument, though accurate in simple and archaeic situations, is simply not the ultamite truth in our modern society and world that we live in today. In reality, most success is obtained through direct cooperation. As we have evolved, both as individuals and a society, increased cooperation has led to and will lead to more success.

Humans are by nature very social creatures. While competition is certainly a driving force in many interactions, true lasting success can only be obtained through cooperation. This is illustrated through almost all modern day successes in our society. For example, in the popular team sport of soccer it has been proven that success can only happen through great levels of cooperation. While there are teams with many incredible individual players that thrive off of direct competition with their teamates, their team as a whole often falls short of ultamite prizes due to the lack of cooperation. Only teams that truly work together in the highest levels of cooperation obtain the highest levels of success in the sport. Furthermore, all of the greatest structures in our world are only in exitense thanks to the cooperation of those that worked together to build them. No city was designed, built, and raised by a single person. Cooperation between several experts is required as no one person has enough knowledge and experience to build a successful city. This process takes a considerable level of cooperation for this to happen, and without said cooperation, success would have been impossible. 

While cooperation does often lead to a greater chance of succes, some would argue that this is not always the case. For example, great companies such as Apple or Tesla came about and were forged through intense competition. It is no secret that Steve Jobs and Elon Musk have faced a great deal of competition with competitors. They used this competition to better their products and forge and more successful business in the process. However, while competition certainly served as the catalyst for this success, it can be argued that cooperation ultamitely led the success of these companies. Steve Jobs and Elon Musk alone did not create their businesses solo, but worked with and surrounded themselves with valuable cooperative team members. It was through this cooperation that true success was obtained.

Competition no doubt has its place in helping to forge success. However, it is simply a small piece of a larger puzzle that leads to success. Overall, cooperation is more likely to help people achieve success. Humans have proven this time and time again. To truly succeed in the world today, cooperation is a necessary compenent to any success story.
