The Joneses--oh, the Joneses, that mythical family that we're all trying to keep up with. Nothing causes more distress than trying to buy our way into happiness and contentment. Our modern society is built on Materialism. Materialism is the root of much of our unhappiness, and until we can learn to be happy with less, it is only fair that critics continue to place the blame for our cultural dissatisfaction on materialism. 

We see ads everywhere we go offering the ideas of freedom, success, family love, stability...but in the end, these are just ads, and what they offer are products. And those products cost money. Companies are trying to sell ideals that should be FREE for a price. And that price lines the pockets of corporate CEOs who buy more and more luxurious goods. And then those goods end up being idolized by the poor schlups who bought their products in the first place. This is the viscious cycle of materialism. Materialism only serves to make the rich richer and keep the poor at bay. 

Materialism also causes mental anguish for those who just can't afford to keep up. When you Jennifer Anniston wear a Gucci dress and you just "have to have it." There is nothing special about that dress, except the illusion of beauty that it is given by the celebrity that models it. The consumer keeps buying, but never really achieves possession of what the product entails. Buying a bag that Michelle Obama has carried does not give you the power of Michelle Obama, it merely creates wealth for the manufacturer. Those who buy those items are rarely in a position to afford them. They keep spending, hoping to buy into the success of someone else, but in the end, they are literally poorer for it.

In addition to the waste of money, we are wasting our precious Earth. Our trash cans are overflowing with products that were once popular, but are now considered trash because they just don't fit in with the look of today. Hold on to something long enough, and it will be valued as vintage, however, the majority of things that are bought today will end up in a landfill in 5 years. Even new electronics and furniture have shorter and shorter lives. A refrigerator used to be a purchase that could be repaired for decades. Now, at the first sign of trouble, it's cheaper just to throw it out and buy a new, better one. We are buying ourselves into a future where we just buy ourselves out of any problem. 

Don't believe those who would say that without materialism, we would lose all economic progress. While there is a case for making sure business continues, in the grand scheme of things, it would be better for both the environment and our wallets if consumers focused more on products that last, than products that impress. There will always be room for business, but a healthy mentality towards consumption of goods would lead to a healthier society.

Modern society has a sickness, and that sickness is materialism. It would be better for the environment, our mental health, and the wealth of the poorest among us if we focused more on the things that matter, rather than the products that make believe they can sell us those things. 
