   How much is too much? This question can be applied to many aspects of what people consume and the possessions that they own. Many sources have noted that the amount that people spend on certain items and the amount of items that people own is way more than it has been in the past decades. For that reason, modern society should be criticized for being materialistic because of the amount of waste created and the mistreatment of workers creating these materials. 

    As people have consumed more and more items, companies have continued to produce more items and create waste. For instance, fast fashion companies have a tendancy to create cheap and low quality clothes based on what is trendy at the time. Whenever the clothes are no longer considered "in season" (or if there is a lower demand for certain clothes), some companies will get rid of the clothes in ways that are harmful for the environment. Even some of the consumers who are constantly buying from these fast fashion companies will get rid of and waste clothes just because they are no longer considered trendy. 

    Some people may argue that owning a certain items does not hurt anyone and should be left up to the consumer. However, certain companies have a history of mistreating their workers and paying their employees low wages. There have been instances where factory workers have been paid only a couple cents per hour, and were forced to work long hours without any breaks or compensation. While the consumers may not see the harm in supporting these businesses,  buying items from these companies only allows the companies to mistreat their workers. 

   Therefore, society should be criticized for their materialism. Consuming many items has made our problems with wasting things even greater, and it has allowed companies to continue abusing their employees. Although materialism isn't exactly a new problem, it would be beneficial for people to be more conscious about what they consume and how much they consume. 
