A young man was sitting alone at a counter during the time where segregation was legal. A group of white men surrounded him and told him to leave or they were going to hurt him. A group of bystanding African Americans saw the interaction taking place and went inside to assist the man who was about to be attacked. While the man very well could have been hurt or worse, through the cooperative efforts of his fellow people, he was able to persevere and avoid catastrophic damage to his life.

Cooperation has been shown to have many benefits in several aspects of life. One of these aspects is in education. With students having to take so many different classes during their course of study in the public and private education system, it is very difficult for every student to excel by themselves in all of their classes. Through teamwork, peer mentoring, and communicating in various ways you are allowing students who struggle, with the ability to excel in subjects they would have otherwise had difficulties in.

In sports, cooperation offers several benefits as well. When a pitcher is on the mound pitching to each batter, it is imperative that the pitcher and catcher work together and cooperate in order to effectively achieve the highest possibility of beating the other team in the game. The secondbaseman and shortstop must also work together with each other to effectively and efficiently turn a doubleplay. Each position player must work with the first baseman in order to record a force out. These examples and many other examples of cooperation can be found in each kind of athletic competition.

When it comes to romantic and professional relationships, cooperation is essential. In order to achieve large project completion rates, getting jobs done on time, and effectively serving client needs, professional cooperation is a vital necessity. Through cooperative efforts, businesses are able to progress and engage in revolutionary efforts that wouldn't be possible without the collaboration between professional colleagues. 

When it comes to romantic and platonic relationships, it is vital to the success of the relationship(s), that each person cooperate to develop an understanding of who the other person is, their likes and dislikes, how to respond to things, any past traumas, and several other areas of each other's lives. 

The absence of cooperation in these relationships spells catastrophy and doom. Without love, committment, understanding, and cooperation we will see relationships unnecessarily end. Cooperating with your loved ones is such a vital aspect of relationships and necessary in order for relationships to be successful.

When it comes to socioeconomic factors, we can see that when people give into competition and rivalry and split into definitive sides, we hinder our abilities to progress as a nation and in several cases, unnecessary violence, crime, and retaliation takes place that wouldn't ever come to fruition, had the groups simply cooperated together towards a common goal in efforts to improve, progress, and innovate the socioeconomic environment they live in. We see so much destruction and decay on the news, in the papers, and in our judicial system that is caused by rivalry and competition amongst individuals and groups.

While many would argue that competition is what produces the best results, it also brings a lot of unnessary strife and stress. When people compete with one another, they often feel they are not good enough or have never achieved enough to be worthy of praise. With long-term exposures to such traumatic experiences, you will, in several cases see the mental health of individuals decline to the point of being unable to effectively and efficiently perform their delegated duties due to the nature of competition.

Thanks to cooperative efforts among people, that man at the counter was able to avoid possibly losing his life. A woman trying to survive with her children during the Holocaust, grew up to be a great grandmother to a future generation, and the United States was able to see its first black president. These, among so many other things are just a few examples of what can be accomplished by working together. Let's look to the future together and see what amazing things we all can accomplish by working together.
