People are much more likely to be happy when they focus on their own personal goals and considering the happiness of others if it is relevant. The reason is that people feel happier when they feel more accomplished, and in most cases, that comes when a person is meeting or making progress on their goals. This concept can often overlap with the happiness and goals of others within a person's network, but this overlap is never guaranteed.

People who are accomplishing goals are usually happier as most people set goals based upon some desire which can be fulfilled. Often, these goals either directly or indirectly affect happiness. For example, if one person's happiness comes from a car collection, a job pay raise allows for more car purchases, increasing that person's happiness. On average, if a person's happiness is dependent solely on their own capability to access what makes them happy, their goals are rarely to the benefit of others.

However, for some people happiness exists in goals set which also happens to benefit humanity. Some people have desires of total altruism, which necessarily requires the benefit of others. In this way, these people are happiest when they are doing good work for others. This still exists as a personal goal for the altruistic person. Helping others is still the personal goal, regardless of the outcome. In the case of a person's desire for a functioning family unit, happiness may exist in helping other members achieve their goals, however even in this case the happiness exists as a function of completing a personal goal. 

Some may argue that the happiness of others will usually increase one's personal happiness, but other than those who are truly altruistic in nature, this won't be the case. At some point, a person will want to accomplish their own goals. They may want to help others first in order to gain more assistance with accomplishing their goals, but the end result will always be happier when their own goal is accomplished. Even in the case of the truly altruistic, their goals are still for personal happiness, however their happiness comes with the accomplishment of others.

Ultimately, true happiness is something that varies from person to person. Under most circumstances, the average person's happiness is dependent mostly on their ability to complete their own goals more than others. Some people may gain some additional satisfaction in the happiness of those close to them, but ultimately will always desire to complete their own goals eventually. Being unable to do so means a lack of fulfillment in life, leading to unhappiness in the end. One notable counterconcept may be when a person doen't have a goal to accomplish. In these cases, a person may learn through new experiences what personal goals they would like to accomplish. THey may derive what makes them happy from experiencing the happiness of someone else. This happens most often in youth as a person begins to really understand their place in the world, but even in this case the person will eventually go on to make their own happiness when they know what it is. 

Happiness is ultimately a difficult concept define. Most people set their own personal goals based upon what does make them happy. When a person knows what it is that makes them happy, they align goals based upon furthering that happiness. Those altruists who focus solely on the happiness of others are still making goals based upon their own happiness. Only in the case of a person who doesn't yet know where their happiness lies will the happiness of others come into main focus, as in this case a person is still discovering their happiness. Once that happiness is discovered, the person will be much more willing to singularly focus on that happiness goal to be accomplished. In almost all cases, people are more likely to be happy when they focus on their personal goals.
