   Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition? It is certainly an interesting question, and one that doesn't have an easy answer.
   Throughout our lives, we encounter many struggles and situations that require drawing upon our resources. Sometimes, those resources can be found within ourselves. Other times, it is imperative that we seek the help of others. Depending on the situation, one or both of these methods will need to be employed. Let's think a little bit about these situations.
   When faced with a problem that doesn't have a ready solution, we have to ask ourselves how to proceed. Many times, asking for help is the best way forward. There are things that can only be solved as a group. Being able to cooperate is an extremely valuable skill, because we are often not as strong alone as we are together. Take for example, moving to a new home. You have furniture and clothes, various possessions, electronics, etcetera. To carry all of that alone is quite a big job. Hopefully, you would have some friends or family that would be willing to help you complete your task! And how do we find those friends? By being helpful ourselves. By helping one another, we can insure that there's almost nothing we can't accomplish.
   Now, think about a situation where there are limited resources. Say, there's an available job, and several candidates that would suit it. How do we resolve this? Normally, we would look at the applicant's work history and such, to gain a clearer picture of the person most qualified for the job. This can be considered a form of competition. Our past accomplishments show how qualified we are for the job. Competition appears to be nature's way of finding out quickly who is the right person for the situation, by allowing the "winner" the spoils. This is how it is in the animal kingdom, and it exists in our modern world as well. Take the concept of capitalism, for an example. In our free market, the companies and entities that produce the most profit and "defeat" their rivals are the ones that are rewarded. Many people feel this is the best and most fair way to determine who is the best and most promising company. Through competing, we learn who is the strongest and has the most aptitude for solving the problem at hand.
   There are of course pros and cons to both approaches. Trying to run a marketplace where everyone works together would just result in something like a company. It would cease to be a market. Conversely, competing over who carries what during a move would make little sense. Only by working together can we reduce that burden. 
   It is my opinion that each method has it's place. We must remain flexible and ready to compete when necessary, and work together when it's most beneficial. Most of the time, I think, cooperation is the way to go. But without competition, we wouldn't have things like the sports that so many of us enjoy. It's intrinsic to humanity to want to compete and so, by leveraging that nature to our advantage, we can create systems that are objectively fair. Of course, there are many other considerations to make! The bottom line is that we should always seek to deal fairly with one another! 
   I feel that cooperation makes us more successful, but again, there is a place for competition. Even in competition, rules must be agreed upon through cooperation, making cooperation the superior way of finding success! Yes, I believe cooperation should be our focus and goal if we are to be successful. The United States' market wouldn't exist unless we all agreed that it should! 
   Hopefully, I've been able to give a little insight into my thought process about this interesting issue. Certainly some people value competition over cooperation, and that's ok! I only think it's important to recognize the benefits of both and to employ them fairly. Even the most competitve person would agree that fairness is the goal! Otherwise, it's not really a competition at all! So, let's work together to foster fair competition! That way we all win.
