  What a good question.  I would say many people have many different position on this subject.   I would have to say I am on the side of thinking that cooperation would make people achieve more success. I feel like with everything we do, if we have help from others, or when we help others, we are helping ourselves. 
  I chose the side of cooperation.  I believe that when we help people, and help others, we also help ourselves.  I feel like when you  help people you are already doing a great job.  Also, people who work together have better and more ideas.  We all think differently so I feel like that would make for more ideas to be made.  If I think one way and my neighbor thinks another, I would think that we would have more than one idea to choose from at the end.  When you help people I also feel like it puts out good karma in the world, and will eventually come back to you.
  I know some people would say that if you are competing against someone you will actually succeed more.  I wouldh have to counter that with you would only be able to use one side or one point of view.  I think that would make it hard to succeed when you only have one idea. The more ideas on the table the best chance to be able to do something that is awesome. I also feel like the better you will feel about helping people when you are doing it together.
  Here is an example.  Lets say you are moving and you have to move a large item, like a large chest of drawers.  You can try to move it yourself.  You might even move it yourself.  Now imagine that you had a partner to help.   They could help you move it and move it really faster than by yourself.  Also, lets say you get to a door.  You think it is not going to fit and get frustrated at the fact that you might not get it in the house.  But the person who was helping you though about a way to turn it to make it fit.  And it worked.  You two worked together and with his idea you figured out how to get it done.  That was a success.
  In closing, I agree that you can succeed either by competition or with cooperation from others.  But I feel like as a whole, we as a people succeed much more when we work together.  We can come up with new ideas to help ourselves and each other.  When we work together we all win. It makes a better world for everyone.
