These are my personal thoughts about happiness achieved through personal goals. I truely think its easeir to focus on your own personal happiness when you set goals. Goals give us something to strive for, but they also block out all the other distractions in our way. Setting goals isnt always easy, I used to think it was pointless to set a goal because I would never achieve them. I learned that you have to start small and work your way up to longer harder goals!
When im personally setting a goal for my own happiness, I like to chose one that empowers me but also helps the people around me. An example of this is saving money. I like to set a goal of how much money I want to save, and I will use that money to treat my self, or my child. Saving money to do somehting for myself makes me happy, and I feel that when im happy im giving my best personal self to being a parent. I always like to think a happy mom is best for my baby! Achieving goals is truly confidence and character building. Holding my self accountable for something I set out to do and followed through on gives me a great sense of pride. I also feel like im showing my son you can achieve anything you set your mind on. 
Saving money as a goal also keeps me focused on work and my budget. Being focused on my work cuts out distractions of spending money, thus for helping me complete my goals. My budget is heavily maintained by not going out and buying things I just dont need. Taking my child out for a treat with my saved money from my goal truly makes the both of us happy. Treating my son with money I have saved from my goal also shows him that things you want dont have to be bought now and can be saved for. He truly is learning goals set for the future is the smart and right decision.
In conclusion I find that focusing on my goal keeps me happy in my day to day life because I feel fuffiled and rewarded for having completed what I set out to achieve! My confidence and self worth has rised so high due to setting and following through with my goals. Setting goals used to be hard but I started with things that were small and achieveable and worked my way up to things I used to think were absolutely impossible! I would highly reccomend to anyone setting small goals everyday and working through them to build your own personal happiness!
