More success is achieved through cooperation than competition for several reasons. Cooperation among participants breeds sharing of information and this information can lead to the success of each individual. If each individual was competing with each other, they would be less likely to share information and would hold helpful information from others. Because of this, each person works independently and has no opportunity for feedback.

Through cooperation, there can be a free exchange of ideas and feelings that touch every aspect of a goal. Working with other people leads to different viewpoints and seeing things that one did not see before. Because of this, mistakes are more likely to be caught. By catching mistakes, success of the group is more likely to be achieved than if one was working alone. 

Working with other people also helped build networks. So in future projects, people are likely to trust one another more and are more likely to trust the other person can successfully complete their task. This way, they can focus on another area that needs attention. If people all trust their partners to complete their individual task, the group as a whole can focus on more glaring weaknesses. This leads to better time management and appropriation of tasks to the correct partner.

Thus, working together builds and fosters stronger relationships than lead to success. Competition only leads to safeguarding of important information where each person attempts to accomplish their own goals. During intense competition, one can also experience sabotage because each person has their own goals. If team goals are important to everyone, each person can work towards the team goal. People working together towards ancommon goal is better for everyone. It's hard enough trying to accomplish a task, but imagine trying to accomplish that task when people are trying to undermine you. This way, team work is the most important thing and everyone prioritizes the success of the group, which essentially is the success of each individual. EVeryone experiences growth this way and can use their experiences for success in the future. 
