Everyone is in pursuit of happiness, whether it be their own or someone elses. Some people find they are most happy when they help themselves, some find happiness by helping others, but humans are always looking for happiness in some form or another. We have even included this as a basic right in our Declaration of Independence along with the right to life and liberty. Happiness is objective and obviously different for everyone, but can people find more happiness by focusing on themselves or by trying to bring happiness to others?

I think people are more likely to find happiness by focusing on their personal goals. While making other people happy is a noble cause, sometimes these actions can become overwhleming and all consuming. I have always been a people pleaser, but doing so has brought more unhappiness than I ever recieved. My very being would change and warp to acheive something that I thought would make others happy. After a while I started to realize that focusing on what made me happy made it easier to make others happy. It is kind of like the saying that you can't help others until you help yourself. Giving without being happy yourself, leaves you empty and wanting more or always searching for the next "high" of pleasing others. I think it is highly possible to make one of your personal goals to bring happiness to someone else, but this shouldn't overshadow your own happiness. Ideally, I think the most happiness can be found by having a mix of focusing on personal goals and helping others. However, for many people I think it is difficult to find that fine line between too mucha nd not enough. 

Everyones persception of happiness is different, but if you aren't happy than I think it becomes infinitely harder for you to bring happiness to others. The more you search for it in others, the more you lose of yourself, until you have nothing else. I have learned from personal experience that focusing too much on others can have the opposite effect and destroy your happiness. While it is nice to treat others and focus on them, the line has to be drawn somewhere so as not to over do it. I think as long as your personal goals do not involve destroying someone elses happiness, focusing on yourself will be more beneifical.  
