Inflations are causing Americans to struggle they dont have enough money to cover their needs food, clothing, gas, and other necessities. People are being evicted from their apartment. Families are loosing their homes and climate changes are on the rise. Not to mention gun voilence in schools children being murded we have a lot of issues to overcome. Americans are starting to realize they are unable to afford the daily things they need to survive while the elites are taking advantage using flashy packaging on merchandise with false advertising to entice consumers. 

Big companies use words colors images along with popular or famous celebrites to sponsor or cosign on their products to peruade potential customers to buy their goods. We as Americans often times buy into this trap only to be disappointed that we are wasting money or throwing away money that can be put into more benificals goods to help us down the road for emergency. We are dealing with inflations so people do not have funds to waste due to bigger issues at hand. 

We are bombarded with social media platforms and politics to engage us into distractions which appear to be helpful but are deceiving causing us to loose the main focus of what really happening in society and America as a whole. 

We have so much validation and valid resources local news and other social platforms that can prove facts of inflations climate changes etc that are effecting us as Americans. The cost of goods rising and the qaulity not being like it used to, merchandise left out on the sea ships due to the pandemic and other viruses arising we are in big trouble and dont have time for the low qaulity in goods or to focus on irrelant media of entertainment politics.

The only way to overcome being decieved and distracted is to focus on preparing for the worse and that is ecomic collapse. Store food water and survival goods. Buy land rv built a small home down size grow your own food and store your own food get ready for the worse and stop being distracted on false advertisment and media.  



