Materialism is a common issue in today's society, but it is not necessarily a bad one. Materialism is most commonly seen as acquiring possessions and spending money. Many people have a distorted perception of what materialism actually is. Many tend ot believe that if one is materialistc then all they care about is their money and possessions. Modern society should not be criticzed for being viewed as materialistic.

Often times, individuals will buy objects because it makes them feel good knowing that they can afford such things and they feel even better when they are able to wear or use the objects that they have acquired. Their peers are quick to label them as materialistic because of this, but they use the term in a negative light. Being materialistc is not a bad thing. Individuals often buy expensive things becuase they can, but sometimes these things are used to do more than one may have thought it could do.

In today's society, many individuals are paid to be materialistc as a means of brand building and advertisement. What this means is that the people are buying these things in hopes of acquiring a better finanical life. If that means buying certain things to appeal to a brand to become a brand ambassador or paid partner with that brand, that does not make them bad; it makes them smart. They used materialism as a means to an end. 

Others may state that being materialistic is bad because they believe that one should not need money orobjects to make themselves happy, but many people are often sad and depressed without haivng access to these things. They beleive that everyone should have the ability to be happy without spending their money on the most expensive clothing or the most expensive jevelry or the most expensive cars, but if that is what makes them happy, then so be it. No one knows the true intentions behind why people decide to spend their money on these things, but it is not their place to judge or label someone as materialistic because of it.

Overall, the modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Everyone should just mind thier own business and lives. If someone wants to spend their money on expensive things, then they should be able to do that without being judged or criticized. Those expensive things could be used for taking their lives to the next level financially. Be it content creator or social media influencer, let those people who are labeled as matrialisic live thier lives the way they choose to without wondering whether or not other people will have something to say. 
