The world is built upon images, and those images, more often than not, are simply illusions put there in order to convey status. These illusions are put there intentionally by marketing and advertising companies in order to sell products. As a result, these images and impressions convey certain effects on people. These effects have too much of an effect on people, causing them to chase these ideas and the illusions they promote. This chasing of ideas often is not beneficial to the person, and often leads them down a road of trying to obtain the product so they can convey to others that they also have the attributes and characterstics that these products evoke. When in reality, the product was not needed at all to demonstrate a particular characteristic about themselves.

This phenomenon is also manifested through people, in that celebrities images are manufactured to convey a certain kind of person, which is not often congruent with how they are in reality. The movie business uses these impressions to sell movies - if a particular actor or actress is in a movie, people often have some kind of idea of what to expect, as actors and actresses are conveyed to have certain attributes and that they will demonstrate these in the movies. This leads to a false expectation at times, as certain actors and actresses have great flexibility in their roles. This can lead to something more nefarious as well, as these celebrities tend to have a great amount of cultural influence and therefore political power, as their images tend to be more than human.

Some people would say these false images and impressions are necessary, as people need guidance or something to look up to as greater than the actual sum of a product or persons parts. It is arguable in that this is false, and as it has been explained previously can potentially lead to harming people rather than helping. More often than not these false images and impressions lead people to chase the lives of  "important" people or products so they can be seen in high regard just like these illusions. When in reality, that time could be better spent learning a particular skill or working on a particular aspect of their lives that would provide an objective measurable metric such as higher income or time for personal development. These illusions put people into a perpetual state of mindless, rampant consumption that provides nothing for themselves and the people in their lives as they chase after the images and impressions of material goods and the details of the personal lives of people who have no idea of their existence. 
