Materialism is the obsession with acquiring concrete, tangible objects and wealth. In some ways, it can be beneficial for the economy of a society. In others, it can be its detriment. I neither favor nor abhor materialism. I see its benefits and its disadvantages. 

Consumers purchasing the goods produced by a nation's economy can keep that its financial system in good health and its people happy. However, corporations looking to increase profits by cutting corners can wreak havoc on the environment. I believe materialism is beneficial in moderation, but I think it should be limited in cases of excessive extravagance, for example, where someone believes they must own a 20-room mansion with 15 bathrooms for themself. This kind of extravagance is unnecessary and extracts a heavy burden on our planet when many millions of individuals are clamoring for the same unachievable goal. 

Materialism can lead to horrid amounts of waste. People often discard items they believe to be obselete when they are still quite useful, but corporations often dictate that products are outdated and must be replaced. These items are discarded and go to landfills, contributing to taking up space and polluting the environment. Our society must learn moderation and to reuse/recycle when the option is avaialable. Even if an item is undesirable to someone, it should be donated rather than thrown in the trash. We should mandate that all items which remain useful are never to end up in the trash. It is a travesty when something that could be useful to someone ends up in a landfill. 

The desire to acquire material objects and wealth gives people goals and a reason to work so they have something to spend their money on. However, this leads to a mindset whereupon that's all there is. Little regard is given to where these items come from, how the materials that make them are sourced, how they are made, or the labor used to make. Many would be shocked to learn that other countries have had their resources plundered, their lands stripped bare, and many of their people forced into slave labor to make the products which we happily purchase. The system that is currently in place has made these atrocities a harsh reality that many are happily oblivious to or have willingly turned a blind eye toward so they can have their iPhones. 

Materialism can be an asset to a nation's economy, but it must be tempered and controlled. If it is allowed to reign free, it leads to undesirable effects on both people and the environment. To protect those who cannot protect themselves and to ensure the sustainability of the planet, the current system must be changed. It will not be able to sustain itself much longer before it collapses.
