Cooperation and competition can both lead to success. Competition might reach success as the different parties try to be the victor in their effort, perhaps each participant pushing the other to refine their work more to achieve success. Cooperation might reach success as all parties collaborate to reach a common goal. Both have their place, but which is better?
Although competition is an important component of success, it is less important than cooperation. One makes the assumption that competition will cause the most fit result, but what it really does is produce an outcome that is most likely to win the competition of the options available. Cooperation has a component of competition, as the coopoerative parties are competing with the problem that the are attempting to solve and can refine their solution to meet the needs of all the parties, but competition tends to result in an effort to achieve and maintain dominance, resulting in both a solution that may not work for all parties as well as a solution that is more fit to win the competition instead of achieve the best success.
There are examples to be found in business where competition has not created the best outcome, but instead the outcome most likely to win overall. Businesses have won contracts to install piping for culinary water in cities by offering the lowest prices and then installed lead pipes that have made the population sick. Food companies have been in a race to sell the most products to American consumers, making the race about who could put more sugar in their products and leading to heart disease being the most common cause of death in the States. Companies approach having monopolies in industry, actually destroying competition by using it. An example of the last point, destroying competition by using it, can be found in the scuttle between Amazon.com and Diapers.com, where Diapers listed their products on Amazon's platform to reach the most common marketplace, Amazon priced their own brand's diapers beneaththe cost to produce them, selling them at a loss to destroy the competition. Now Amazon has the power to set the price and quality of diapers, having run out the competition.  American wealth-gap charts and the wearing away of the middle class can be tied to pro-business policy that has allowed free action by business to compete and try to win by most means, and now our system is on a road to diminished competition brought by an excess of it.
Total cooperation doesn't work without domineering regulatory bodies, but controlled competition that involves cooperation in the direction of the public interest is healthy for competition, because it doesn't allow any party to dominate and destroy the competition. Forcing all entities to cooperate on a certain level can also help protect the competition from doing harm to parties outside of the competition, like regular people, social norms, and the natural world.
The main advocating perspective for competition over cooperation is likely that both sides will need to better themselves to continue in the competition, which ultimately produces a finer product in the business/consumer world, but they often choose to win by eliminating or supressing the competition, or improving their marketing so they can sway cultural positions and remove the need to refine themselves to consumers' tastes, instead learning to alter consumer tastes. Cooperation, or some amount of it, keeps all parties playing by the same rules, preventing their battle from destroying itself or harming others.
Competition without cooperation exists for its own sake. Competition seeks to win. In any attempt at success, there is natal competition, as there is friction between the problem and those experiencing it, and it is by engaging that problem that the success might be found, but without cooperation, that success will be only for its own end. It is vital that concerns beyond the competition are the motivation behind it, so that the success can be an appropriate solution, instead of a hollow victory.
