Both cooperation and competition have important parts to play in society, and both of them work together to help humans advance, progress, and change. There are many strategies that people employ to try and be the best and to succeed in life, and most would agree that a mix of both of these things are required in order to truly learn and grow. Ultimately, cooperation with minds aligned to accomplish a common goal is the best way to achieve the most. Cooperation allows for a healthy distribution of responsibilities, less stress, and more room for intrinsic motivation and satisfaction to occur, among other important things. 

Cooperation is where you work collaboratively with others in order to accomplish a goal or task. Usually there are at least two people that work together in order to accomplish something great, and the more people that there are typically the more work can be done. Some are a little hesitant to cooperate with others because they feel like for some reason it is not going to be fair, and others feel like if they were to just do something on their own they would accomplish more. All of that being said, cooperation puts the age old mantra "many hands make light work" to the test, and it is very clear that when cooperation occurs symbiotically it is to the benefit of everyone involved. One of the biggest reasons why competition is less effective and cooperation is more effective is because typically competition leads to increased stress, decreased productivity, and significantly less positive emotions. For example, when running a race against someone you might run at a significantly faster pace out of the gate, but you will be so focused on where you are in relation to them as well as how much time you have left that you are likely to deplete your energy much quicker and find yourself gasping for air at the end, not having performed your best. Furthermore, those who compete often have a lot more stress. This can be seen in the business world, where men and women fight tooth and nail to achieve the best positions, make the most sales, etc. Although this leads to staggering results for the company as well as potentially a lot of rewards and advances, there is a price to be paid. Many who work on Wallstreet or who devote 70+ hours a week of their time to their career rave about the return on investment while simultaneously lamenting the loss of time that they get to spend with their family, with their kids, and time spent doing their hobbies.

Another important reason why cooperation is the key to achieving more than competition is because competition leads to feelings of dread and insatisfaction. Suddenly the goal stops being to succeed or achieve whatever goal you have for yourself and becomes much more about being better than the person next to you. This might not seem like a very big deal, but this can have some very serious repercussions later down the line. For example, someone who trains for months and months to get ready for a race and then runs the race at or under the time that they had made a goal to acheive is going to be much more satisfied with their results than someone who's only goal or motivation is to beat the person next to them. This is because even if the runner were to run a personal best but took second place they still wouldn't be able to congratulate themselves because they would wish that they would have done better. From personal experience this way of thinking is not conducive to a happy, healthy achievement. There will always be a bigger fish and we could always achieve more than we are right now, but the key to truly achieving is recognizing that we did something noteworthy in spite of all of the exterior pressure that we feel from friends, family, and competitors. 

Lastly, people achieve more by cooperation than by competition because they can rely on the strength of others when they are faltering in their own strength, motivation, or skillset. An example would be if you were trying to solve a crossword puzzle. Although you might be a whiz in your own right, there are likely words that you don't know and areas where your knowledge is a little more shaky where someone else could help you. Having another set of eyes on the task will allow for increased efficiency as well as more insights that might be overlooked by one person. This principle can also be applied quite literally when talking about achieving physical tasks, as someone who is competing to move a car is going to achieve a lot more if they agree to receive help from a team of strong members. We are all weak in one area or another, and having our unique abilities combined together is a recipe for success, longevity, and all around satisfaction.

In conclusion, there are many ways to achieve one's goals. Some work long hours, others are focus-driven and look for ways to constantly drive up efficiency with the time that they have. Some even use competing against other people as a way to drive themselves and feel better about who they are as a person. There is no denying the benefits and motivation that competition can give someone, but one cannot simply hope to achieve as much competing against others as they could as one unified force striving for an objective. Cooperation allows for a healthy distribution of responsibilities, increased support and motivation, as well as a more concentrated effort on a goal. Cooperating also allows room for intrinsic satsifaction and feelings of achievement, something that is much more difficult to nurture in a competitive environment. Competiton serves it's purpose and always will, but in the end cooperation is what will allow us as a society and as a people to achieve greater things than we ever could have imagined. 
