I think images and impressions take precedence over substance for most people in modern society. For many public figures, their brands and public perception often take precedence over their actual character, or the contents of their messages or creations. This is the culmination of many social trends, such as the reliance of brands and public figures on marketing and PR firms, the quantification of social phenomena in social media (such as likes and follower count), as well as the increasingly reactional culture we live in. This is also due to some basic aspects of human nature, such as a tendency to simplify concepts for convenience, as well as groupthink mentality.

Marketing plays a large role in distortion of reality. Attention is a commodity in our society, and so marketers and PR firms compete to make their clients as noticeable and as positively perceived as possible. Being able to stand out and being perceived as a high quality brand, or high status individual, is often more important than the content of one's product, creations, or message. In an overstimulated society and oversaturated markets, it's often harder to garner attention for one's message or product, than it is to perform highly in one's field, whether it be entertainment, politics, or manufacturing. Because of this, brands have to compete at higher and higher levels to become noticed. This has caused many groups and individuals to emphasize marketing more than quality.

Social media platforms such as Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, and TikTok are crucial to most brands and public figures' careers. Social proof plays a large role in success on these platforms; people will often take a public figure or brand more seriously if they have large follower counts, large like counts, and high levels of engagement. Gaming the system is endemic on these platforms, and often necessary to stay relevant. People might outright buy likes and followers to inflate their numbers, to remain competitive when everybody else is doing this, or to fake it till they make it. People might also engage in other behaviors like leaving clickbait comments on highly visible posts to get noticed, rather than for the sake of contributing discussion, or creating content specifically designed to go viral. Attention-seeking has become a more attractive strategy for many of these people than focusing on quality.

All of the above examples are deeply rooted in basic tendencies of human nature and how our brains work. Most people don't have enough time to sift through millions of hours of content and messages; it's easier to pay attention to what seems the most visible or urgent. Forming deep understandings of complex concepts, groups, and individuals is also time-consuming. It's simpler to reduce a message, brand, or concept to a shallow interpretation and carry on with one's life. At the end of the average person's workday, they may understandably feel drained, and not have the time or energy to do a deep dive on every brand or public figure competing for their attention. It's simpler to form a surface-level impression of most, and then pay closer attention only to subjects one is personally interested in. Additionally, most people's dependency on social proof is based on herd mentality instincts. People who have strong emotional reactions to something may influence those around them, creating a feedback loop where many people begin to share the same views and perspectives. Also, for many, it's easier to trust a brand or public figure if they're popular. This gives powerful incentive for brands and public figures to inflate or fake social proof until they can succeed somewhat on their own terms.

Due to all of the forces and phenomena covered above, our culture has become highly distorted. These influences were present in other forms before creations such as social media, but social media has exacerbated them. We live in a cultural climate where attention is a valuable commodity, and it's often more profitable and advantageous to prioritize attention over maximizing quality. Somebody can have the highest quality product or creation, but without effective marketing or attention-grabbing tactics, they could be lost in a sea of information. This happens at the detriment of depth and quality, and so, we live in a world of simulacra where appearances have become more important than reality in many fields. This is largely a negative trend, in my opinion. That said, it could inspire deeper levels of philosophical questioning of whether or not perception itself is part of a person or object's essence. The nuances of such a topic may eventually lead to social transformations.
