             There is no need to look at the life goal setting different than enjoying little things. Even when you set a goal, you can find that lilttle things in there can give you a lot of enjoyment. Imagine you setting up a goal of climbing a hill. The climb can be tedious but every time when you look back, you will find the scenery got better. You can take pride in how much you have climbed. 
             Another example is about a few tough projects that i did. The fun part was meeting new people, convincing customers and building relationship. I had tough goals which gave me lot of stress but i made a great frineds which made the journey easy. So while trying to achieve a goal find small things that make you feel happy. 
              To my mind both these are two sides of the same coin, I mean to say it is important to work hard along with enjoying the present. It means select such goal that you are passionate about, which eventually means that work would not be work for you, it would be fun and the phrase hardwork would then seem to you as a fun ride on the path of life.
             Perhaps it is about enjoying the present, future and past. Whether goals are involved in this is up to you. If you find goals enjoyable then use them, if not then don't bother with them. Never regret that you are alone. People may ask you to not isolate yourself and that is true up to a certain extent but being around filthy and selfish souls is even worse. 
              If you understand youself, accept yourself, and treat yourself well, you should transfer his immediately to other people. You just need the time and repeated encounters, communication about the acceptable topics, and the familiarity that follows many meetings, dates, gatherings, work, or focused attention together.
             A good life starts from you, and your ability to manage yourself, inclution emtions, thoughts, and attention and observable actions. I think life is a journey. Only if we enjoy our working towards goal throughout it's duration, we can achieve it. 
