Happiness is a term that has been associated with good feelings, clear state of mind and even a sense of temporal bliss. In modern day society, people equate happiness with a good life. However one may perceive it, it's the case that happiness should be sought after becuse it makes one feel better about their time on this earth; but how does one achieve happiness?

Happiness is one of many emotions that is generated via endorphins in the mind from ones own experiences. These are usually positive experiences with some form of near-term or longterm benefit to the one going through the experience. It is possible therefore, that people are more likely to experience happiness and thereby be happy if they focus on whatever they deem as beneficial to themselves near-term or longterm.

In my own personal experience, I've come to realize that trying to please others and even be of service can actually be detrimental to one's own happiness as the world is filled with predators who only wish to take advantage of others at their own expense. Although, throughout my time as a devoted church congregant, mentee to a Christian mentor and more recently, member of a religious congregation, I did find temporal happiness when I thought that my service was beneficial to the group or leader, ulitmately, my happiness turned into deep sorrow and depression as I discovered the leaders of the group and even the Christian mentor were sociopathic narcisissts who only desired power and control. My happiness then pales in comparison to my deep regret and mental anguish currently experienced as a result of being taken advantage of and deceivedfor so many years. Although there were temporal moments of happiness during those times in my service to others, those emotions have been greatly diminished.

It is possible, that some may believe service to others provides the greatest form of service as it showcases the sacrificial nature of a man and thusly provides the greatest of all rewards in unselfishly pursing the betterment of others over one's own self. However, this type of direct service to others, is usually exploited by bad actors, namely charismatic leaders with swelling speeches and words that can convince the unsuspecting that their direct service to the leader is the calling of any man wishing to fulfill some grand spiritual ascension that will provide peace and happiness. In the ende, this is still a selfish endeavor as the unsuspecting servant in this case is ultimately looking for a sense of spiritual ascension or achievement for themselves through the leader. In my experience, this is normally the case. 

Some patriots might argue that pursuing one's own goals is a selfish desire that limits one's ability to think of others and can make them a cold hearted individual that's not qualified to succeed in a society built off the backs of the countless selfless servants who gave their lives for the better good of the country. And yet, even those servants were operating for self-interests as they were acting out of hopes of protecting or providing for their own families which in turn would give themselves a better peace of mind and sense of happiness or bliss in knowing their family was provided for. The very act of service for country originated with the thought that they themselves would be happier and at peace if their families were safe. In this case, the noble act of protecting one's loved ones is deemed valid as a by-product of one seeking their own happiness paired with peace of mind. Indeed, even apparent "selfless acts" are many times only a means to an end which is the happiness of the person performing them. So why not pursue what makes us happy and benefits us directly both short term and long term?

In conlusion, I don't believe people can find long term happiness in serving others unless that service is for someone with no agenda or malice in their hearts and the happiness is found in helping the innocent and the poor. The benefit found in this type of service would be the charity that is being practiced by the one looking to help others, thereby providing short term and potentially long term 'good feelings' and memories of service to the less fortunate in the past. However, focusing on one's own personal goals leaves less room for dissapointment from the hands of othes who may have been operating in deception and manipulation the entire time and instead places the onus on one's self to take accountability and make adjustments to achieve one's own goals without interuption from the wicked. Once this is achieved, a person will find that happiness is more abundant and more easily attainable and able to be maintained over time as the good exeriences from self-determination and completion of goals will outweigh the negative memories of being used and abused by others.
