In Michigan, there is a pizza chain that is infamous for running advertisements on television that have absolutely nothing to do with pizza. The chain has chosen to run commercials where it blows-up and demolishes the front of its stores to show that it is remodeling its stores. The chain has run commericals about a new futuristic delivery car, that no doubt will not actually be delivering your pizza any time soon. The chain also decided to run commericals about how it somehow would fix Michigan's roads if you buy its brand of pizza. And lastly, the chain ran ads about how it gave out gift cards to promote local restaurants that were hit hard in the pandemic. The viewer is always left scratching her head wondering, but what about the pizza? Now, in this example, the images are probably not going to make anyone purchase more pizza at first glance. But then again, here the writer recalled all of these ads, so perhaps there is a lasting effect afterall. Nowadays images and impressions, especially in the social media universe in which we live, have a far greater affect on people than ever before.
When it comes to social media, there are a few different types of posters. One that we are all too familiar with is the person who posts about her perfect life. This poster is all smiles. Her kids are well dressed, well behaved, and she is so proud of her children. This poster never has a bad day, or so it seems to the reader of her posts. The reader than compares her own life to that of the poster. The reader feels like less of a person. The reader wonders what is wrong with her. Why is her life not this happy. Why does she struggle to get through the day with her unruly children, while the poster glides through her day like a hot knife through butter. These false images that the poster shared on social media negatively affect others as they compare themselves to the poster. When in reality, the original poster's life is far from perfect.
Prior to the advent of social media, a similar situation occurred in magazines. Models and movie stars adorned the covers with their airbrushed faces and digitialy altered bodies to look perfect. Young girls often believe these images to be real and look up to these celebrities. In turn, some young girls have developed eating disorders and depression trying to look like these perfect people and again wondering why their lives are so unfulfilling compared to these celebrities.
Now, some may say that false images and impressions do not have that great of an effect on people beacause people can simply choose to not look at this content. Or perhaps one should be weary of what they see online or in magazines and not take it to heart. In the end, however, studies will show that social media, specifically looking at other people's positive posts has a negative impact on one's mental health. Studies will also show that young girls are indeed effected by what celebrities do both online and in magazines. Some companies have tried to show "real" woman in their ads, but false images and impressions are simply ubiquitous.
In the end, false images and impressions continue to cloud our reality and take advantage of those who are the most impressionable.
