Certain images people try to maintain in their every day life seem to have lasting impressions on the people they meet. It can be far to simple for one to take people for what they are solely based on their first impressions of people. Some individuals do not take the time to really get to know someone, and continue to be fooled by the outer appearance and false exterior they so adamently try to maintain. Try as they may, these individuals usually fail in their efforts to hide the reality of their true heart and character. For ones exterior does not determine ones true self. 

It's common nowadays for people to get caught up in admiring the perfection and good deeds that some people portray on social media and in real life. Social media has made it easy for people to hide behind a phone or a computer and relay only good things about themselves to the world. Not only can people make up an entirely different persona of themselves, filters on photos nowadays can push this false image of people even further. Often times, we find ourselves admiring these type of people for all the wrong reasons. Of course their photos are nearly flawless- with the perfect lighting and tone of their photos, to their blinding white teeth and stunning hair, as well as their perfect skin and complexion, acheived with the proper photo editors and filters. It seems to be all too common for everyone to get caught up in what they see these people portrayed as on Facebook, Snapchat and all throughout the media. Looks can be deceiving however. One must scratch the surface and look past what is shown to them and really get to know someone before making a judgement on that persons character and their true self.

With technology advancing far more quickly than we could have ever imagined, it's not unusual that any one could easily fool others simply by dolling themselves up, pretending to act a certain way, only portraying the positives in their lives, rather than showing their real, true and raw selves. It's far too easy for one to hide behind this persona that they've made for themselves, rather than just be human. All human's have flaws, and we all bleed the same. We must not forget that someone's character is not defined by who they appear to be physically (or superficially), online and in real life. What defines someone's character is made up of their true heart and soul, their decisions and actions they take in their everyday lives, and how they treat other people. Looks aren't everything- and they can definitely be decieving. People shouldn't take images and their impressions of people that seriously, without diving a little deeper and truly finding what people are really about.
