Imagine walking through the isles at the grocery store. You are craving a box of Lucky Charms cereal, but you cannot decide whether to buy the store brand cereal or the brand name cereal. After a few minutes of contemplation, you finalize your choice, due to the nostalgia behind the physical cereal and the box, and you go with the brand name Lucky Charms. The colors of the rainbow flowing through the box and the Leprechaun on the front instantly bring back memories of eating it with your favorite spoon for breakfast. You can't resist, so you bust open the box right in the isle just to smell the fresh aroma of the marshmallows and the cereal together. Right then and there, you knew it was the right decision to buy the brand name.

Images and impressions leave an extensive impact on people. Does the brand have an impact on the quality of the product? Absolutely it does. Can the advertisements and packaging of a product sway an opinion? Without a doubt, yes, advertisements are ways to hook the consumer into the product. Politicians run for office and they campaign like there is no tomorrow, but the same goal is still in mind- hook the consumer and feed them what they want. The impressions these images and advertisements make on us can impact the way we think about everything. The people we vote for to run our country or state, the leaders in our workplaces, the products we consume. 

We watch viral videos of reviews on products that we might not even like. The only reason we buy it is because everyone else is buying them too. The anticipation builds for the arrival of that product, and when it finally gets here, you are disappointed. You realize the product was not worth it after all. The aesthetic of the package might be trendy and cute, but is the product good? That politician running for office is a woman, but is she the right choice? The expensive makeup product you bought has a dupe for fifty percent less, why didn't you buy that instead? Sometimes we focus so much on the flashy and popular opinions that we forget that we have our own opinions too. And, sometimes, simple is better.                          




