Happiness is a concept that has and will be debated until the end of time. Something as subjective as what makes people happy can't be quantified like a scientific study, can't be written in textbooks, and can't be researched through any objective means. It's my personal belief that true happiness comes when one focuses on their own personal goals, rather than on the happiness of others. While that may sound callous, I believe others benefit the most when individuals focus on bettering themselves.

As someone who has struggled with mental health for all my life, happiness has always been something incredibly fleeting. Focusing on others has always been a way to offload my own negative emotions -- my own traumas -- rather than addressing them directly. So people may say it's selfish to focus on myself and my own goals, while I would argue I can only become the best person I can be if I work on myself first-- a mentality where happiness naturally follows. If I'm happy, surely it's easier to cause those around me to be happy as well.

Of course, there are those who find their happiness solely through helping others. I find these people tend to be accomplished in themselves, and are already at points in their life where they can afford such kindness towards others. Their happiness is almost intrinsic and easily obtained, a result of their personal goals in life being fulfiled in some way or another. They are able to focus on the happiness of others because helping others is their personal goal, whether they realize it or not.

There's also the matter of parenthood. While I may not be a parent myself yet, I can sympathize with those who find their happiness through giving their children the best lives they can. People may argue this is an example in opposition of my viewpoint. Personally, I feel that parenthood in and of itself is a personal goal of the individual, and the happiness of a child is fulfilment of their own personal goal. In a way, even this comes back to focusing on the self.

Happiness will likely continue to be discussed until the end of time, as it's something incredibly personal and subjective to everyone who has experienced it. Focusing on yourself and on others are two valid methods of experiencing happiness, but I still feel as if one causes longer lasting happiness than the other. Happiness is best when obtained through personal goals, and the happiness of others will result from it. There is no need to focus on others exclusively in order to acchieve happiness within yourself, and you will likely be happy for longer as long as you yourself feel fulfilled.
