An important question has always been, "Does competition amongst people lead to greater success or is competition a bad thing?" 
 
Comepetition is the law of nature.  When yoe see someone doing something better than you, you become aroused and want to try harder to improve and become better than them.  Competition has always existed and it is everywhere.  It is seen in sports, the workplace, academics and even in backyard games.  It is important to people to succeed and to become winners and not losers.  Competition is a great motivating factor for people to do better and to complete and achieve more. 

Therefore it would seem that competition is a good thing and moves us forward to better things and great achievements. Students compete for grades and scholarships causing them to learn more and broaden their horizons. In the workplace, if somebody invents something great, there is somebody who will try to improve it or invent something better, thus moving society forward and creating better advances in products and serivices offered.  So, yes competion is positive and motivating in many aspects. 
 
However, competition can also have its drawbacks.  Competition can cause people to do negative things such as lie and cheat to get ahead.  For example, students feel tremendous pressure to compete in school, to do better than others and get ahead.  This pressure might convince them to cheat on tests or plagerize essays to get better scores than other students.  Often this behavior is discovered and ends up causing more problems than it solves.  Competition can also lead to conflict amongst others which can erode relationships and cause interpersonal issues.  

Overall, competition is definitely a motivating factor in achieving success but must also be balanced with a good amount of cooperation in order to result in a positive outcome.  While intense competition, where someone will stop at nothing to be the best, can lead to unhealthy outcomes, friendly competition and a desire to do better and produce more can lead to better and greater successes moving us and our society forward.
