In modern society materialism is criticized because we all realize that we should be able to live with less.  This can be due to so much of our society living with lower incomes compared to expenses, and a climbing income to debt ratio.  It's possible that we have an inate response to blame our consumerism on materialism without realizing that it could come from our survival instincts.  
Having plenty can be a cushion for a time of starvation.  This works with our need to be sure we have food and shelter, but has extended to much more.  We need to be sure we have tools to complete tasks, food in case we can't afford it next month, and the drive of the media and advertising to play on our base instincts of need.
We know that we don't need all we try to acquire, because there are plenty of people in our society who live on much less.  There are children who live without gaming consoles. many now live without computers, though they do tend to buy more expensive phones.  There are some who live without phones. some who live without transportation.  Logically we know these things aren't necessary.
It is the unnecessary aspect of the many things we think we should have that causes us to treat materialism as a bad thing, and in some cases, it definitely can be a hinderance.  When you buy unnecessary items, andd then you end up not being able to pay the bills, it can be an eye opener.  Did two weeks of lattes really seem more important than your water bill?  in hindsight, perhaps not.  However, due to the psychological tricks advertising, the media, and even those around us use, even if inadvertently, we are likely to continue to engage in materialism.
When we get caught in the trap of "keeping up with the Jonses", we eventually find that not only do we have way more than we intended, but we feel guilt for how much we've wasted in money, time, energy and space on thos things.  It seems we can't seem to help this cycle.  Many of us go from cleaning out a closet or a room, to refilling that same closet or room, only to cycle back to cleaning them out again.  When prices go up and wages don't follow, this leads to more debt.  Detb then makes us feel bad, and for many feeling bad seems to be equated with a lack.  We then fill that lack with more stuff, which again drives up debt.  It is another cycle that materialism seems to drive, however this cycle might be better blamed on our psychological state than on materialism itself.
Most of the time, it seems that Christmas is when we really become critical of materialism.  It isn't a surprise, since the Christmas shopping season starts before Thanksgiving, but definitely gets into full swing starting on Black Friday.  Since this is also the time when debt can skyrocket, it's no surprise that the negative feelings on materialism come out.  Even so, we continue to buy, because there is a social expectation that we will buy bigger and better things than last year.
For some of us, this trap is avoiadlbe by simply not having the money or credit to spend, however the guilt remains.  In this case, the guilt is actually over not being able to be as materialistic and buy for our loved ones.  It's almost as if our brains have been high jacked by the advertising industry, the media, and stemming from both of those, social pressure.  
At the same time this is going on, we still keep reminding ourselves and each other that we don't need "things" to be happy.  We speak the words, but even as some of us are forced to live by them, the happiness we speak of seems elusive for most.
If materialism itself isn't bad, since it likely stems from an inate need to save up for the lean times, perhaps the real issue is that we have been trained to get more than necessary.  Maybe it isn't materialism itself that's the issue.  Maybe it's the corporations and the general greed of those who want more that drives the guild and the expectation, but due to social pressure, and perceived needs we just engage in materialism.  Perhaps time off from the wider world; television, internet, even magazines will begin to help disengage us from this false sense of need for the latest and greatest.

