          INTRODUCTION :
                                                                  Happiness is a general for all the peoples live in the world and the happiness is when they are reaching their goals or aims.

         ABOUT HAPPINESS :

                                                                Many peoples are run for their family happiness and enjoyment. but some peoples or company managers do not respect their employees and not act as a human. they are only seeing their and their family happiness.but some good managers are really helpful to their employees in their children's education ways and hospital ways.
                                                               First a man select his goal and after run for the goal very hard workingly. but some money landers they buy the talent of their peoples and give some money  to their and they will increses his sons development. the really good managers few approve the poor children's talents and they delivered it to the world.

          PROPERTIES OF HAPPINESS :

                                                                 Some peoples think they were a very unlucky person birth in the world but god has a plan for a every human so they are looking to changing mind and working hard one day hapiness is reaching their destination. but you are not thieft other people hardworks  who they are not respect to live in the world.

                                                                   Peoples live in the world so many years so always help to poor peoples and animals and birds. also you have more money and you have chance to study the poor students and change in their life systems.because they were also born to enjoy this world.so rich peoples help to poor peoples when they are not filled up with happiness.

         CONCLUSION :

                                                  Happiness  is chasing their goals and they are reached their or reaching time they are also help to other aims of peoples. this property will you make a good man in the world and also you could take a good respect from others.               

