I can not dispute that materialism exists in today's American society. Buying goods and having the "best and newest" is the focus for many individuals, even if it means that the money spent on these goods would be better saved or put in to retirement accounts. The fact that there were multiple rounds of stimulus checks issued by the United States government during the Corona virus outbreak further provides evidence that people wil buy things even if not needed. The multiple rounds of stimulus checks were issued with the intent of them being spent, and stimulating the economy. 

Despite the fact that millions lost jobs and wages during the outbreak, especially those in low-wage front-line service jobs, these funds often times were spent on "things" and not necessarily necesseties. I remember reading an article about how funds were spent by different people in different economic situations, and those with fewer means were more likley to spend the funds on non-essential items, and those with more means were more likley to put the funds away in savings. Again, this ties to the fact that people will buy things just because they have a few dollars in their pocket, especially that were not "earned". Having the opportunity to earn money makes you appreciate it more, versus getting "free" money in the mail. It is a bit ironic that after billions in Corona virus economic packages, we are now in a state of pre-recession, where a lot of folks probably wish they had that six hundred dolars to helo pay for rising gas, grocery and heating costs. This economic downturn must be havig an effect of people's ability to exhibit materialism, and therefore may also affect general "happiness" tied to the ability to acquire posessions and spend money.

I think that modern society can and can not be criticized for being materialistic. If you earn good wages and have the means to buy things and spend money, then "good for you". If one does well they should be able to buy nice things, and they should not be criticized for doing so. It should be a motivation for those of us who want nice things to work harder so that we have the means to do so as well. If one does not have the means for such purchases they shoud not spend money on them, and shoud not take out credit card debt or spend money that should be spent on basic needs in order to acquire material possessions. Not having means and still being materialistic should be criticized in our modern society.
