Images and impressions are around us everywhere. Whether that was back in highschool where you had to have a certain "image" to be one of the popular kids or people had to have certain impressions about you for you to even be liked. Even after highschool this will always stick around, there are cliques at the workplace, people getting impressions from you deciding on whether to be afiliated with you or not. This will always be around you no matter where you go. So does image and impression have too much of an effect on people?

Yes, images and impressions have way too much of an effect on people. Kids are bullied and picked on in school because they don't have a certain image. And a lot of the time there's absolutely nothing wrong with them, people just don't get the chance to know them because of the "image" and it shouldn't be like that. People without all the fancy technology, cars, houses, and clothes, get that added "bonus" of being better because they have all these things. But a lot of the time it's those people that are the ones struggling. Because of this we miss out on a lot of opportunities and people because we are too focused on the images and impressions of people.

This is especially true in politics. Half of the supporters don't have a clue what the politcal figure is saying but they only think with them becuase of the look or the "good" impressions they've heard. They might not even agree with the figure, but it doesn't matter you have to stick with that "image". Entertainers as well. They're way past their "prime" but still have a strong fanbase and people discrediting others becuase of the image that has been built for them. 

Nobody wants to be "that guy". You have to stick with everyone else. That's just human nature. Our image of being part of the crowd being around others with this image has that big of an effect on us. 

In stores there are plenty of products that have so many bold colors and fancy picture all on the product, but what usually happens when we try the product? It's bad or it doesn't live up to the expectations you had set! Marketers will tell you it's all about drawing customers attention. Because what product are you going to buy? The bright nice looking alright product, or the dull great working product? You're going to buy the first one because of the imagery. It has that big of an effect on us!

Now there are going to be people that will tell you that it doesn't have too much of an effect on people and that this is just the norm. But it isn't. Those are usually the ones that are very effected by this. A normal person should be drawn to something with a great image or impression, but it is still up to them to know make a decision. They got you there, now decision on how it should effect you. Don't just go blind and follow along. 

Others will say it's not fair for the whole population to be dragged down because of the 20% that is affected too much, but thats just not the case. A big portion of the population is like this, and even the ones that aren't affected as bad will have at some let an impression effect them a little to much, even if it's subconsciously. The human mind is that strong. 

At the end of the day, no matter where you go in this world you will be affected by others who let images and impressions have too much of an effect on them if not yourself. It's everywhere from a young age to old, from school to work, and from politics to celebrities. Everyone just cares about how they look to others instead of the substance of themselves. You can be the worse athelete but sense you have the freshest kicks everyone will follow you. Job interviews have been affected by this, people being wrongly arrested, and people just looking for an opportunity. This just means it's gone to far, way too much is depended on how something looks without giving something or someone a chance. Do you give someone or something a chance?
