Since our birth into human culture, we have been occupied with materials. One of my first and favorites has been rocks. They come from the dirt, they emerge from the earth, and we are these types of things. Everything that surrounds us is natural and we like it, we like to play with it. But exploring and being with parts of the universe has become hard to manage, because we've started preferring certain things to the exclusion of others. I contend that like the earth, we are a constantly flowing energy in different forms that will cease its experience of time if we don't look out and quick. I think we are losing the connection of ourselves and materials, all by the chaos of our mind. This is what I would refer to as materialism, this disjunction. 

For instance if someone is in a flooded hotel in Jakarta to live and has one TV that runs and maybe one close friend, this shows our neglect towards their materials. We might be obsessed in our own homes over what channels on TV will save us from the pain of knowing we can't manage our own things or materials either. If someone is on top or better off, somewhere in their mind they've run into that fact of disparity. Humans have less time to tend to reality or proper items, say a wool sweater to keep warm with, because they think the only route to the things they need is through a medium, the dollar, the other things in their lives. And it's true, but only to a certain extent. I would say that because we use our time chasing things in an inefficient way, across the web of inefficiency and non-self sufficiency, we actually cannot add our experience to the objects. It's a mechanism of experience, to be involved with the "birth" of something in our lives. If we don't know where it came from or there's a warped glass inbetween us, how can we be part of the world around us. Materials are magical in a way, so why not make that magical reality in our own way? We are capable and have been capable to build our own things as a species. The fact that someone has taken this away from us, means we didn't realize in time to save ourselves.

I myself am in a very bad situation. If I would have protected my time, my energy and funds, I could have gotten to the point. The point is goods and shelter, because that's what we need to function. But it doesn't have to be in the sickened way where we're disconnected from it. An argument might be that humans are so terribly successful in making new ways to do and understand the universe, that we have fed ourselves, lots of people more than we could have on the land. Part of materialism is the connection to more is better. Well, we know it's not. We have overpopulation. Why did things grow like a cancer? We have children pining at home about being astronauts, going through life better or worse off, both being distracted from their essential duties. Many religions have pointed to materialism. It's true. It could be collecting and obsessing over cute angels, while not gardening or taking care of tense or inapproriate situations in the family. This trickles down. All the time that is spent making perfection or objects that are extracted somehow means that we cannot pick out what materials are the best, for instance. 

Having too much will sting eventually, because we end up being dysfunctional people. Take no more than what needs is a sentiment I've picked up. I don't know where from, but  I know it's noticable on one's own and I know it's been said. An ism means a sole focus, it means an imbalance just because of the world we live in. I guess it's always maligned a little bit, an ism, because life can't afford to be narrow. We've done so much to ourselves just by being narrow and tunnel-visioned. One could forgoe a lot just to live again. Lots of people long to just get out of work wheels and stuck situations by going to an island or to work on a farm in a foreign country. This should say something. It's not like a coastal culture, even if cold like the UK, wants to be away from itself. In fact many places are proud of their materials, their place in life, but they don't have too many things and they value what they do have. And the things are of ultimate high quality, because the time and effort involved is known and present. It's a balanced life. Their materials aren't part of materialism, it's what weaves culture together. It's something someone can rely on. We can't rely on things being available to us all the time or working properly. Surely world events have shown this, and I hope people will get smaller and not larger. Just because one might think something is grand or doesn't want to be critical, it shouldn't muddle the landscape of their lives.
