It's pretty hard not to be materalistic in today's world. Even if we see materialism as something we should avoid, the world we live in now simply makes it too hard. With how much time we spend with ads being thrown in our faces, whether we like it not, it seems almost impossible to not give in. It has been known for as long as human lives have been documented, it really comes down to: money and spending money makes us happy. Having things, even if only a few, simply because we wanted to have them, brings people the utmost joy. I believe it is unfair to criticize that to a point. 

One of the many defends for "hating materialism" comes from the idea that it is a waste to spend money on unimportant things. People that do not have lots of money, know better than to spend it on unecessary items. Having come from a poor background, I can definitely agree to some point. Growing up, my family definitely had to be careful how they spent money. I was constantly reminded to focus on my studies in order to not have to struggle as an adult as my parents did. However, as little money as my family had, my parents still enjoyed splurging every-now-and-then, even if it was something as small as a weekly meal at Burger King. And yes, I did grow up focusing on my studies and I am grateful to say that I am in a very financially-secure state. I give in just as much as the next person in my age group but I have also learned limits. I learned to appreciate everything and I worked hard to be able to dine out more than just once a week, and not just to fast food places.

As I stated before, it's really hard not to be materialistic. I, however, believe that we, as a society, should not be criticized for materialism. It is those that become consumed with it to the point where they let their lives come to ruin, that should be the ones being criticized. Even then, there are programs designed to help shopping addictions. This is definitely a tough topic to talk about but there are simply too many factors to simply go one way or another. We can't even watch shows/movies, check social medias, or shop for food without companies throwing out ads to tempt the materialism we all have. Some give in more than others, but that does not make them better or worse than their counterpart. 
