Have you ever discovered something that appeared too good to be true, in fact, was? Most people have had the experience of being fooled by an image. Appearances and pictures can be enough to persuade or even trick most people, most of the time. But when this principle is applied intentionally to fleece consumers, it is unethical and illegal. 

It's easy to find examples of this in every day life, especially when it comes to making purchases online. Unhappy reviews are filled with comments along the common theme of "the item I received didn't look anything like the picture," or otherwise expressing how an image was used to misguide someone into making a purchase that they wouldn't have made had they been able to see, touch, and evaluate the product in person beforehand. The product is too small, too flimsy, or looked to be higher quality in the photographs. Shady and unethical companies will deliberately use falsified images in order to procure a quick sale, betting that enough customers will be deterred by the returns process that the company will still make a profit with their inferior merchandise. 

But making a purchase in person isn't a perfect defense against manipulative, persuasive imagery either. Products are sometimes packaged deceptively in the hopes that the picture will be enough to prompt a purchase, even though the buyer can't actually see most or all of the product they are buying. Consider food items inside opaque packaging: a beautiful, enticing image of the type of food may be printed on the outside, leading the buyer to assume that what the picture shows is indeed what is inside the package they are buying...but only after the purchase is made and the packaging opened, is a deeply inferior or undesirable version of the food revealed to the purchaser. A common example would be frozen entrees that appear pristinely and artistically plated on the opaque packaging imagery, while the reality of the contents is simply one or two piles of frozen glop in molded plastic wells. 

While some would argue that it is up to the buyer to ensure that they are not being taken advantage of by deceptive packaging imagery, unethical companies have already figured out that a certain number of people, although unhappy with the item, won't bother to return it and get their money back, for a variety of reasons that might include being too busy, the value lost perceived as too small to bother with, misplacing or losing the proof of purchase, etc. These unethical companies predict that enough people will buy and fail to return their inferior products in order to still make a profit, so there is an absence of good faith from the beginning: they were never intending to make a good and valuable product that people would prefer, but rather to simply make many small individual swindles on a large scale.

Consumers always have the final say in how they evaluate advertising imagery and what they choose to purchase, which has sometimes been referred to as "voting with your wallet". But when unethical companies go out of their way to mislead or misinform with deliberately false imagery, they are taking reasonable self-efficacy away from the consumer, and should be held accountable under the law for false advertising.   


