Do you think you have too much stuff? Do you think others have too many things? Do you think that this is a result of materialism growing in modern society? Is it out of control? Let's talk about it. 

Materialism is when you acquire possessions that you don't necessarily need, but want to have. As a society, especially in the west, we want to spend money on material items like smart phones, computers, televisions, luxury cars, recreational vehicles, and so much more. Do you really need all of these things? Does it make you happier? Consider your life without an material possessions. What does life look like if you just acquired the things that you needed for survival such as food, shelter, and clothing? 

Many people think that they need the latest technology or the fanciest car but that is not the case. Being happy comes from the inside and not any material possessions. Think of other countries who do not value material possessions or think of them as bad. Not everyone on Earth today revels in their possessions. Many societies are content with the basic neccessities of life. The western world should learn more about alternative societies and see if there are material possessions that are unnecessary in their own lives.

Modern societies who are materialistic should not be critized. As we succeed as a society, it is natural to want to acquire possessions. Many people want to show off their possessions as a way to say, "look how far I've come." We naturally want to succeed in life and these material possessions show off that success. A materialistic life is what modern society has chosen for itself and therefore should not be critized. A society who does not deal in material possessions or finds them sinful, should also not be critized. These are two different ways societies choose to live and neither should be critized; however, I find that it is much more satisfying to have a healthy and happy life rich with family, friendships, and faith, rather than the possessions. 


