Are you really seeing what you think you are seeing?  Do you see  a well groomed woman walking down the street?  Do you see a child playing in a park with other children?  Do you actually see the birds singing their beautiful songs while sitting on the tree branches? Can you almost taste that rich dark chocolate fudge cake on your television screen? Is that person really who they claim to be?  Lets delve into reality versus impressions. Impressions that people want you to see.


Appearances, impressions, advertising, we all do it.  From the clothes we wear, to the make-up we put on. To the dialect we speak. To the hand movements to the hair style. Everything we do is part of our appearance.  Some do it better than others.  Some are paid big bucks to help others do it well.  Look at politicians, and models, and entertainers, and tv personalities. Influencers are becoming all the rage now.  Even our next door neighbor does does it. They promote themselves. They may not pay someone to help them pick out just the right outfit or accessory, but they definitely have their own style. And they achieved that style because of how a product was promoted.  Where it was located either on a store shelf.  Displayed on a website.  Touted by an influencer.  Something, someone got them to purchase it. 

I for one love clothes.  I love simple clothes.  Clothes that stand the test of time.  Not trendy, but cute.  Above all, it needs to be comfortable, cute, and last.  That's my criteria. If an advertisement can meet those criteria for me first and foremost they may just may have me sold.  Even if I'm just window shopping.  The fact is advertisers know that there are certain types of people. 

They've studied us for years.  They airbrush the model because someday I may look like that well groomed woman walking down the street. They appeal to our senses because who doesn't smile at a child playing in the park?  They know we love looking up and taking a deep breath and thinking all is well when we hear the birds chirping and surely all is well with the world.  And heck, my mouth is watering just looking at that rich dark chocolate fudge cake.  It can't be that bad for me. Right?  

Nothing is wrong when everyone keeps telling us everything is so right.  But be careful.  You never know when there's a wolf is sheeps clothing. 








