I feel that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. Every day I see examples of this across the world of celebrity news as well as in day to day life. I can remember when Instagram was first introduced and most of it's users during this time posted varied interest, photography and art on their timelines. As instagram and social media in general became more of a daily part of our lives, I feel that the kind of media shared by people has changed to become more self promoting and narcisstic. 
Companies now run full ad campaigns playing on people's insecurities, and app makes have become extremely sucessful developing apps that allow one to alter their physical apperance. The popularity of selfies, and viral instagram challanges that promote showing off one's body and sensual nature, has lead to people creating entire new personalities based off of false realities. 
There have been reports of people renting homes, cars, and even having film studios converted to look like private jets to give people an illusion of how they are living in their day to day life. With the rising popularity of body enhancement and modification surgeries, some people attempt to change their looks to appear more like the famous people that they see on social media, not knowing that the person that they are comparing themselves to are enhanced by application filters, angled profile shots, and surgeries. I have recently bumped into two celebrities who looked nothing like their public social media profile pictures. 
These same people team up with companies and sell the public products that they've never used, tout the good deeds they do that are actually publicity stunts, and claim to love and respect the same fans that they refuse to take photos with when they see them in public. 
Companies have long spent more on advertising than R&D, because if it grabs someone's eyes then there is chance that they've picked up a new customer. Most of the nation brands that we grew up on, like Reese's or Oreos or Apple Jacks, have changed their formulas to use cheap ingridents at the expense of taste. Nearly none of the products from my youth taste the same anymore. Yet, nearly all of them have new packaging and huge commercial ad campaigns and have increased their prices by 100% since I was child.
Today, seeing is not believing because I have learned that All that glitters isn't gold.


