Every one of us is impressionable. We start early being shaped and molded by our parents and our experiences in the world around us. We begin our years in primary school and our impressions expand  and change influenced by teachers and friends. This defining of our world and the degree of influence others have on us continues through adolescence and into adulthood. 

This ability t0 influence is a powerful tool in the hands of advertisers and the media. I feel there is a constant battle to create behavior, whether it is consumption of goods, support for a cause or idea, or simply to incite emotions. I feel that images and impressions can have too much of an effect on people. I believe this is a problem for society and that it has been getting worse over time. I believe we are experiencing more violence today because we see so much violence in the movies, in the media and in video games. We are able to tap into images and news on a constant basis, there is no censorship of what you can see or find on the Internet. There is misinformation and partial information, it becomes difficult to understand what is true and what is false. The images projected through advertisements create unrealistic wants and contribute to a dissatisfied life. There is always something new or better, more exciting than what you have. People in the ads look perfect, holidays are happy, no one is in debt or addicted, an ideal is being portrayed that is difficult to measure up to leading to unhappiness or stress because it can not be obtained by everyone. Hollywood movies seem to reinforce the odd or unusual now as the new normal. We have gone too far in trying to be inclusive, politically correct or inoffensive that it has become offensive....to common sense.

Of course an arguement can be made of all of the bling and bombardment of images. It can be said that it elevates desires, participation and discussion. I would agree that this is true, however, I would disagree that everyone of us needs to be bombarded. There are people who are too young for many of the messages, there are people that are mentally ill and not in a position to discern truth for falsity and exageration from reality.

We need to have controls on how much exposure we allow. Too much is not a good thing.
 














