It is hard to tell what is real or not when buying products in today's time. From going to the grocery store, restaurants, or even shopping online, what you see is most likely not what you're going to get. We are currently living in a time where appearance of products outweighs the quality of said products... but I do not think our society cares.

Everywhere we go in our lives today, we are ambushed with the idea of fake beauty - photoshopped models when you buy clothes online, burgers  who probably are not even cooked all the way through so they look pretty when you look at the menu at McDonalds, that perfect healthy meal when you buy your frozen lunches for next week. Most things we see in our world are fake. In my opinion, photoshopping models' bodies is probably the most dangerous one of all.

Girls are exposed to photoshopped models from a young age. This is very harmful to their mental health because when they grow up, chances are they're not going to look like the perfect model they thought they would. In some ads, legs are made longer, torsos smaller, all blemishes and stretch marks removed, even skin tone is changed sometimes so editors can create the picture of the perfect woman. Girls are tought from a young age that in order to be considered pretty in our society, we have to be perfect; and that is just not realistic. There are even apps today where people can photoshop their images at home so they can look "perfect," and post them on social media. There should be warning labels on ads that have been photoshopped so girls know not to compare themselves to the unrealistic beautiful model they are looking at - or photoshopping should just be banned because what way to better sell products than advertising them on naturally beautiful women. It is time to change women's beauty standards so they do not think they are not worth anything just because they do not have perfect bodies. There is a saying I heard that states (not word for word), sunflowers are beautiful, roses are beautiful; they look nothing alike, but they are both flowers and beautiful in their own ways. 

In contrary, products do sell better if they have been photoshopped. As I stated earlier, a good example is a burger. When we see the burger adds and we see the pefect juicy burger sitting there it makes us crave one. If there was a picture of the actual burger you get from McDonalds on the ad, they probably wouldn't be bought as much. Of course it tastes wonderful, but just looking at the soggy buns and the imperfect patty on a picture is not very convincing to buy. Same goes for photoshopping models. When women see the Victoria Secret ads and see the perfect model wearing that lingere, it makes them think, "wow if I wear that piece, I'm going to look so good," and it will increase the probability of them buying it. Photoshopping images from a producers point of view is a good thing if it makes customers buy the product more. 

It all comes down to reality. We are currently living in a fake world. As far as advertisements go, being fake is a good thing. But when it comes down to mental health, eating disorders, and low-self esteem of women just because they do not look perfect according to society's standards, I think change would be a good thing. Stop photoshopping women in ads and let natural beauty shine for a change. We only get one body in our lifetime, why not take care of the body we are granted in a healthy way, instead of trying to change it to "fit in." 


