In current society, there is a large empasis placed on becoming independent. In day to day life, success is mesured in how much you succeed as an individual;acomplishments at school are graded on how well you do on your own. However, when it come to large goals, humans tend to do better when working together. 

Starting from when you're a child, it is established most family task are better when done with multiple people. Child-rearing is generally seen as a group activity. In a stereotypical nucular family there are two parents: a mother and a father. There's even a frequently used idiom in colloqual english that comes to mind: it take a village to raise a child. Frequently studies cite strong family systems for success in child rearing. This along shows that coopeation between others provides the ultimate achievement: raising empathetic human beings. 

This idea, however, is changed once a child enters their schooling age. Instead of success being mesured with other family members cheering, it is starts to be mesured by the child's accomblishments on thier own. School is set up to promote competativeness. This can be seen in individual assigments, enforced incentive accomplishing ones own work before assisting a classmate, or breeding competition due to frequest comparision of one's work to another peer. I'm sure may student's could provide examples of having thier own work compaired to another in their school, or even having their class ranking posted in a public form. 

Even their own family dynamic has changed. Instead of a child's milstones being seen a win for the family -- proof of an sucess in the village -- their used to pit children against each other. Who's schoolwork hasn't been compared to a sibling's or cousin's? This increased empasis on competition can increase childhood mental issues. If one fails to be competative, it could affect one's own image of themselves, and thier own achivement. 

This idea of competition carried on into adulthood, but starts to break down in college. Their is more empasis placed on cooperation and team work in secondary insitutinos, but at the end of the day most grades that you recived are attributed to just you. Rarely are you graded on group work.  It's odd when compared to how most modern work places operate. Most work place process work in project formats. This brings back an empasis on group work and cooperation. Most projects are too big for one person to do, and with that come the beauty of collaboration. 

Humans generally do better when together and not apart. We are able to literally build who nations when we don't look just to ourselves but our comminuty. While most classically liberals will say individualism is what make is succssful, I would say in both short and long run, we need to rely on our communities to make lasting change, and a better world for generations to come. Its when we start to break down these communties we start to see more issues as a whole. 
