Success can have many ways in which it is achieved. Some believe that competition to bring out the best in people is the way to achieve this success, while others believe working with others and cooperating creates success. Success is more widely driven through the engagement of cooperating with others to bring about new ideas, change ideas to become more sophisticated, and discard ideas that may not work. Cooperation also includes working together on a task such as those that require physical labor where other people are needed to be successful.
Cooperation involves working as a team and creating ideas and success using the power of other people. Ideas can become biased or hindered if it is just one person creating them, thus not leading to great success. Being able to cooperate with other people to bring about new ideas leads to better success. When a person has an idea, they can also explore many other options or subsequent ideas with the aid of others. An idea can be changed and reformed to become better and lead to further success. Some ideas may even need to be completely discarded for many reasons. Competition can lead to biased ideas and lead to failure sue to this bias and not willing to cooperate with others. In the healthcare field, for example, a doctor must work as a team for patient success. They may have the highest degree and most education, but not collaborating with their collegues can result in patient harm. Other healthcare providers may see things differently than the lead doctor but if they are trying to compete against others, it can result failed care for the patient. Being able to cooperate and work with others allows those ideas to be questioned, and may even be thrown away in the end with the assistance of others. 
Some people are better at some skills and may not have the same strength or ability with other tasks. For example, many jobs require multiple skills to be done throughout the day. Being able to collaborate and cooperate with others can lead to the job being achieved. People have a sense of over-estimating their abilities sometimes. In the world we live in today, a lot of things we do has become a competition. We feel the need to compete with our peers to show we are successful and more superior to others. However, this can harm our success in the task at hand. There may be someone more qualified to achieve the task or even just having a second person to assist. Cooperation allows tasks that may be more difficult to be achieved with success while competition can lead to the inability of success. 
Success has many different meanings and different ways it can be achieved. While competition creates the drive in people, it can also hinder the perceptions of our abilities and what we are truly capable of accomplishing. Working together and cooperating with others creates an environment where our skills and knowledge can be enhanced. The ability to share ideas, knowledge, and skills through cooperation is essential for success in the world we live in.  

