Materialism is a concept that we can no longer avoid in this day and age. Everything that we do involves some type of product or consumption of such. Whether it's a house, a car, or something as simple as a watch, we all have some type of material thing that we love and cherish in this world. The idea that some people are more materialistic than others should not diminish the importance of materials nor make it seem like a bad thing to acquire many possessions. Materialism is unavoidable and should not be criticized in our modern era. 

It is evident that some people are more materialistic than others. But the fact is that we are all materialistic, one way or another. Like it or not, materials not only make our lives easier, but also make us happy. A car, for instance, gets us from point A to point B, making our lives easier. Since owning a car makes our life more convenient, aside from its looks, it makes us feel more satisfied in life. A watch, for instance, tells us the time of day, which is a necessity in life. If we didn't keep track of time, we would not make it to work on time, pick up our children from school in time, or even make it to the airport in time for a vacation. 

Sure, there are people that buy super expensive watches, like a Rolex, because it makes them happy to be able to acquire such a valuable item. But why should that be any different from a person buying an ordinary watch that costs them $100? In the end, they are both watches and manufactured by a unique brand. The only difference is that one is more expensive than the other. If someone can afford an expensive watch that brings them happiness and represents their hard work in life, then we should not be criticizing them for being materialistic. Instead, we should admire them for achieving success and being able to acquire a watch that they love to wear. The watch is a representation of their hard work in life. 

In conclusion, materialism should not be criticized in this modern era because it is something that defines our life. Without certain materials, we would not survive nor be happy in life. Many materials, like a house, a car, and even a watch, are necessities in life. We need a house for shelter, a car to get us to places like work and school, and a watch to tell time. Nobody should be criticized for being materialistic because we all use materials and consume products in many different shapes and forms. In the end, the possession of materials is not only a necessity but also a representation of success in life. Materials should be looked at as a gift of life and symbol of hard work that has paid off.
