Some people believe that personal happiness comes from following your dreams and goals. On the other hand, some believe that the only way you will find happiness is through the joy of others. Are you more likely to be happy if you focus on your personal goals or will you be happier if you focus on the happiness of others? Which will make you the happiest? If you follow your dreams or what you find to be is most important to you in your life? Or will doing goodwill for others or doing things to improve the world that we live in make you happier? 

I believe that you will be more likely to be happy if you focus on your personal goals versus if you are solely focusing on the happiness of others to whether you feel happiness or not. I say this because, to me, if you are only getting joy from when doing things for others or to improve the world around you, what happens when you've run out of people to help or things to make better around you? Are you then not able to be happy anymore? What if, no matter how much you try to help a person to make them happy, that they just aren't satisfied with your help? It would leave you feeling very worn out I would expect.

If you focus on what is important to you in your life and work towards those goals, you will inevitably feel a sense of accomplishment inside. When you are doing things in your life that you believe in, and that really matter to you, you won't feel like you are just living day to day and like you don't have any meaning with what you are doing. Now some might say, well, don't you think you would be happier if you were helping others instead of just worrying about yourself? To that, I would say you can't be in a position to make others happy when you aren't that way with yourself first.

When someone is truly happy with themselves and what they believe in, it can't help but to be noticed by others. It radiates from within, outwards. If you are at your happiest and most content in your life by following your hopes and dreams, you would then be willing to make others around you happy also. So, then you would be making others happy as well. But, you should always start happy from within first.
