Throughout time it has been customary that humans have had a constant dilemma in order to achieve success through various means. It has been apparent that most individuals have taken steps in life to become sucessful, whether that been in various group settings that require a cohesive "group" mentatlity that requires compromise of various personality sets that give in to a more passive nature of dominance; or have a more assertive nature and revile in the nature of be competitive amongst the various people involved in those particular scenarios. Rather than striving to achiveve success, many people in today's world look to minimize exposure to failure, rather than have a competitive drive in order to achive the opitmal outcome for theirselves.

Success is never a "one size" methodology for people looking to achive the results they seek in life. This is apparent with various groups looking to achive results without putting the necessary development into themselves in order to reach the desired outcome. The nature of humans give way to a cooperative nature in some insantances, due to the fact that we are social beings. However, the other aspect that is a constant reminder of survival of human instinct, gives way to a competitivness that overcomes this "cooperativeness" for certain invidiuals who are constantly looking to be the best at what they do.

In summary, while cooperation is optimal in order to satisfy our human social instinct, that soley depends on that invidiual's personality set; rather than others who strive and have a competitive streak to be the best. Not all human beings have an assertive quality to themselves and strive and thrive in enviorments that support group mentality that specializes the strenghts of particular invidiuals to give optimal effort in a small segment of speciality, to achieve successs of the group. This is optimal in a work place team setting enviornment. However, competition for those that have an entreprenuer type mentality will look at all things in their lives as competition to be the best and never quit. These people usually achive great results, but in the end are consumed by their competitive nature, to always look to win. Based on these factors, "Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition?", that question is ultitmatley subjectively based on the invidiual's personal charactersitics. If they are more passive, team and goal oriented, then cooperation is optimal. If they are assertive, entreprenurial and a "go-getter", then competition is the focus for achieving success. 
