Materialism is a disease that infects many of us.  It is something people will do on instinct now and it affects some people more strongly than others. It is my belief that modern society should be criticized for being materialistic and that everyone should take active steps to correct their behaviors in that regard.  Aquiring a never ending list of ultimitely meaningless objects like some deranged crow is spiritually empty and a symptom of something wrong. Instead I will argue that people should try to return to doing things that really count in the long run like raising a family and engaging in pursuits that strengthen both mind and body.

While some people are more affected by materialism than others enough are afflicted that all of American society and culture are poisoned by it. You seemingly cannot go anywhere without being bombarded with signs and advertisements seeking to sell something to you.  Everywhere you see stores selling an enormous amount of badly made junk.  It begins in childhood with parents buying their children an endless stream of cheaply made disposable toys in an effort to keep them occupied.  As adults they then go on to crave that sensation they get when they buy something new and keep that up throughout the rest of their life.  It is little different from having an addiction and I can't think of any benefit it brings that lasts any decent amount of time.  While it is nice that our society has progressed to the point that people are able to engage in this type of behavior and still manage to not starve I don't think it is anything to be proud of.  Being a consumer for a bunch of companies that make ultimately uneccesary items seems like a shallow way to go through life.

Some will say that being materialistic is what drives our economy and without enormous amounts of consuming this whole house of cards will collapse.  To that I say maybe it should.  If people are really serious about the environment and equality for every person everywhere in the world and all of that crap then how does a society seemingly devoted to unnecessarily consuming things make sense?  I don't propose we raze everything and return to a style of life the Amish practice but something in between would surely be better.  
