Images and impressions have too much of an effect on individuals. When navigating social media, we are exposed consistently to a facade - influencers, friends, family and coworkers put the 'best' of their lives on the internet which reflects very little of their actual personal lives. More often than not, particularly on Instagram, a social media app that allows users to upload and share photos, has created a world where we assume one's disposition or personality based on a cultivated persona or merely a series of pictures - and this series of pictures and/or persona effect how that individual may see themselves. 

On the topic of Instagram, an example in particular comes to mind - shared couple accounts. These shared couple accounts basically showcase the presumed daily lives of an attractive and 'relateable' couple, that could essentially be considered an influencer account, especially if they showcase particular products for particular brands. These couple accounts get people invested in their personal relationship, which result in real-life people basing their happiness with their relationship on how 'happy' the couple account seems to be. This, in-turn, may cause that individual to put pressure on their partner to behave a certain way, or treat them the way they see that couple interacting. All the while, the consumer of this content is not aware of the health of the actual relationship offscreen. If that couple account announces a break up, you see comments such as "omg you were #couplegoals" or "i don't believe in love anymore if you aren't together anymore." It's incredibly bizarre to see these comments on a relationship they never truly knew, and they only witnessed what that couple wanted the world to see. What if the realationship this individual idolized was toxic, or abusive, or each participant in the relationship was severely hurting becuase of their commitment to posting content for their audience - does that become the standard for a 'healthy' relationship because it was purely happy on the internet? People are basing their worth and relationships on facades and carefuly curated content rather than actually understanding what makes a healthy relationship. Another example includes this idolship of influencers and streamers, with users putting these individuals on a pedal for simply being attractive and entertaining, then being immensely shocked once they interact with this person in real life, finding out they are completely different from the facade. Comedian Bo Burnham comes to mind specifically, as he often talks about how people comment on why he is so introverted offline/in-person and so flamboyant and outgoing on stage. This idolship has affected Bo Burnham's mental health drastically, from performing regularly becuase he enjoyed it, to quitting comedy for 5 years because he would have panic attacks on stage. The pressure to maintain this 'image' Bo unknowingly conveyed to his fans absolutely damaged his mental health, to the point of disappearing from entertainment. Additionally, Bo has created some questionable content in his childhood, and has held himself accountable for these acts, however, his fans that idolize him consistently excuse him or pretend that content never existed becuase of how much they like him as an entertainer - rather than learning from his mistakes, those who idolize his comedian persona rationalize his problematic behavior, and essentially give it a pass, which also impacts their perception on what is good and bad. A final example as to how influential images and impressions have on people is the current music industry as it stands. Musicians are no longer encouraged to put out their music for their own enjoyment, but must portray this persona that is marketable, and that has the potential to go viral. Musicians then must become influencers at the expense of their art, and must cultivate all aspects of an influencer persona in order to get people to listen to their music, which also has to have potential to become viral. It dampens artistic creativity, and devaules their art and music in favor of public appearances in order to "make it" in the industry. With this persona created, it sends a message to that musicians audience, and that message has the power to impact the way the audience views success, the creative process, political views, etc. It puts too much power into the hands of a random person, and we are unable to see beyond what that persona demonstrates. 

Social media has played a massive part on greatly effecting individuals - people base their judgements, perceptions of health and how successful/happy they see others to be online and make dispositional judgements on lives based on appearances and impressions they recieve from the surface. In order to combat this, there should be more emphasis on genuineness in social media, rather than a copy-paste virality template given to every influencer which ultimately guides and impresses on individuals consuming the media. What individuals see on social media, images or even public personas and impressions are too impressionable on them, which absolutely effects their individual perception of worth, success and public opinion. 
