People are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals. Thoughts differ in this space, but when approached from a realistic standpoint, it becomes clear that attempting to make others happy is often futile, and will more often result in frustration rather than happiness for onesself. 

While happiness may indeed be found along the way while focusing on the happiness of others, it is not likely to be found. Some individuals simply want attention, and only your attention will make them "happy." If you stop paying attention to them, they are no longer happy. Thus, at the expense of yourself, you cannot make these people happy and move on to improving the happiness of other people; it is a never-ending battle. Others, along the same vein, will always find somethign wrong with what you do for them or provide for them. You can tire yourself out endlessly trying to find the perfect gift or the perfect service you can provide them with to make them happy, but it will never happen. These people live to critique others, and are never satisfied. Pursuing this will all but guarantee that you will not find happiness along the way. 

There is something to be said for those who do find happiness and fulfillment while engaging in charitable pursuits or otherwise providing service for disadvantaged people. They are often viewed as heroes, and perhaps it is the treatment they receive for improving humanity that brings them happiness rather than the improving itself. I recognize, however, that I tend to approach things from a pessimistic view, which colors my opinion here. I believe that, for the most part, people are selfish, and their actions are typically motivated by what they think they can gain from it rather than true charity or generosity. 

Rather than pessimistic, I feel that I am a realist, and pursuing my own dreams and personal goals is what brings me happiness. I believe that I am not entitled to anything in life, and I do not expect much from the people around me. If people are kind or generous or helpful, it is a pleasant surprise that I accept graciously. But I do not expect it. By not relying on others for my own happiness or expecting much from them, I am not disappointed by them, which overall increases my happiness. 

All of that being said, I do spend time trying to make others happy, such as my loved ones, which does sometimes make me happy. But I don't think that is a reliable way to pursue personal happiness. Thus, it is probably best to pursue personal happiness by doing both of these options. It is important to pursue your dreams, but you shouldn't necessarily pursue your dreams to the exclusion of something else. 

Many say that life is all about balance. And for the most part, I think that's pretty true. If you focus exclusively on your own happiness, you will surely have intense lows that occur when you fail to achieve something or your plan is impacted by events out of your control. If you focus exclusively on the happiness of others, you will likely be disappointed and frustrated by others, as I discussed previously. So it is probably best to take a combined approach. Follow your dreams, because no one else can follow them for you, and you'll never know how great you could be if you never pursue them. But you should remember the people close to you, the people you love, along the way, and make sure to treat them kindly and with care. If the people you love the most are unhappy, it is difficult to ignore that and be happy yourself. So in such a context, personal happiness can be achieved in part by focusing on the happiness of the people you love. 

As it is often said, the world is never black or white, good or evil, but rather there are countless shades of grey in-between, lots of "it depends" or "maybes." Achieving personal happiness will come from those shades of grey. You must remember to look out for yourself, and to pursue your dreams and wants, because no one else will do it for you. But you have to pay attention to your loved ones and sometimes take time away from your personal goals to make sure that they are taken care of and happy. People are more likely to be happy if they focus both on their personal goals and on the happiness of others, the key is finding balance. 
