Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people? In a world where billions are spent on marketing and ad campaigns, social media influencers carefully craft their images, and people are cancelled for the impressions they leave on others, the clear answer to this question is yes. 

Billions are spent ever year by companies to understand their comsumers behaviour and help increase product sales. Clearly, this money is well spent and increases sales or the CEOs and Board Members would be negligent in their fuduciary responsiblity to their shareholders. This investment in understanding the consumer and "big data" affords companies the ability to create predictive consumer models allowing them to streamline the production pipeline and anticipate consumer desires and responses. Information is power and this power is used to influence the consumer.

Celebrities and social media influencers have teams of PR agents and staff to help ensure they maximize their return and are able to understand their audience. Both groups, again, strive to stay relevant to their audience because this relevancy helps improve their bargaining power and leverage when it comes to their own revenue generation. Those who understand their audience best are able to stay relevant regarless of shifts in the times or preference in social media platforms. Information and understaing allow those with command of this knowledge to transcendce change.

Contrary to popular belief, though sex doesn't actually sell. According to numerous studies sexual advertising increases views but fails to increase sales conversion. Do people buy a Carl's Jr burger because of bikini? When was the last time a Coca-Cola or Pepsi advertisment actually persuaded anyone to purchase their non-brand preference? Has anyone ever left a restraunt because they serve Pepsi instead of Coca-Cola? These are, of course, rhetorical questions showing that advertising and image curation aren't always successful. The failure of these advertisements is about a lack of consumer understanding not a breakdown in the power structure of consumer information and the role it plays in society.

The impact of impressions and images on people and the effect they can have on people is most clearly seen in political propoganda. Using information to wield politic power malactors can, and have, used propoganda throughout history to advance their own causes to the detriment of the body politic and minority groups. No clearer an example of this phenomena is there than Nazi Germany and Joseph Goebbels. Power, no matter it's form, needs to be wielded with responsibility and care.

