How can people achieve more success- by cooperating with each other or by competing against one another? This is a question that can spark controversy and intense debate. Personally, I believe that cooperation is superior to competition when it comes to the success of the human race as a whole. Individuals may find more success via competition, but in order for a society to be successful, people must work together towards common goals.

Competition favors those who are born with certain advantages- wealth, parents with important connections, good looks, fierce personalities, etc. When society is set up so that the most competitive are at the top, such people are able to dominate. That's good for them, but what about everyone else? What of those who are born into poverty or who are disabled in some way? Should disadvantaged people be left to suffer and lead miserable lives? I don't believe so.

When a society values cooperation over competion, life can be better for everyone. People can work together, helping each other and showing kindness and mercy. Everyone can live a decent life, even if they are disadvantaged in some way. Additionally, when everyone in society has the chance to contribute, advancements could be made more quickly. 

I think that if everyone were more cooperative, life could be much more pleasant than it is now. People would be under less stress. I would venture to guess that mental illnesses would decrease, and perhaps physical illnesses would as well. When people feel mentally and physically fit, they are able to be more productive. They would probably be more creative and innovative as well. This would benefit everyone.  

Competition can cause different groups to hate each other. People who don't do well may believe (correctly or incorrectly) that they are the victims of sexism, racism, classism, etc. People who succeed may look down on others, and have very little empathy. When groups grow to hate and resent each other so much, violence may erupt. So, more competitive societies may have more riots, mass shootings, and other crimes than cooperative societies do. When people cooperate together, they are more likely to have empathy for one another and treat each other with respect. 

People who have a competitive nature might not like living in a more cooperative society, because that might mean that they wouldn't be able to amass huge amounts of resources for themselves at the expense of everyone else. Too bad! Preventing the suffering of many is much more important than protecting the wealth of a few. In the end, cooperation is better for most individuals and for society as a whole. 
