What is happiness? Where does it come from? Certain people seem find happiness in their personal endeavors and others seem to find happiness within the happiness of others. The former spend their lives focused on their own goals, and the latter spend their time finding and helping those in need. But the people that are more happy are those that focus on their own goals.

People who are always helping others are less happy because they tend to neglect themselves. Many times, parents exemplify this. Often, parents who marry and have children young, put all their time into the happiness of their children. They are constantly worried about the health, the safety, and the overall growth of their children. They forget about their own health, safety, and their own growth. Parents set their lives aside for their kids. As a result, they never truly get the opportunity or the time to truly pursue their own goals and adventures; they don't get to pursue their dreams. Even if they do find the time, it is not a full fledged effort, and they often won't be able to do so until later in their lives resulting in regrets.

Another reason people who focus on themselves are happier is because people who always look to help others are taken advantage of. Others like to ask the latter for favors because they find it very difficult to say "no" when someone asks them for help. The big issue with this is that one favor snowballs into many favors and this makes a helper feel like they need to continue saying "yes" because they don't want to be viewed as an unkind or selfish person. It makes them unhappy because it becomes a subconcscious burden on their shoulders and before they know it, they have taken on too many tasks. One person can't do it all; when they try to, they become frazzled, depressed, worried, concerned, and overworked. All things that are very far from happiness.

On the other hand, some people find helping others to be more rewarding because they believe that is their purpose in life. They believe that helping others makes them a better person and increases their mental and physical wellbeing. Although this is the case, the costs outweigh the benefits, and their happiness remains short-term.

Overall, when people focus on themselves, it gives them the time and energy to get what they really want out of life. Therefore, people who put their minds toward their own goals are likely to be happier than those who spend their lives trying to make the people around them happy, especially in the long run. So, to answer our first question? Happiness cannot be found in another person. It comes from within. 
