Happiness means different things to different people, as does the means to which people achieve it.  Some believe happiness stems from pursuing one's goals. Others believe happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others or on the improvement of humanity.  Though happiness often derives from a combination of these two thoughts, people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals. 

Happiness comes from within, and it is difficult to achieve happiness if one is dissatisfied with themselves.  Personal goals are important to achieving and maintaining contentment and happiness in life.  In having, striving to achieve, and eventually achieving one's goals, one will feel a sense of accomplishment, pride, and happiness. Once a person feels fulfilled and happy, they can then focus on the happiness of others.  

A teacher recently spoke to some friends about how fulfilling her work was and how happyit made her. She loved seeing the joy and wonder on her second grade students faces as they learned new things, and she felt very satisfied with her job.  She loves kids, so working with them and finding ways to create positive experiences in the classroom brought her a lot of joy.  However, she struggled with feeling happy in her life as a whole. Those hours each day spent making others happy added to her happy feelings, but they did not make her feel completely happy. For that, she needed to look at her own needs and strive to meet them. 

Some might say that helping others achieve happiness can help a person find happiness along the way.  However, is it complete happiness if you are always thinking of others and not of yourself?  Will making others happy change your innermost feelings?  It might change your surface and immediate feelings and sense of happiness, and it might bring happiness along the way, but it won't last long-term.  For that, you must seek happiness from within, not from outside sources. 

Both achieving one's personal goals and making others happy can generate feelings of happiness.  It feels as good to bring joy to others as it does to personally feel happy.  However, the way to truly maintain happiness for the long-term is to focus on one's personal goals.  Once that is achieved, helping others or improving humanity will follow, leaving one to feel even more fulfilled, joyous, and happier than ever.       


