Should we believe our lying eyes? That conundrum seems more relevant to our modern world than ever before. We are inundated with videos and pictures, trying to tell us a story, trying to shape our thoughts. But, where is the line between information and lies, and what are the costs that society pays when these images are misconstrued as truth?

The magician uses a shiny object to distract their audience. This has been the case for centuries, but a magician's audience knows they are being tricked. They are "in" on the deception. Modern advertisers have no such understanding with their audience. They seek to manipulate and are willing to mislead, rather than simply to entertain. These manipulations are not harmless, they have a societal cost and that cost is the loss of truth, the loss of honesty.

Many people consider Abraham Lincoln, a man most famous for his honesty, as the paragon of American politicians. That seems antiquated and quaint in today's political royal rumble. Our politicians lie with impunity, and we either brush it off or accept their falsehoods as fact. We no longer care about fighting for the truth, we care only about fighting for what we believe, regardless of it's fiction. 

People no longer care about the truth. Perception is more important than reality. We like it this way, we like that others have done the thinking for us. We like that we can choose our own reality, even if it is no more real than a video game or a movie. We are detached from the truth and we are enslaved in the cages of our own prejudices, reinforced by a concocted bubble of self-affirming thoughts and pictures. 

Yes, there has always existed deception. That is not new or noteworthy. But, what is new, is the frequency, the sophistication and the deep pervasiveness in which lies have infiltrated our existences.  One bad actor, with a slick appearance, can instantly influence millions of others and that is unique to our modern age. 

Of course, people are more sophisticated and educated, but that does not mean that we are somehow immune to misinformation. In fact, it seems we can always find someone to join us in our ignorance, perhaps to even revel in it. 






