The way people, products, or places appear can often differ from the actual reality of their situation. It is nearly impossible for someone to know the entire reality of anyone or anything without having personal experience. People are often shown only what the producer wants them to see, which often times is only a positive perception. Generally speaking, this is only half of the story. The goal with media, advertisers, people, and promotors (among other people) is to make the audience feel the way they want them to feel, rather than how they may actually feel if they were to form their own opinion based on all the facts. 

An obvious example of how images have an effect on people is the use of pictures as advertisements by fast food and sit down restaurants. Most of us would agree that the food we receive does not exactly resemble the food in the images we see on TV and ads. A McDonald's or Burger King hamburger is not stacked neatly to perfection when it's handed to us by an employee. If these places used actual photographs of their food, they would not look nearly as appealing and consumers would not spend as much money on these items.

Another example of influence is reality TV shows.  The audience is not shown every second of every cast person's life during the TV series. The producers and media team choose the clips and encounters they want shown for each cast member to give their audience either a good or bad perception of that particular cast member. They can piece together clips that are not necessarily in order and make it seem like that was the order of events. They can only show the good side of someone if they want the audience to like the person or they can only show the person being dramatic if they want viewers to watch the show to see what happens next.

A third example of consumers being influenced is with product advertising. We are not shown the pros and cons of any product. Car dealerships are only going to show the positive aspects of buying a certain car. For example, if the vehicle is not great on gas mileage, they'll leave that out of the advertisement and put a positive spin on it saying what it CAN do well. Clothing brands are only going to show the positive sides of their clothes. They may have a beautiful shirt, but the material isn't the best and consumers don't know that just based on the ads they see.

In conclusion, images and advertisements definitely have a large effect on people. They force people to have the opinion that they want portrayed without allowing them to have all sides of the story and form their own opinion which may differ from what the advertisement is hoping for.

