Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?  Look around at the shelves of the stores we visit.  We're overwhelmed with choices, with sometimes very little substance to back it up.  Look at the movie stars we worship, while knowing little to nothing of their personal lives or how they are as actual, functioning human beings.  Do we ever step back and take a deep breath and wonder how we got to this place, or better yet, where it's going in the future? 

Should we question how much these impressions and images have affected us on a subconcious level?  I would argue that images and impressions are wired into our DNA as human beings.  We're visual creatures.  We have been since the dawn of man.  But the real question is whether or not this is a good thing or a bad thing.  I would argue that this is a good thing when images and impressions are taken into account along with the actual substance of what is being told or sold to us.

Some would argue that maybe we should become a society where we place less emphasis on these images and impressions.  They'll say we should focus solely on the contents of the package and not the outer layer.  I would argue that idea goes against everything it means for us to be human, and that being human and using our senses, especially our vision, makes us better overall.  Where would we be if we weren't able to trust our senses?

We as humans are meant to take things in from a visual perspective.  It's wired into our DNA.  When we see someone we like, there's no way of indicating what that person is like on the inside until we've talked to them and gotten to know them, but we have to go with the visual image we're taking in from the outside.  We can't just switch the way that we're wired as human beings.

In an ideal world maybe human beings wouldn't care about how things look on the outside, or how items on the shelf are presented to us.  We would be able to glance at something and know immediately whether it lacked substance or not.  In the real world unfortunately, we're unable to do that.  As human beings we have to do what has worked for us for thousands of years.  We're visual creatures that are going to keep using our eyes first, and then worry about the rest of it later.  It seems to have worked for us pretty well so far.
