     Our eyes, are they the windows to the soul, or the windows to manipulation. In our daily lives we are exposed to image after image, advertisement after advertisment. They make an undeniable impression on us. Our very clothes and accessories are walking bilboards for the wandering eyes of any given passerby to gorge themselves on. But what do these images do to our minds, our sense of togetherness, and our souls? 
     The impressions made by advertisments and the behaviors and style of public figures are ruining our lives. At our core, we are nothing but anxiety ridden monkies looking for the shiniest banana in the bunch. Turn on any television and you'll be force fed a politician in a beautiful suit, with a beautiful spouse, trotting out onto a stage like a purebred dog at a dog show. This politician could be as dumb as a box of rocks, but the media wants you to lust for them and their shiny teeth and eyes. Their qualifications? It doesn't matter! Did they possibly violate a girl in a drunken stupor in college? Maybe, but who cares! Look how handsome! Time and time again we see it play out in the media, and time and time again the shineir package wins the prize. If we put the same sort of energy into picking our doctors and auto mechanics, there would hardly be enough people left to consume these consumerized images and impressions we're fed on the daily. Why, just a few years ago a man was elected to president of the United States of America with the qualifications of a TV stint, a trail of failed businesses, bankcruptcies, and sexual harassment cases and not a single lick of work in politics or any knowledge of law. If that isn't evidence that something is wrong with the way things are, I'm not sure what is. 
     Some will say that these images and colorful rebranding of celebrities and politicians doesn't actually affect anything. That the last US President was elected fairly and by sane just people who only wanted a change, to shake things up. To this I say, please stop consuming so much propaganda. There have been many less attractive candidates, to expound on this particular example, who have failed. Two from both sides of the aisle, if that aisle is millionaire buisnessman and actual politician, would be Ross Perot and Bernie Sanders. Both men are a bit too uncool to be rebranded for media consumption, both men failed to become president of the united states. Neither have sexual harassment charges or bankruptcies or failed buisnesses behind them, at least not so many that they're common knowledge. Neither do these two men blatantly participate in nepotism. Still, they failed. 
     More to this point is the cult of celebrity in general. If a celebrity buys a product, and that celebrity is deemed good in the eyes of the public or the eyes of the media covering them, that product is now popular. If a celebrity is not popular, or is viewed or presented as a bad person, the things they enjoy and promote suddenly are lackluster. These people are only human beings who have jobs that put them in our constant view, not experts, not doctors, not lawyers. Yet, time and time again, their involvement with things will create a drive for the product. When people see these celebrities the concept of reality is almost completely lost. A Superhero endorses a product, or a canditate. Who would tell Batman they won't vote for his candidate? If you think about it, the manipulation used is obscene to the point that it's legality is puzzling.  
     While I have no plans to throw away my television or my phone, and I don't want to encourage anyone else to do such things, I do hope that there is a balance to be struck. Somehwere out there an answer to this problem exists. We must be able to find a place where we can turn on the magic light box, see what is inside, and know the same way we knew in the days of cave drawings that what we saw before us was not the real deal, and that we must use our cunning lest we be eaten by wolves. 
