What is in a look? What draws us to a person or product? Often we see a person talking and rather than listen to what they say, we spend our time looking at them, focusing on their hair, their clothes, the way they stand or move, etc. We don't really pay attention to the words coming out of their mouths. Why is that? If we really listen to what they are saying, we might have to actually think about what they are saying and what it means. Often people don't really say anything of value or if they do say something, it's hidden by innuendos. People are so worried about offending anyone or saying how they truly feel, that they tend to hide their true feelings with jokes or irrelevent banter. Often products as well, are represented as one thing, but are actually something truly different if you take the time to really look at it. Advertising is such a facade these days. So many ads and commercials focus on sparkle and shine of something, rather than it's true purpose. People like bling. People like shiny and new. The advertisers are betting on it. They literally put more energy on making a product shine, than telling us what it actually does. 

It is true that most people these days are easily offended and take most things people say to heart or as a personal attack. People can't truly express themselves without coming off as crude and insensitive. If a comedian makes a joke about a paralyzed person, people get offended. When in fact, if you ask a lot of people that are paralyzed if they found the joke offensive, most times they will say no. If they themselves are not offended, why is it that people who aren't even paralyzed get offended? It is true that some people who are paralyzed will say yes they were offended, but most times that is not the case. Some people who are paralyzed will tell you that they have had to find things to laugh about because their situation was so dim that they deeply needed to find something to laugh at. Most of the time, when we find ourselves in a situation that is hopeless, finding something to laugh at, is the only thing that brings any light to our life. If we, the ones in the wheelchair, can find humor in our situation, then why is it that people who aren't in our situation, cannot find the same humor? True, this isn't always the case. There are some jokes that just aren't funny, no matter who you are, or what situation you are in. Some jokes ARE insensitive and crude. But most times, they really aren't. They are meant to bring joy to an unjoyous situation. 

When you watch a commercial and see a product, there's music, there's lights, there's sparkle. The advertisers put so much money and emphasis for example in a new car. Wow, look at the leather seats, the awesome heated steering wheel, the heated seats, the sunroof that opens all the way to the back of the car. But they don't talk about the price, or the dependability of the car. The main thing a car is for is getting from point a to point b, safely, and effectively. They talk about that 3 row seater car and how it will cost $100 to fill up or how you have to fill up every 3 days because it's a gas guzzler. They don't talk about the exhaust or what a HUGE carbon footprint that super awesome suv will leave on this earth. They don't talk about how it's so roomy for your kids, but how the bigger the car, the further away you will be from your kids, the less you will interact with your kids, etc. There's something to be said for the family with the small suv where the mom can turn around and literally touch her kid's knee to soothe them when they are crying or tell them it's ok and look them in the eye when saying it. You can't do that in a bigger car. Yes, big, shiny, sparkly new cars are awesome and people probably wouldn't turn their head to take a second look without all the glitz and glam to peak their interest. And that's how the advertisers make their money. That's how the big car dealers make billions of dollars a year, by advertising with a bang. Without it, they might seem dull and boring. No one would go out and buy a car they really can't afford. People would find cheaper, smaller options, rather than that gas guzzler of a Tahoe or Expedition. It's the game. That's how it works. Get em in the door and the rest is easy. 

This is how the world works. There are facades everywhere we look. If we as a people actually took a minute to really really think about the impact of what people are saying or doing or the impact of buying that new big fancy 3 row car, we might be disgusted in ourselves; or at least disappointed in ourselves. Disappointed that we bought into the scheme. Disappointed that we got suckered in, that we let ourselves get suckered in. We can claim ignorance, but in all honesty, we did it to ourselves. We chose to not look past the facade. We chose to take things at face value. This is life. This is what we do. We are humans. We are flawed.   

