Society is extremely materialistic. My opinion is that being materialistic is not healthy for either you or your community and should be avoided. I believe it is healthy for people to criticize the materialistic behavior of modern society. People work hard to earn their money and the reason they do this is to buy goods and make their lives better. That is their right, but at what cost? I will explore some reasons why using hard earned wealth for materialistic living is not the best use of a person's resources, nor is it healthy, nor does it contribute to society as a whole.

People who accumulate material possessions forget that there is a greater purpose on earth than simply living for themselves. They cannot hug a picture hanging on the wall. They cannot find love and statisfaction from a collection of baseball cards or cars. They simply leave a void where social contact should belong.

What happens to these material items when this person is no longer here. Do they have value and worth to their children or benifactors? When people collect so much that is material they are leaving a burden to those who have been left behind. What do they do with these material items? How do they dispose of them? Unless they have a monitary value they become an unnecessary burden to others.

It has been said that using wealth to collect material items benefits society because at their death the person can give them to causes and charities, but the causes and charities would be much better off by having the wealth in the form of cash when the person is still alive.

A person has every right to spend their wealth in anyway they see fit. If this means that a person prefers to collect material items that is their choice. I believe it leaves them lonely and unfullfilled. People were born to be social beings and to help each other. Using ones wealth to further that purpose is far better for an individual than using their wealth on material items. I find it extremely appropriate to criticize modern society for being materialistic. By doing so it shows a person's priorities and what they value in life.
