Madonna said it herself in the '80s - we really are living in a material world, but is that necessarily a good thing? Theorists from Marx to Chomsky have pondered this question, and a barrage of night-time TV ads purport that we're really not complete unless we buy this thing for $19.99, "as seen on TV". However, with Generation Z coming of age in the aftermath of two recessions and a fundamental re-evaluation of our shared moral values as a society, I would argue that yes, modern society should be critiqued for placing too much emphasis on material possessions at the cost of other values - specifically, community and a shared sense of self.

In 2022, we're still not yet fully recovered from a global pandemic, one that has been partially prolonged by a lack of empathy and understanding on the part of others. At the start, people with means could use their possessions - specifically, vacation homes away from population centers - as a coping mechanism to deal with the threat, but this was simply a way of forestalling the inevitable. Holing up in a vacation villa in the Hamptons was never going to fix the problem, just push it on down the road for later. The actual solution was one that had nothing to do with how much money or properties one has, but how much value someone places on their neighbor's life, particularly if they're less well off than they are.

There are valid critiques to be made of non-capitalist societies - for all of the advances Cuba has made in providing healthcare to their population, for example, many of these are driven by an oppressive regime that stifles dissent and jails its intellectuals. But humans are humans, and even the best intentions can be corrupted by those seeking power by any means. This does not negate an indictment of capitalism as a predatory force.

I believe that in order to directly compare outcomes, we need to first treat equity among all strata of society as the goal that we're after. In this regard, materialism - and the capitalist underpinnings of it - has seemed to have failed us as a whole in 2022.
