"Appearances are everything!" "Perception is more important than reailty!" "Appearances can be deceiving." "Don't judge a book by its cover." All of these statements represent common beliefs about appearances, and although some are framed positively while others are framed negatively, all reflect the commonly held belief that appearances are often mistaken for reality. 

The fields of marketing, advertising, and sales are predicated on the ability to create impressions based on appearances, and often only superficial appearances. Advertisements often create awareness and sell products because, with very little or no substance, they make consumers feel a certain way. For example, consumers may come to desire a perfume without smelling it, a food product without tasting it, or an experience without experiencing it, because it is associated with attractive music, celebrities, models, scenic imagerey, or anything else that arouses desirable feelings and emotions. As a consumer society, many of us take this for granted without being at all critical. 

It is likely considered more problematic when, for example, we vote for a politician without knowing much at all about their record or stance on issues or their competence, but their smile, tone of voice, and quoting of a few key phrases and slogans makes us feel good. Some have even observed that U.S. presidential elections can be quite accurately predicted on the basis of which male candidate has the fullest and thickest head of hair. Equally problematic is being influenced by a popular celebrity, such as an actor or a sports figure, who has strongly held beliefs but little insight into an issue. We tend to mistake their expertise within their discpline or craft with generalized expertise to areas completely outside their domain. To like something or dislike something based on shallow arguments from someone we find attractive or admire withint their field, is mistake appearances for reality. Perhaps most potentially harmful is to partner with someone, in marriage, in parenting, in business, or any other major life venture, without truly knowing them. To "fall in love" or "trust" someone based on their superficial charm and good looks is an experience that many have had, only to result in heartbreak and devastating financial loss or worse.

Many will argue that while this is true of many others, it is not true of them. They might argue that they engage only their rational mind in making judgments and decisions. They might argue that they always seek out objective fact before reaching a conclusion. They may argue that they are logical and do not make emotion-based decisions. It is true that some people are more careful and are less gullible and susceptible to the influence of appearances . However, research evidence suggests that even those who are are careful to make logical and rational decisions do sometimes succomb to influence based on appearances. It stands to reason that with the large number of small and large decisions that we must make on a regular basis, some are simply not important enough to fully engage cognitively and so quick impressions formed on the basis on superficial appearances are likely to be quite influential, without the person even realizing it. It might even be the best use of one's time because sometimes it is not important to make the "best" decision, and sometimes the way something makes us veel is very, very important.

I believe we can all think of examples of purchases, judgments, candidate preferernces, stances on issues, choices of people we trust, and more which, if we are honest with ourselves, were based on extremly limited information. Rather we formed an impression based on initial appearances, made a decision, and then moved on. This isn't really even a problem much of the time as many decisions (e.g., which laundry detergent to try) have few negative consequences. However, it is important to exercisee more caution when there is greater risk and repercussions involved, such as in determining a course of treatment for a disease, choosing a candidate whose policies we find to be at odds with our values, choosing a partner, or even making a major purchases such as a house or car that require financial commitment and risk.

In short, there is much evidence, both research evidence and anectdotal evidence, to support the premise that all around us appearances are mistaken for reality. To argue otherwise, even about oneself, is usually quite naive. And I do not view this as entirely irrational. Often the most rational use of one's time and mental energy is make an efficient decision, realizing that not all decisions need to be perfect.
