                    The effect of images and impressions on people is very powerful, in both good and bad ways. One way is through the internet not just the ads. but through social media. People use these to lead you astray but also to guide you. I have seen like on TikTok people doing something they claim is great and that you have got to do it. Yet when a group of people, say teens, go and try it, lots of times something bad comes of it. Someone gets hurt or worse because hey, social media says do it so I had to. Well that is terrible so in that sense that does give us all to much affect on all. 
                    Politicians, I feel are the worst. They always say that hey here is my list of all that I am going to change if you just ellect me. Yes some turn out to be great but there is always the bad ones to. I hate politics by the way, I try and stay clear so much drama comes from talks of politics. and the Entertainers can be just as bad. Though we do have good ones to. But you never really hear about the good ones in the news. Why? Well thats because now adays it seems like all anyone wants to read or hear about is the bad stuff that is happening around the world. We need more good things to be said and showed. Yes we learn from the bad but we also learn from the good and the good makes everyone feel better. 
              I hate it when I go some where to eat and you know how some restraunts have their food posted in pics either online or in their menus, even out on display. You see these and yes they are very appealing to they eyes and it makes you want to order that particular item. Yet, when they bring what you wanted it doesnt even look close to what you saw and then becomes a disapointment where you then are upset and its no longer as appealing. I hate that so much. Or like this one time I ordered an alcoholic beverage that sounded so great especially since I like mint and it had some in it. well let me tell you, It was overpoweringly minty. Way to much of it and I was also eating TexMex food with it, so not a good combination.
                 As far as images goes thats a biggy. Everyone wants to look like some one and mostly its all skinny or built people that are shown in the adds and television. But all people of shapes and sizes ect. are just as important. Lately though I like seeing different types of people being shown because that is real a mix of all kinds is real not just skinny and built. Why does someones body image have to be perfect or based on what someone says it should be. I for one am not a skinny built person but I am in great health. So Im not perfect just as no one else is. 
             But really what is important is that we should all remember not one person or thing is alike. But we can have role models and beautiful things, as long as its all for the good and not the bad. We don't need lies, hate, must be this way not that. We need to have good images and impressions in the world to better shape the generations so that we gain great many good things to happen or change. 
               So yes images and impressions do have an effect on people, I know they have done so to me and I try not to let these things effect who I am and what I want to be. Because I know I only want to see, hear, and know the good not the bad.
