Materialism is what makes the world go round - or does it? Over the past several hundred years the world's population has become more and more materialistic. In the 20th century it has become all about the haves and the have nots. Majory of us spend 90% of our waking time either at work or consumed by the thoughts of work just so we can make more money to purchase the next best thing. The irony is we work our asses off to get THE big thing, but we have no time to truly enjoy it because off to work we go to earn even more money for the next big thing. Materialism has become the death of our society. 
In 2020, when COVID-19 shook the planet, the general population was forced to take a step back from work and stay home to prevent the spread of the unknown, and potentially deadly, virus. It was at this time that it became evident to me that most humans are not able to slow down to enjoy the little things in life, but insted they needed the kick of adrenaline that comes with the buying and selling of products. We no longer are able to be content in our own spaces with our own family & friends. We are no longer able to come together as a society for the greater good for everyone. Instead we are focused on ourselves and the bottom line - making as much money as we can. 
In a way, materialism can be viewed as a positive. It has driven our society to push the boundaries of technology, medicine and every other facet to produce some amazing new products. These products have literally helped save lives. The downfall to this is that we are driven by making more and more money, not necessarily by helping our our fellow human being.  
Materalism currently runs rampant throughout our soceity. It is interwoven in nearly every single decision we make. How can we make more money so that we can consume, and consume, and consume until we drown in all of the things we truly did not need in the first place. When we look back on our lives, it is not going to be the things that we remember - but the people. Materalism has limited our ability to truly connect with one another and make meningful relationships. These days it feels like its more about who you can step on to give yourself the upper hand. Modern society should be critizied for being materalistic becuase this just might implore change. 
