There are many in today's society that would directly associate materialism with capitalism. There are also many who believe that capitalism is flawed, unfair, or unjust and should be eschewed in favor of a more socialistic society. The link between materialism and capitalism provides a number of reasons why materialism is not only NOT a bad thing, but is likely the best for society.  It encourages inovation and a constant drive to improve the products and services we experience in our lives. Materialism/capitalism promotes a work ethic that increases production and effectiveness of the workforce. A society that embraces materialism is just and fair when individual's work output is proportionally rewarded with increased ability to aquire material goods. For these reasons and more, modern society should not only NOT be criticized for being materialistic, but should encourage that outlook.

If all goods and services were locked into their current state of existence - if nothing new were invented or produced, and nothing currently available were ever improved, our standard of living would stagnate. If this had held true in the past, we would still be living the life of cavemen, never inventing the wheel, the horse and buggy, the automobile or other means of transportation that has opened up so much more of the world to each individual. But because people wanted more and better goods and services as they WERE invented and improved, materialism has expanded the world and we are much the better for it.

When society's workers are driven by a work ethic that aims to produce materials in the best, fastest, least expensive, most sustainable or other desirable properties, the output of that work ethic lifts the quality of the products produced. And that improvement makes the materials that those in a materialistic society want and aquire better for all, thus improving society and should be encouraged, rather than criticized.

The added drive provided by materialism creates an "If I want more, I must work more/harder to achieve my desires" environment. Those that work little, get little. Those that work hard, or work more, or provide the most desired products and services are compensated with additional reward, which can then be used to aquire the material things that drove that extra effort. This is a key element of why materialism and capitalism is NOT to be criticized, but  should be encouraged.

In areas where more socialistic precepts hold sway, typically, innovation is stunted, or non-existent (instead only slowly adopted from the improvements developed in materialistic/capitalistic societies). Socialism provides the workers with no incentive to do more, as all reap the same benefits, regardless of their input effort. Socialism has failed in more implementations than capitalism has, only further bolstering support for the materialistic societies, rather than proving that they should be criticized.

While some might try to encourage the "fairness" of everyone getting the same thing as being "just"; it can be seen that such societies fall short in many areas, and the citizens themselves do not garner the benefits to all that come through the innovation, the work ethic and the proportional reward for increased effort that a materialistic/capitalistic society benefits from. These benefits should not be criticized - they should be espoused, rewarded, and encouraged. 
