In the workplace, many people strive to get ahead and be noticed.  Ideally this would not be achieved by knocking down anyone on your way up.  Typically in a persons work life they will experience some kind of competition and struggle to be on top and this can be very stressful.  In my experience this is not the best way to go.
When someone is in a competition at a place of employment, annomosity can arise between co-workers.  This can create a toxic work environment in which things do not get done in a manner that they should.  Corners often get cut in an attempt to quickly finish the tasks given to them in order for them to make themselves look better. Many things can go wrong in this scenario such as sub-par work that is only half done or not done to company standards.  Ideas can be stifled because someone is trying to one up some else and tries to use their idea but with a small change.  Also when you have two people at odds there is conflict that can disrupt each ones productivity. 
Productivity will suffer when co-workers fight.  Annomosity can grow and stretch out to other workers as well.  It creates a web of possible gossip and ill will among other employees that can make the entire area of work unproductive.  The workers will take sides and there will be division amond them that would not exist if the environment was less competitive.  This in turn can cause good employees to leave the company.
The best way to avoid the workings of a toxic environment this can create is to encourage all ideas and discourage competition.  When ideas are put together and collaboration occurs, fresh approaches to tasks can be accomplished.  The lack of animosity can create a more happy worker and happy workers are much more productive and in turn more creative in providing solutions.  Competition can be exhausting so when it is taken out of the equation, workers are more energized when working out tasks and ideas.  They do not have to prove themselves over and over again and this creates a more relaxing and productive atmosphere.
In the long run, people who are able to work together without added stress of competition are more likely to be happy and contribute better to the company and its goals.  The atmosphere that will be created from the active collaberation from the team will create better opportunties for the staff to express themselves and therefore bring about good ideas and solutions to everyday problems.  This is the best way to create success in a workplace and to also aid employee retention. 
