Modern society has lost its focus. There was a time when the functions of life revolved around providing the basic necessities - food, shelter, clothing- because there weren't the convienences of mass retailers and mass production. In these modern times however, you can't pick up your phone without being bombarded with advertisments for anything from medications, cars, food, jewelry, clothes, and vacations. Needs or wants; it's all out there just waiting to be grabbed. 

There are perks to materialism. From small communities to the country, it surges profits and helps with economic growth; fueling further advancements. It provides distration and allows people to escape from the stresses of daily life. It feels amazing to shop and find a great deal. It's exciting to open a new package - a present you sent to yourself! It's so convenient; just pick up your phone, hop on Amazon, and the next day you've got something new to enjoy. How could it be bad? Well that distraction keeps you away from seeing the things that really matter, like the people around you that you love and care about. That easy quick escape only makes you feel better for a moment and then the glow is gone and you just have more useless junk cluttering up your life and your home. Financially, materialism and the need to keep up with the "Joneses" has crippled the country with credit card debt, foreclosues, and homelessness. People find themselves trapped in jobs well into their senior years because they can't afford to enjoy what life they have left. The opportunity costs of blowing our money on junk items that are shoved down our throats by advertisers has taken away the moments and memories we could have with our loved ones and left us with nothing but more problems to fix and more stress to cover.

Materialism in and of itself isn't the problem, the problem is the pain and emptiness we feel in our lives that we use it to cover. It is the capitalist environment that we have been taught to love and hold dear. We define ourselves by what we have and what we own and how much of it we have instead of who we are and what we do, our contributions to those around us and to society as a whole. We need to get back to basics and get real with ourselves and learn how to find joy in the things that really matter - other people and ourselves. You can't buy happiness isn't just a truism - it's the actual truth.
