The beginning of media. Dating back to the 1800's, the purpose has always remained the same. The idea that hundreds or thousands of people either locally or globally can reach out across what has now become time as well as space and find a connection. Originally I believe many forms of media only provided positive impacts on the people of the times, but it seems the more time passes the further we stray from all the good connectivity of the world has done us.

Growing up in this technological age, although seeming perfectly normal as your in it, has been a hinderance on not just myself but many people young and old. with the advances to technology including things like an advanced Web and social media it has allowed for what i believe to be a major decline in how media should be handled worldwide.

Using social media influencers as an example, many wind up with what could be classified as cult like followings for no reason other than popularity or modern trends and interests. Attempting to "keep up with the jonses" so to speak provides a breeding ground of contempt and frustration revolving around what we dont have and what others do.

What use to be a world connected only in small pockets with limited information has turned into a world so interconnected and confusing that not all the information available is accurate and factual. Individuals looking for information about politicians, world events, or public figures would be hard pressed to find anything that could be considered legitimate information without doing a series of checks and balances across multiple forms of media outlets.

Ultimately, while advancements in media have brought the world closer together, I believe we've passed the point of helpfulness and are slowly encroaching into a territory where many forms of media only confuse and hurt the average everyday user. More information is not always the solution and for many has become some of the biggest hurdles they face in an ever changing world.
