In the world we live in, we are constantly bombarded with advertisements and things we are encouraged to believe in. There are times when celebrities or politicians try to convey a message that is not necessarily true, or exaggerate the claims they make. It is impossible to avoid this, but does this have too much of an effect on the people and society?

I think that this definitely has too much of an effect on people and society. Since these things are on television, online, and even on billboards in the outside world, it is impossible to ignore. Seeing and hearing these things over and over again, enables the brain to absorb this information, and even if you are not thinking about it, it is subconsciously there to sway you one way or the other. This leads to people believing things, and doing things that they otherwise would not. 

For example, if I was thinking of making something to eat, but then see an advertisement for McDonalds, or some similar eatery... I would definitely be inclined to order from one of those establishments. Seeing the food in the commercial looking way better than it actually is, will lead me to wanting it even more, even if I have perfectly good food at home. This happens all the time, and even in cases when you are going to vote. The politican will have a great message shown on television or online, which is exaggerated, and make you want to vote for them. There is also the fact that many things about the politician are left out, which are most likely the negative aspects of the person. 

People will say, that these things do not effect them and that we have free will to choose what we want to believe. However, this is not always the case because even without realizing it, our brains are swayed without us even knowing it. Having something put in your head over and over again, will effect you in some way, even if you don't think it is happening. This is even more true for children and younger adults, because they are very impressionable at those ages. 

All in all it is quite obvious that advertisements, images, and impressions have an effect on us, or these corporations and/or people would not spend millions and millions of dollars trying to promote their message. Regardless of whether you think these things are right or wrong, they definitely help to sway you in one way or another!     
