Many people believe that materialism is a sign of success while others believe it is a sign or arrogance.  Surely there is a balance between the two thought processes.  I am convinced that we need to be capable and have a desire to get ahead to live a life that is successful and fulfilling.  At the same time, we shouldn't let the desire for more things overtake our life and define who we are.

It is good that we are productive in our lives and that we want to be able to provide for ourselves and our families.  Those who are lazy, most often won't get ahead in this life.  Those who work hard and put forth ample effort usually are able to provide the things they need and sastify their desire to be useful in their every day lives.  We don't have to be overbearing  to those around us to be successful in accomplishing what we need to do in this life to be viewed as successful.  When we make enough money to provide for our family's needs, then there is no real reason to feel we have to continually get more material things.  It is nice to be able to have nice things, but it is only necessary to have enough things to meet our needs.

Of course, there are many people who are on the extreme end of the materialistic scale who feel that they never have enough.  They think that the only way they can prove their success it to show that they continnuously have the latest and greatest of everything.  They buy more and more to prove how successful they are.  Some people feel that the only real gauge of success is to show your friends and neighbors that you have more than they do.  This is often displayed in the arrogance that a person develops over time.  Those people have a tendency to look down on others who don't dwell on materialism.

So how do we come to a reasonable compromise on this subject?  There may not be one for those who are off the deep end on either side of the spectrum, but hopefully, we can come to some understanding that will be beneficial to all.  When we realize that we should not be measured just by the "things" we own, but by the "person we are", we can begin to set aside some of the material goals and work toward becoming a better person.  Feeling good about who we are and how we treat others is so much better than feeling good about the things we own.  Material items have their place in our lives, but they are not the end-all to the game of life.  When we take our last breath on this earth, we will be remembered for "how we treated others" much more than for "what we owned".  I greatly prefer a lot of good friends to a lot of new things!
