Learning to find your own happiness is a lifelong process. In my experience, the things that make me happy have changed over time. That doesn't negate the happiness I found in my youth, it only means that I am learning and growing in stead of mearly getting older. 

When I was young I was very goal oriented. I made plans, attempted to learn new things that would increase my chances of success, and put much time and energy into chasing those goals. It made me happy to check things off my list. Each new certification, every new responsibility took me closer to achieving my goals. And I did achieve some of them.

I got married young (bad move), which was a huge goal for women of my generation. I'm a baby boomer, and we were told through magazine articles - hello Helen Gurley Brown, books, and movies that the number one goal in a woman's life was to get married and have a career. These things would make us happy. And, for a while, I did think that I was happy. 

After marriage my husband thought my goal should be his happiness - often at the expense of mine. He was all for my career since he had high hopes that I would be able to support the two of us so that he could "do his own thing". And so I attempted to make him happy, which was supposed to make me happy by fulfilling his needs. It worked for a while. But when I wouldn't work two jobs so that he could spend his days playing, he made plans that did not include me. 

Common thought was that I should replace him as soon as possible so that I could continue to work a career that I'd come to dispise, and that no longer made me happy at all. The lesson here is that no one else gets to decide what makes us happy.

Leaving the job I'd had for 20 years was hard and scary, but I'd rediscovered a childhood passion which made no sense at all for a modern day career woman. I moved 2000 miles and entered into a 9 month outdoor education program where I learned survival skills, kitchen table herbal medicine, and wildlife tracking. It made me very happy! 

And the best thing was that I learned that I could make others happy by teaching the thing that I was passionate about. So, in the end, pursuing the thing that brought happiness back into my life lead me to volunteer work which helps other women learn and practice outdoor skills - and everybody is happy!

One often needs to try on several life goals to find out what true happiness really is. There's no shame in changing course at any time if the things that used to be fulfilling turns sour. At different ages and stages of life the meaning of the word "happiness" can shift and turn in unexpected ways. It's important that we recognize when our goals no longer suit us and to be willing to try on different ways of being happy. Be willing to do the crazy things that call out in our dreams. And the next one, too, if the first isn't what we hoped. 

In the best case, our personal happiness will benefit others, spreading happy around us as we live out our own goals and dreams.
