Hey guys, my cat ran across my keyboard and somehow made the text box disappear. That's why I'm restarting here. Sorry if I've blown the data; totally understand if I've missed the bonus.

Don't judge a book by its cover. All that glitters is not gold. Nuggets of wisdom, shrouded in mystery, that are often passed to us as children from adults. Then in the next breath we were told to wash our face, straighten our hair, and don't go out in those ratty jeans! Or we overhear snippets of conversations, "did you see what so and so was wearing?" "The Joneses got another new car, must be nice to have that kind of money to throw around." In reality, many of us fail to look past the surface in myriad ways in our everyday lives. Sometimes this is a necessary tool to make snap judgments, but quite often it is overly relied upon to deliritous effects.

It is a commonly held belief that first impressions are everything. If you can present an outward image of success, and get other people to buy into it, you're already halfway there. The sad truth is that quite often this mentality leads to mountains of debt, as people struggle to present a lifestyle that is in fact above their means. From a nefarious angle, conmen use this power of the first impression to convince  their targets that their over the top promises are realistic. First impressions can be very easily misleading.

In everyday life, we must at times make decisions without much more than a first impression or an image to go off of. Sometimes image can tell quite a lot. If in a new town and seeking out somewhere to eat, the eatery with a clean exterior and bright lighting is geneally a safer bet than a restuarant with a dirty entryway and dead bugs in the window. But sometimes that little hole in the wall is in fact a hidden gem far superior to the hollow neon lights of the bustling diner across the way.

In politics especially, the reliance on projected images for decision making can be easily manipulated by would be politicians. Even the simple R or D by a candidates name is often enough to deter the average voter from seeking any deeper information about a given candidate. Decisions over bills that have consequences spanning years are swayed by who endorsed the bill rather than an actual thorough reading of what is being proposed. For many this is perceived as the necessary option compared to dedicating time to reading all the information independently, but it leaves them at the mercy of deliberate manipulation.

While it may take more time and effort, and sometimes even make us uncomfortable, looking behind the curtain and delving deeper into the substance of any matter is essential if we want to have a more full and accurate assessment of things. More often than not, the surface is a deliberately crafted illusion intended to sway us one way or another. 


