A question that has been asked for quite some time is whether or not a greater sense of happiness comes from a focus on oneself or by focusing on the happiness of others. Personally, while I think these two ideas are connected I fully believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals. My reasoning for this is because I believe a person could achieve more happiness by treating their own problems first before addressing the problems of others, since it leads to a better understanding of self.

The unfortunate truth about society is that we are people who are inclined to look out for ourselves. While we love others and forge relationships with others, we also put our own goals and needs first. This is a natural part of human life. Reaching personal goals is a way to become happier. When you focus on your own personal goals and achieve them you lift your confidence. This newfound confidence makes you love yourself more and brings more positive energy to your life. This is one reason why I think that focusing on your own goals will make you more happy. A second reason I believe this is because it is not beneficial for us to spend our whole lives helping others but not allowing ourselves a win. We could spend a lifetime making others happy, but I don't believe that will make ourselves more happy. The person who does that will still be a hollow person inside. There may be an uplift in happiness by assisting others in that way, but a greater sense of happiness comes from focusing on one's needs. A third reason why I think focusing on one's own personal goals makes them more happy is because of our natural desire to be our own person. When we focus on other's happiness we come very close to being a human door-mat. This can drain the joy out of a person. Always there to serve, but never allowed to express our own feelings. That is no way to live life and can result in a large decline in happiness. By taking time for yourself and putting other people aside you are able to find a greater deal of happiness by learning what you actually want for your own life.

While helping others is certaintly a noble deed, it should not come before helping oneself. Focusing on your own goals and desires will make you a much happier person than just by assisting others your entire life. And with that uptick in happiness comes a better understanding of who you are. These are the three reasons why people are more likely to be happy by focusing on their own personal goals.
