Images and impressions have a profound effect on people nowadays.    From advertisements suggesting what you need to buy to movies and shows informing you of how you behave, we are all being bombarded by this type of messaging.

You can see on Amazon, the same exact product from China repackaged dozens of times and at different pricepoints.  The only real differentiating factor is the packaging and graphics.  These are all created to see which ones will sell better.  

You also see in our political system, candidates that are seemingly vapid outside of thier user group tested preplanned image.  Pepole like Pete Buttigeig and Amy Klobochar are good examples of this.  Candidates that have a small subset of talking parts that are safe and hard to argue with for anyone that consideres themselves a Democrat.  However a close inspection will find that there are a lot of inconsistencies and sometimes examples of profound hypocracy when these touted values are looked for in a candidates past.

This is all a result of marketing becoming very fast and too prevelant in our lives as a result social media decreasing our attention spans.  Every advertisement and political candidate essentually has to compete with the next hot Tik Tok dance.

The arguement can be made that this is a generational divide, that the younger generation understands and can adapt to this type of messaging.  I would say that this type of change in how we process information is unprecidented and at best we just do not know how it may affect us as a society.

With so little time to convince a potential consumer or voter of a thing, marketing must use shortcuts to convey their message.  This leads to content that caters to the lowest common denomenator in terms of substance, leading to the most vapid ideas being sold.  You can have a social media influencer imparting ideas of style and class with a simple reccomendation because that is the whole brand image that they are pushing on you through their channel.

People tend to assign values to ideas through categorization.  The Democratic candidate must beleive in a certain thing, because that is what it means to be a Democrat.  This product must be of a certain quality because that price and packaging somehow need to be justified.  Marketing is aware of these processes and seeks to exploit them.

Essentially, there may not be nearly as much value in the things that we are being sold.  One should be very careful to look for examples of this type of marketing because to not do so is be some somebody else's fool.

