Imagine life withtout anything to motivate oneself?  What is you or the very personal writing this was in an existance where there was nothing to motivate oneself to persue or accomplish.  Every great goals start with motivation and hopefully a plan.  Focus on your personal goals to motivate others achieve their own as well as yourself.  So in this persuasive argument, I am taking the stance one has to first care about their happiness before they can really care regarding someone else's.  

Motivation for self to be happy and be am active partner to affect other healthy:  Being happy and inspiring yourself, will help motivate you and others toward happiness, in theory.  When one is happy, they can inspire others and show their leadership potention.  This hopefully will transfer to other and help with moral, as would in a work environment.  One must have motivation- an internal drive and desire to accomplish even a simple goal.  Motivation is what gets oneself up  in the morning and to care for ones self.  Without motivation, goals will not bring to fruition.  One must first take care of ones self to be of healthy use to others.  

Goals:  How does one discover a goal?  Well, lets start here:  What motivates you or what is something one would like to work towards, such as a college goal for career.  Someone whos vision is severly obstructed may/will find it difficult to lead someone else struggling in the same aresa, especially if other areas are affected as well.  The leader must have stron g skills to guide.  This not only assist one in inner self happiness, but influences the majority that affect.   Im a hypothetical situation, let's say one wants to become a writer.  Well, you would have to have strong English skill (or language skills in one or another native language), to write in the language of readers.  One would need a sytematic thought process, and logical to place thoughts is order.  Also, education is needed and an attitude, as in any profession to continue to keep learning, reading, and researching.  Even is everything you would like to say or all thought are not as clear as one would like them to be, the key is to try!  That's what rough drafts and refinenment are for.  Expreince and refinment will get you to success and celebrate the next stage known as accomplishment.   If one is a happy person, and there is another person struggling with goals, or even how to get started with the brainstormm process, this indivual whom has the skill will be able to guide and direct; sit down with the other person and establish a plan and goals list to start.  This step starting with a happy personal whom has developed into a leader will assist the other person, so in theory, the happy leader is affecting the other, hopefully assisting in their path to happiness and fofillment in their field to develop themself in.  

Accomplishment for self and with goal to affect others:  This is a rich area due to the amount of work put in and the proide one fills getting to this point.  In many cases, one is not only rewarded with the internal feelings or satisfaction and advancement, but will recieve recognition for it.  The important part is to satisfied with ones self most of all.  Educate and encourage others to become strong in the skill, such as becoming and educator in the field.

In closing, for start with onesslf to be happy, and work self goals to influence others positively and healthy.  for ones self, start with Motivation, Goals, and the end result will resut in self accomplisment affecting the personal stability and happiness of the individual.  This individual can then become a influencinal leader affecting other to build them up for their happiness as well.

Thank you for reading


