Competition and cooperation are two different ways that people might interact, to achieve success in a given field or endeavor.  Competition means putting your time and energy towards performing better than other people, so that only you succeed, while cooperation means putting your time and effort towards performing well with other people, so that everyone succeeds.

Cooperation with other people is the best way to succeed.  It means the sharing time, effort, and ideas with other people to achieve a common goal.  Cooperation means that the knowledge and strengths of different people are combined, creating greater results than any one person could achieve on their own.  It motivates and inspires people to work harder, as new exciting ideas are created, and people feel better knowing that other people are willing to help them when they need it.  Cooperation creates a feeling of unity and teamwork, that removes doubt and fear and replaces them with enthusiasm and confidence.

Some great examples of the power of cooperation are sports teams, in which people put aside their differences and work together towards winning games and championships.  Another strong example is the cooperation that occurs within a family, as different members help around the home with different tasks, doing much than any one member of the family could do on their own.  The spirit of cooperation also helps the people within a family deal with their problems, so that no one feels alone in their struggles.  This is also true within a group of friends.  People who work well on a team in a company are able to succeed and achieve great things together by cooperating, by combining their knowledge and skills to solve problems and complete projects.

Some would argue that competition is the better way to motivate people to achieve success, because they harder for the rewards that winning will bring them, while they might not try as hard if they are just cooperating with other people.  However, competition has many problems that go with it.  It induces people to lie, cheat and steal.  It makes people think of other people as "the enemy".  Competition can  bring out the worst in people, as it can erode a person's ethics and morals, as they may do whatever they think is necessary to win.  When people are working together in cooperation, they are much more likely to be honest and helpful, and be moral and ethical.

Therefore, cooperation is preferable to competition, as the more effective way for people to achieve lasting and meaningful success and achievement.  Competition can bring out the worst in people, while cooperation inevitably brings out the best in people.  The next time you find yourself having to decide between competition and cooperation, choose cooperation.  It is the better choice.

