"It is better to give than to receive." This is an oft-repeated cliche, but it is a cliche because it is true -- though this is not always apparent in real time. When it comes down to it, all of us want to be happy. But what is the best way to achieve happiness? Is it when we receive a gift ourselves, or is it when we give others a gift? Somewhat surprisingly -- but completely consistent with the cliche -- focusing on others' happiness is the best way to bring happiness to ourselves.

When it comes to setting and achieving personal goals, there is a limit to what can make us happy. If we meet a goal we have set for ourselves, does that automatically make us happy? It might on a temporary basis. But most people will then not lose their drive to be happy because they have achieved a goal. Instead, they will become restless, and thus unhappy again, and will have to find a new purpose and a new goal to reach in order to again become happy. Inevitably, the cycle will repeat, and so people will never really be happy.

On the other hand, giving oneself and one's efforts to making others happy can pay almost unlimited dividends. Think of it this way: A rising tide lifts all boats. Another cliche, perhaps, but one that shows how a general feeling of happiness affects everyone positively.

For example, consider making someone happy an investment. If, say, something costs 5 happiness units, it might make you happy to buy something with those 5 units. But if you were to invest them in someone else, the feeling of happiness would grow far beyond those initial 5 units. It's not the destination (purchase) that's important here, it's the journey (investment). Ten happiness units are better than 5, even if they are spread among multiple people. 

Serving others is a great way to make yourself happy. By giving of oneself through volunteering or working in a profession that seeks to help others, our job becomes making others happy. This is not a zero-sum game; just because others derive happiness from our efforts, it does not mean our happiness is diminished by that amount. Instead, happiness grows far beyond what we could experience by simply focusing on a selfish goal and not taking others into account.

Some people may argue that we cannot focus on others' happiness if we are not first happy ourselves. This almost becomes a chicken-or-egg argument with no answer, but also no way to test the argument. If you can't make others happy without being happy yourself, then you have to work on your own happiness first. However, as we have shown, seeking one's happiness independently is ultimately fruitless because it does not last. Therefore, we must devote our love and attention to others to make them happy first, which (ironically, somewhat selfishly) boosts our own happiness.

In the end, how people define happiness is an individual decision. However, the more happiness we put out into the world by working to make those around us -- and even those we do not know -- happier, the more happiness comes back around to enlighten and uplift us.
