Materialism has driven modern society and individuals' quest for status for the longest time. People, unfortunately, are not judged solely on their personal character or ethics, but instead are judged in terms of status based on the size of their house, the model of their car, and the amount of material possessions they acquire as a result of financial gains. While many people desire to lead productive and meaningful lives, the reality is that the perception of what a productive and meaningful life really is has been skewed by the demand of society to measure a person's success by the amount and value of their materialistic possessions.

While society relies on contributing members and individuals who seek the greater good, it is evident in our daily interactions and media consumption that materialism is the basis for judging a person's success in life. It is rare that a person's success in life is judged on their personal qualities and commitment to society, family and friends, while instead there is a focus on what a person possesses and the quality of those possessions that drives societal perception of that individual's success. Who a person is often comes down to what a person possesses, meaning a person's possessions become identifiers of the successful life as seen by those around them. While many people strive to be a good person, living a moral and ethical life with attention to supporting those around them, everything in our society forces people to strive for more money, more possessions, bigger houses, fancier cars, expensive clothes, etc. We have become consumed by the continual pursuit of more.

The argument can be made that individuals have the choice of whether or not they allow their lives to be focused on the pursuit of material possessions; however, our society has shifted dramatically to glorifying expensive items and measuring success through what a person is able to afford. People then lose sight of the important things in life, things like spending time with their families or supporting their community. Volunteerism has even gone down a dark road of materialistic drive, and while people who volunteer are not always given materialistic perks for volunteering, our society has come to a point where everyone needs to let everyone else know what they are doing to help or how much money they are donating to charity. There no longer exists a quiet desire to help others. Instead, materialism has driven even something as fundamentally good-intentioned as volunteering or donating to charity to a level of competition where those who give the most time and money flaunt that "charity" so others are able to admire their position in society and their financial well-being. 

Though materialism takes center stage in our society and the perception of success, it is also a motivator that encourages people to better themselves and strive for success in their careers and family lives. There is a balance that must be struck between pursuing materialistic status and gaining happiness with what a person has. It can be argued that the COVID pandemic helped to refocus priorities. Whereas prior to the pandemic, people and society were materialistically driven, the pandemic offered an opportunity to reconnect with what is important. There wasn't the opportunity to spend money on extravagent trips or fancy parties in order to impress friends and acquantances. Instead, people had the time to focus on themselves and on the well-being of their family. For this short time, society came together as people helping people, without a "what's in it for me" mentality. Sadly, as a new sense of normal emerges, people are quickly sliding back to the materialistic focus and are forgetting the little things that really matter.

Status can be a dangerous thing, and even moreso, the outright pursuit of elevated status in society with a focus on being better and doing better than those around you. Social media is a cancer that allows people to create and put on display extravagent lifestyles that make others envious. Sure, there is some merit to posting about what is going on in your life to keep friends and family up to date, but at the core of the majority of social media postings is a person's opportunity to flaunt what they have and to receive validation for the importance of their materiliastic pursuit and mindset.

The perception of success in modern society is blinded by materialism. Money and possessions have become indicative of a person's success and happiness, though this type of happiness is only skin deep. As long as mainstream media, social media, public figures and other regarded sources continue to promote the skewed perception of success as being completely centered on material possession and financial elevation in social status, materialism will continue to breed contempt among people, while encouraging an ongoing pursuit of the next best thing. Until people realize that happiness is from within and that possessions do not bring the contentment that so many are seeking, society will continue to be a prisoner of the materialistic mindset, putting those on a pedestal who have the biggest house, fanciest car, fattest bank account, and most amount of "stuff" that society deems to be most important.
