Materialism gets a bad reputation in our society today. People have a world view shaped by the recent developments with climate change and how that impacts our consumption needs going forward. I think beginning in the 1980s rampant consumerism really started to pick up with the targeting of ads towards children and how that has made people more prone to materialism growing up. I think that materialism isn't nessecarily a bad thing today. 

Allow me to explain. While materialism is seen as a bad thing people forget that not one hundred years ago with the great depression, our country and needs were not being met to the point that people were dying from lack of food. In todays society one would think that it would be a great benefit to have a lot of material possessions in comparison to the past. In our modern society we should actually praise materialism. We are more than capable of having moderation but it is good to own items for enjoyment that are durable and can be passed down to the next generations

In the past this was not a thing to consider, we made ends meet but really we couldn't own much more than what was needed to survive. Owning a lot of material possessions should be seen as a modern triumph with capatalistic markets and free trade. The ability to own items across the world with ease is a marvel of the human condition. Think that you can own a painting from someone you have no ties to across the world and have it displayed in your home, just 50 years ago this would have been seen as hard to achieve. 

Material possessions are a sign that life is comfortable and you can continue on without much issues. These works of art, high end clothing, and other possessions show signs of human success and should be celebrated. There is a difference between being materialistic and being a hoarder, in moderation, possessions can be seen as a huge benefit to a person. Being able to own a one of a kind unique piece of something is really enjoyable and that makes people happy. Having items people share a similar interest in can bring people together. 

There are more benefits to being a materistic person than there are negatives. I believe that owning quality goods that say something about you can really liven up a room and keep people interested to know you. With a minimalistic lifestyle which is the alternative, your room or space would be vapid and empty, with a cold white and empty feeling. The ability to bring a room to life with a materialistic fashion sense, with a huge amount of lush plants, paintings, guitars, board games, furnature, it brings a lot of soul to an otherwise boring life. People want to know more about a material person compared to a minimalist.

The environmental aspects of materialism are overblown. Yes there are more goods being created than ever, however these also present new oppertunities for people to create products that produce less waste. Through trial and error people have created mass produced goods that cut down on the amount of raw materials needed to create a similar product from about 30 years ago. Even simple stuff like a ball, or a toy can have a similar high quality but being made smaller or with less material. People benefit when new solutions to these problems are found.

New solutions to problems have been solved by creating material items so it is worth keeping a materialistic lifestyle around. People can own things that do not have much use, but they can find interesting to their needs or lifestyle. Without material possessions life would be so much more boring than it is today. Think of a garden, but in that garden there wasn't a stone bench, or an angel statue, or a fountain, all of these things have no purpose other than aesthetics but they bring life to an otherwise dull space. 

In conclusion, the societal perceptions of a materialistic lifestyle are overblown and people miss the point that we can achieve a lifestyle that is both interesting and unique by owning items. It is unbelievable that just 100 years ago these same perceptions would have been seen as negative. It is a marvel of the human condition we can own items from creators all over the world and it should be praised. Our society benefits from having unique items and new creations to enjoy so that we advance as a society going forward. 
