All too often in this day and age do we put the appearance and show of an entity over what the reality of it all truly is. This can be seen in just about every aspect of every day life, from low quality products that get sold by 'designer' brands as well as our celebrities and politicians that all get idolized. All due to the appearance they give off, rarely ever backing up any claims they make.
I believe these images and impressions do have far too much of an impact and effect on people in this day and age. No one cares about focusing on what is actually being provided in a service or what a politician is actually doing any more. They only care about the perception of these things and how it effects their image and how it makes others perceive them for owning those certain products or supporting those certain candidates. 
The most obvious cases of these things in products would be just any designer brand. Kanye West is a famous example with his clothing brand that is notoriously low quality and yet people still pay an arm and a leg just to show off his brand and how they could afford it. In politics its just the same. You have candidates like Donald Trump and Joe Biden, and just about every other politician out there that make all kinds of promises during their campaigns, only to not delivery on even half of them once they actually get elected into office. 
Some might say that its just the culture of the US today and its fine, but if you took a second to look into, for example, a politician's record of bills they have passed, positions they have supported, and all of those publicly available and extremely important things, you can more often than not see that what they are promising during their campaigns do not actually align with their historically proven positions and voting such people into power is only harmful for the integrity of the political system and future of the general public.
"Woke" culture is extremely prevelent in the world today, but we need to truly wake up as a people and begin to see things for what they really are. The longer we allow things like these to go on, the more it will become accepted and the more those lines and boundaries will be pushed and pushed even further. Truth and honesty are what we need now more than ever.  
