Each day, we strive into the real world on two feet and return home ballooning with a wealth of information our small minds have little time to truly process. Images and impressions have a substantial effect on the ourselves and the people around us, though this effect is far from excessive. The way we process the world around us is a part of our survival as a species, and though it might seem unwise, it is truly part of the human experience to absorb and be influenced by such a trove of information. We see a sign stating that a bagel is half off, we're more likely to buy that bagel on our morning commute than one that might otherwise me twice the price. We avoid a road because we know it will be busy, we chuckle at billboards, we skip the advertisements before videos.  All of these things are mild inconveniences or even fond memories, of which we take far too little into account what these experiences mean as people. 

We see celebrities, politicians, and nowadays the super wealthy absorb a supermassive spotlight in the forefront of the public opinion, but this has less to do with ourselves as individuals and far more to do with the way we treat celebrities as a socety. Should we perceive less because the corporations demand we perceive more? No, instead, we should learn to value the world around us uninhibited by the chains of this late stage capitalism which bogs down our tired world. We should instead employ a standard for what we are willing to enjoy: the natural world, messages of education and civility, and the foundations that have emboldened and progressed our cultures and societies. There was once a time when celebrities were scientists and authors, scholars and philosophers and not simply a society of individuals posting their pets and smoothies to instagram. Instead, it is important that we take the time to enjoy a refinement of entertainment, though at the end of the day, even a sort of dumb level of joy can be taken from what we absorb. 

Impressions formulate the survival of our species at the most basic level: eat this, do that, go there, avoid that. Impressions are part of what makes us develop, and instead of thinking of impressionistic tendencies as a bane to the existence of the individual, we would be far better suited instead to approach the issue insofar as addressing what content we as a society accept. What we see is more important than what really is because it that is what is real in the moment, so instead of accepting what is less than tangible, we must bargain and barter for the physical. Even so, it is not unethical to enjoy what isn't real, to chuckle at billboards.  

Instead, there is a fine line that deviates the issue, one between entertainment and pragmatisism. What we do not take into account when addressing these issues is a certain lack of realism that we must approach. People enjoy content, and content provides a spice of life in which there is no other to compare. Even when we are reading books or watching road signs, these details are definitive of what accounts for so much joy. How we define this line is arbitrary. Once a thing becomes unenjoyable, we simply move on. When a thing sparks the interest of the masses, it becomes a fad, a buzzword, a trend. Whether it lives on means nothing to anyone when they're enjoying that non-tangible mirage which we have perceived. We see this in meme culture, in movies, even in fast fashion. Our penchant for buying into scams is another example of this. The lynchpin of the issue is not that we should perceive less, but that we should be educated in such a way that we can perceive more with a greater sense of depth and nuance. 

There is little we can do to change the attitudes in which society embarks. Furthermore, there are few ways to limit the ways that public figures can make impressions without generating a divisive discussion on the topic of free speech. There is no right or wrong answer, simply the brutal reality that if we cannot stop it, then perhaps we can make positive change in the impressions we do allow. We are swayed to buy beautiful things because pretty colors told us to, we once bit into strange fruits on foreign trees because vibrant colors enticed the senses. We are not an ignorant society, despite what it may seem. We will not  bite the poison apple and swallow the bitter fruit so long as solidarity exists, and the collectivist values that define true progress are a natural progression to the statements made in this essay. Values must be installed that set a standard and a line between fact and fiction. 

Impressions are valuable at the literal and figurative level. Impressionistic paintings are a literal reminder (albeit, a visual metaphor) of the brief images which alter the way we view a thing. The way we view a celebrity on the television or a politician or even a tyrant is little different. Vague splotches of color on a blurred canvas on which we so poorly choose to base our opinions. However, there is beauty in that  vagueness and potential even in that animosity. Images of peace, eye catching educational leaflets and programs, even ads warning us of substance abuse. These are all examples of impressions being used for good. There are far too many ads used to control the public and to entice them for the unacceptable and unhealthy. However, these habituations are not inherently in contradiction to our needs in a globalized society. Instead, there is a certain degree of acceptability and moderation which much be used to define our perceptions. Whether that is done at the individual level, or jointly as a sort of confederation, does not matter.  

Images can be used for good, and some images are necessary for making great change. Other uses of imagery are what keep our world economy on its feet, and without it we would see dire consequences that would alter life as we know it currently. Hedonism begets hedonism, but restraint generates further restraint. Impressions on principle is far better than the demonizing of personalities and advertsements that populate the media today. Should we accept better, and hold those public figures to a higher standard? Yes; but in doing so, we must also hold ourselves to a higher standard. Instead of arguing for an end to this fastfood society culture, it is instead better to argue that we should improve the foundations of society down to the level of education we provide to our youth. 

The betterment of society is paramount. My final expectation on this topic is simply that we can trust that people have grown far enough to know what is best for them. Criticizing our enjoyment of consumerist culture is valid, but so too is  finding a way to enrich that society and use the tendencies of the human psyche to create a far more validating human experience. These beliefs are better said when understanding humans as social creatures, ones that interact in communities and within a global stage, who can be expected to all have a similar goal of survival and improvement. Stop messages of war, stop the profit that it brings, and you have peace. Demonetize misinformation and you will have accuracy and credibility. 


