I am a materialistic person! Yes, you read it right. Should I be criticized if I work my self 48 hours a week to be able to buy the "materials" I love? Well, if your answer is YES, congratulations for living this era in a challeging way possible. 

When I was a child, I used to have car toys, I usually imagined my self driving a real one. It all started as a wish and in time, it became a dream, an ambition and a motivation. The day I started to dream of having my own car is the day I found a motivation to do well in school, it was hard since I am just an average student, the car did kept me going.

I am now a 33 -year ols store manager driving my very own car. imagine if I were not being a materialistic, I don't think I would be in my place now if it didn't happen. So yeah, after the car, I wanted a new phone, the latest one, and again I worked my self hard to get the latest brand, guess what? I have now that phone. Buying things from my hard earned money is something so rewarding for me, I get satisfaction from it. But I will have to emphasize or elaborate that despite of me being a materialistic, I am still able to fulfill my responsibilities to my family, I am still able to provide for them, I am still able to make the people around me happy and appreciate life. 

Materialism is not something negative nor positive, at the end of the day, it is how you react to it and how you manage yourself. Life is too short to be spent on ''What ifs" and "I should haves'. Isn't it great to have work hard and enjoy the things you bought? How fulfilling it is to be able to buy not just your needs but your wants? Materialism is only wrong if you are jobless. Materialism should only be criticized if it makes you an irresponsible  person. Spending your hard earned money to something you desire is totally not something to be criticized. 

I am not really good in writing but I sure did try my best to tell my side of the coin. I believe that every thing is okay and well as long as it is in the right side of the coin. I hope every one will just try to live life and make the most out of it. Every one has the right to pamper oneself. 
