Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people? The answer is, simply, yes. Image is everything. Products are consumed because people are attracted to them. Why are people attracted to them? Because of how they make them feel. It might because the packaging is beautiful. It might be because it tastes delicious, makes you feel thinner, smarter, cooler, more beautiful. It may make you feel like you're part of a group, or it may make you feel like an individual who stands out from the group on your own.

Let's take music for example. The biggest band of all time, The Beatles. Image was everything. Their look, the girls who swooned over them in the audience (this was later revealed to be an advertising technique--these girls were, in fact, paid to act like they were swooning over the band members to make it look like they had a superhuman appeal to women...and it WORKED.) Why do I mention The Beatles, of all bands,you say? Because when you sit down and listen, REALLY listen, to their music, you'll find nothing more than simple children's songs with vocals that are the equivalent of someone singing in the shower. In other words, although the music sounds catchy and happy, it's mundane, brainless, and displays the bare minimum of talent. Yet 62 years after the band first formed, it's still the highest selling music of all time. Why?

Because of marketing. There was nothing like The Beatles at the time, and promoters capitalized on that. It has become the stuff of music lore. Think how you, dear reader, see The Beatles and tell me their fame isn't something you wholeheartedly believe to have been achieved because of their sheer talent, when in fact, it was all appearances and marketing techniques, along with catchy songs that were new to the rather staid audiences of the day. 

If you want a modern day example of that, think Britney Spears. Beautiful, sexy even, amazing dancer, and a sweetheart of a person that you can't help but fall in love with. Girl can't sing to save her life. She's autotuned to death. And yet we love all the songs, copy all the dance moves, etc, etc, and so forth. All packaging, marketing, image and impression.

Of course, there are people who truly believe The Beatles had something to say. Sure, they were innovative for their time. Britney Spears has spent her whole life and sacrificed her mental health for her career. She DESERVES her success. However, the shock value of the new style The Beatles performed, along with the dazzling image of Britney's beauty and her sparkling, revealing costumes and beautiful face and physique are what really sold them to the masses. IMAGE and IMPRESSIONS, not MUSICAL TALENT.


