     On an individual level, we each have activities, belongings, and events which bring us personal happiness. Typically, no one knows you better than yourself or has your own best interest at heart more than yourself. However, through a combination of natural instinct and our current societal structure, we are social creatures and are stronger together. Many actions we take in our daily lives have repurcussions on the lives of others, whether we recognize it in the moment or not. The effects of those actions are more likely to hold importance. positive or negative, in how we view ourselves than more individual-focused aspects, such as personal possessions. It is a common media trope that when someone is reflecting on their lives, they most frequently view times they spent with others and impacts they had on others over the course of their lives as opposed to one's one individual accomplishments, status, or possessions.
    A common example of personal happiness experienced when focusing on the happiness of others is parenting. Based on personal conversations and general impressions from media and society, it is my view that the vast majority of parents find significant happiness for themselves when their children or grandchildren are happy. It is a form of give and take, where the parents provide a structure for the children in which to grow and find happiness, and in turn the parents themselves find their own happiness.
    Of course, focusing on the happiness of others to an extreme can be detrimental. If an individual focuses solely on the wants and needs of others and those others do not reciprocate the efforts, then that person may end up feeling used and unappreciated. It takes both sides in such a relationship placing importance on the happiness of those around them in order for a symbiotic relationship to develop. A giving person must still remain conscious of their own needs in order to be able to successfully help others. Although an overused metaphor, it is important to put on one's own oxygen mask before assisting others. After that initial personal oxygen mask, though, the value of helping others is likely to have a higher return on happiness than focusing only on oneself.
