Everywhere in life we are bombarded with imagery trying to sell us something.  What to eat, what to wear, where to go, what car to drive, what toys to play with.  From young to old there are whole teams whose job it is to figure out what makes you tick and how to sway you on their product.  This is disseminated through TV and print media, but has now evolved to the internet and beyond just material products.  Now you are also being sold on different fears, and beliefs, lifestyles, politicians, self worth, identity. With a world where the screen never leaves your sight what impact does this have on people and is it too much? 

 Your very ideas and thoughts have now been replaced by a system that has grown far too sophisticated in figuring out how you think and what moves you.  It is now able to give you what you want and naturally respond to.  The natural implementation of this is advertising which the whole profit structure of the internet is based on.  But this has evolved past commercialism and into politics.  Polititians can run their traditional ads and have their effectiveness but now they can also sway you indirectly.  If you want favorable views on certain policies pay writers out their to create content on well know blogs and online news sources to write positively on those policies, and big tech companies and computer algorithms can do the rest to make sure that message gets to the right people and opposing views do not.  If the NBA is concerned about losing millions of dollars from the Chinese market due to criticism of their governments human right abuses then start a domestic campaign for acceptance and tolerance of a minority group inside the United States.  The image now becomes about the virtue of the NBA and not its hypocracy.  

The well known phrase of "don't judge a book by it's cover" speaks wisdom to look beyond the superficial and see the real value and worth of a person by looking at their actions and character.  It also shows that at our core we may be prone to do just that and judge based on shallow information.  But with the growth of traditional media and increasing influence of the internet in every facet of our lives with growing accuracy and sophistication, how do we stand a chance at doing anything other than forming shallow conclusions and assessments of the world around us?
