Why do some people appear happy, while others do not?  And just what is the root cause of happiness?  There is one theory that happiness comes when people concentrate on helping others, and find happiness for themselves as a result.  But is this really true?  
It is certainly true in literature.  Dickens' Scrooge, for instance, was never happy until he found himself helping others.  But is this really true?

It is a given in praxeological science that man is constantly striving to improve himself in some way.  You may be watching your favorite TV show, and at the same time surf other channels just to make sure there isn't something better that you're missing.  When you decline to work overtime, you are doing so because you value your leisure time more than the overtime pay.  And when you drop a dollar into the Salvation Army kettle, you are not doing so to help others, but because it makes you feel good that you're helping others. 

So, just what makes us happiest?  Is it concentrating on what we want?  Or is it helping others achieve what they want?

I submit the answer is - it depends.  Perhaps  it would be better to decide just what happiness is, and for how long that happiness lasts.  An alcoholic is happy when he gets his first drink of the day, but that happiness is short lived.  A lottery winner is thrilled to suddenly be wealthy, and that will last at least until the novelty wears off.  A surgeon is certainly happy to save a patient, and that happiness will last until the next patient comes along.  A baseball batter who hits a home run does so to help himself and his team, making his fans happy is not his main priority.  What do all of these people have in common?  They are all happy, at least temporarily.

Why are some people generally happy while others are not?  I submit the happy person is happy not necessarily from improving himself, or from helping others, but simply from being able to accept who they are, and why they do the things they do.  

 
