 Images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people. We as people are drawn to images and let them effect us because, we like the way it looks or sounds, are drawn only to colorful memorable images, and things that look and sound good.  Impressions effect us as ell because more times than often the peron is not what they are preciped as and people always try to show their good side verus their bad side. In this essay I will explan to you how images and impressions greatly impacts our view on things on people. 

The way something looks or how it attracts the naked eye definitely affects on how we view that item. For example if there is a quality product in a bland packaging we won't be drawn to that item and will often over look it, verus a colorful and eye catching product that has a lesser value. The more memorable the product is the more we are drawn to that item than to an item that is very easy to forget. It is easy to buy a toy that you see often on tv on a commerical verus a toy that you may have saw one or two times. 

Impressions greatly effect the view we have on people because we often go buy how much we know of that person and what that person is known for. A person can leave a good impression on you within first meeting them and that will leave the lasting impact on how they are viewed. For example: you can be under the imperession that a person is a huge charity donation giver buy the constant posts on social media about charities and speeches they give on charities, but in fact they can never have even donated to a charity but likes to spread awarness. Social media plays a huge part on impressions that people can have and they allow you to alter any impression that you want to give off. 

In conclusion Impressions and Images greatly affect us as to how we view people and things. They alter our views to be attracted to the most memorable and fashionable thing and impressions effect  often misleads us in our point of view. As humans we let the idea and how goood something looks effect on how well that item is percieved and is often percieved poistively. We also let first and lasting impressions decide how we view a person or subject before actually doing the research and finding the actual truth.
