One can say that happiness is found in others, but if you yourself are not happy, how can you make others happy?
In this essay, I will attempt to explain my reasoning behind if you yourself are not happy wiht yourself, no one around you can be happy.
Now, one can argue that you can find happiness in others, but I firmly believe that true happiness comes from the inside. If you can be happy on the inside, you can bring this happiness out and get joy from others, situations, etc. But, without this happiness inside your self from the start, true happiness is not obtainable. 
It may seem easy, you may have been doing it your entire life. If you take from people, you get the happiness they give to you. It's easy right? If you focus on others, you don't need to focus on yourself or your own goals. It is not though. That seems easy but it's happiness from the surface. You need inner happiness to truly be happy.
How do you become happy with yourself? You can seek joy in things you do for yourself. Not for others. But for you. Stay at home by yourself, find joy in your personal goals. Work out. Eat healthy. Find a hobby you enjoy. If you are tied to one person or place or thing, when/if that goes away, you are in trouble. Being able to find inner happiness means helping others and bringing that energy out. 
The problem with relying on others for happiness is that you will see that you're not truly happy. Are you only happy if someone is around? If you are only doing one thing? What happens when those things go away? If people go away? You're relying on something that is not a constant and that is where true trouble lies. The ability to be happy alone is the ability to be happy with others and for others. That is true happiness.
If you take and take from people, eventually you're going to burn out, or they will burn out from doing the same to you. You're going to give too much of yourself trying to make others happy or vice versa.
Now, how much better do you feel now that you did those goals you said you would and you can now release that joy into the world. You can watch others be happy and hope that they are finding the happiness that you have found for yourself.
So, I believe that the true key to being happy is a mixture between your personal goals and the happiness of others. But, not one or the other. One cannot exist without the other.
True happiness lies in yourself, and you're lucky, you find happiness in others along the way and put some of that happiness out into the world.
