While there are arguments in favor of cooperation and competition, when looking at real world applications, we can see that cooperation fosters greater success. When individuals work together, they are more creative, tend to produce a greater quanity of ideas, and tend to be more internally motivated to work hard. This internal motivation in particular is more sustainable, and I would argue that cooperation is more successful than competition at promoting success. 

When making this argument, it is first critical to define what success means. While it could be merely avoiding failure or achieving important victories, I would like to define success as being more productive with higher quality outcomes. This definition can apply to a variety of situations, with productivity being measures in number of outcomes, time, etc, and number of outcomes either in quantity, quality, emotional validity, etc, depending on exactly what issue we are measuring the success of. When defining success in this way, we are looking at a more dimension approach to what success is that stretches beyond basic, baseline measures. This would create a more realistic, important definition of success that we can apply to the question of whether cooperation or competition is better at producing success.  When applying this definition, we can see how cooperation can be more effective than competition. 

Next, I believe that cooperation allows for the production of more, better ideas than competition does. Cooperation has many benefits, and when used correctly, there can be corresponding increases in success. When people cooperate with one another, their strengths and weaknesses can find appropriate counterparts, and they can be more effective with the same independent, individual resources. An individual who is weak in one area can partner with someone who is strong in another, and those strengths and weaknesses can complement each other to the point of improving the quality and quantity of successes. In addition, there can be greater internal motivation generation by cooperation than there could be in competition. Individuals would not be inherently turned off by high levels of competition, or feelings of failure if they are not doing as well as they would like. When they are not judging themselves against their peers, individuals can instead focus on contributing to the team and being seen as a valuable resource. This would produce a sense of internal motivation that could assist individuals in increasing their productivity and success. In addition, there could be external motivation if there was pressure from one's peers to contribute to the team. This form of motivation would be sustainable, and I believe it would be effective in encouraging individuals to strive for success without becoming unmotivated or feeling particularly challenged.

While some may say competition is more effective than cooperation because cooperation creates healthy levels of adrenaline between participants, and thus encourages individuals to work harder in the aim of winning, I would argue that that is not the case. While it may be true that we naturally want to be the best, and competition allows us a straight-forward way of measuring our own outcomes against the outcomes of our peers, I think that the same natural wanting can be found when cooperation is used. While competition naturally creates this drive, it also has many downfalls, such as failing to produce high quality ideas, and resulting in negative impacts to the mental health of those participating in competitive environments. Competition has a lot of downfalls, both to the mental and sometimes the physical health of those participating. Plus, the benefit of adrenaline found from competition can still be seen in cooperation. 

In conclusion, I believe cooperation is a more effective tool to produce success than competition. While both have benefits, the benefits specific to competition can be replicated by cooperation, and thus their benefit is mitigated. Cooperation can allow individuals to play off one another's strengths and weaknesses, and it is more effective at producing success in the way I have defined it in this essay. As such, cooperation is a more effective tool for producing success, and I would argue people should emphasize the power of cooperation and its ability to increase the quality and quantity of positive outcomes when it comes to success and accomplishments. 
