What is success? It depends on who you are and what you want out of life in order to answer that. If you go to Barnes and Noble and walk down the personal development section of books, you will find several titles of books on sucess. Some people put success on dollar amounts in their bank, or maybe just being happy, or landing a great career. I've seen people post on social media they felt success just finally cleaning out their garage that looked like an old antique mall of cluttered madness. In my personal experiences throughout college and now working in the professional world, I have found more people tend to achieve success by using cooperation. Success can be achieved through competition, and some people do thrive on it; however when more people are working together to obtain that success, it leads naturally to higher numbers of people achieving success. Often times, especially in the workplace, we tend to be put into situations where we are placed against one another for either promotions, incentives, bonuses, and even just being hired for a position we have applied for. I've worked many different fields as an adult, and I have seen competition yield results for sales positions, but at what cost? I will be discussing cooperation success in the sales industry, and my personal experiences with such, and giving examples of why I feel cooperation is a better approach than competition when it comes to obtaining success. 

I have worked in sales for over 10 years in various fields. These have ranged to direct sales, yes those annoying people who tend to message you a thousand times on Facebook trying to get you out to Starbucks for coffee and a chat, to insurance sales. I've sold subscriptions services and worked in fields related to retain members to services or products. I have found over the years that success in sales typically results in being number one and being able to meet those quotas that are put on you each month. I have worked in departments where we were put into direct compeition with one another, and in situations where we worked together to achieve one goal. Just like with anything, the more people who win, the more people who are successful. If there is 10 balls in the pit, and all 10 balls get an added ball we now have 20 balls in the pit. If there are 10 balls in the pit, and only 3 balls get an added ball for being the best, we now only have 13 balls in the pit. 

In sales, typically, individuals are given a quota they need to achieve in order to maintain employment and possibly even receive any sort of commission payment for their pay period. I have worked both sales enviornments were we cooperatively worked together to meet a quota, and then also worked competivtely to achieve the sales goal. In a cooperative setting, the overall mental health for the staff, and the morale tends to be a lot higher. People tend to be less stressed, and enjoy coming to work. I've personally found the laid back environment tends to actually create more sales because people aren't being distracted by a number they need to reach. They know they don't need to get that number alone, and there are other people there to help them achieve it. I've seen in coorperative settings, sales goals are actually surpasses by large amounts because everyone is so much closer with their co-workers there isn't that shadow of jealousy that so-and-so is top sales agent again this month. That closeness tends to create people to want to push to sell more so they don't cause someone else to have to pick up their slack because they don't want to cause any harm to the environment that has been created. 

On-the-other-hand, I have witness terrible work environments from competitive settings because there usually is an incentive for the top seller to get some extra perks. This tends to create a lot of jealousy amongst the co-workers, or disappointment, and a load of unneeded stress to fill the office space. Sales goals may be met, and sales goals may be surpassed; however, the cost of this isn't usually great for the sales agent. I have witnessed people personally end up with health conditions due to stress they have endured at work because the quotas keep going up, and they just can't keep up. They also have a lot of stress from just the overall environment they are exposed to at the office. There are absolutely ways for the employer to help lighten the environment, and most do try to do so. Sometimes, it isn't enough though. I have missed a few days of work in the past due to having work related stress cause severe chest pains. I have also seen people thrive on the competing with others because they need to be the top spot to feel successful. There is nothing wrong with either method, whatever works for you is okay. I feel the added pressure from competing against other people can end up harming the sucess results, and thus leading to less success. If we work together in harmony, there are more creative minds creating more things. Growing and learning new things along the way as well, which is a great thing to look forward to. 

In conclusion, people define success in their own ways, and what may be a success story to me could not even come close to a success story to someone else. I personally feel a cooperative approach tends to land more success and at a higher rate, especially in a professional environment. When everyone is winning, it just creates a better all around environment, which helps breed even more success. In regards to sales positions, it is critical to keep a positive work environment because all it takes is a little bit of shadow to bring an entire department down because in order to be great at sales, agents must be able to focus on what they're saying and doing at all to maintain confidence while making that sales pitch. Competition may work for some people, but cooperation tends to breed more people achieving sucess within their lives. If more people are achieving success simply because they are working together, it is quite obvious using that method is the best choice to make with things. I used a sales position for this example, but the concepts here can be applied to any aspect of our lives. It doesn't matter what someone views as success, coorperating means two or more people are achieving. Two heads are better than one. Even if we looked at two people working together to bake a cake that is creative minds putting a lot of ideas out there instead of just one person trying to be better than the person next to them. The added stressors involved to cause success to be harder to reach, or even not be reached at all because the person didn't get the results they were looking for. 
