We've all been there before, the new iPhone something is announced and it has the latest and greatest, but we just got the iPhone was the new version a year ago, two months ago, and we feel envy. Are we going to be missing out because we can't upgrade for another two years? Are we going to fall behind? Will my friend's judge me becuase I have the old version? Modern society has become materialistic. We place more time, energy and money on having the latest and greatest, then we do on taking care of eachother.

One of the reasons we have become so materialistic is the invention of social media. First you have your "real life friends". They are posting about their new cars, new houses, new phones, etc. If that isn't a slap in the face, then you have your celebrities and your "influencers" who are posting every day about the free things they got in the mail, that you could never actually afford. Even if it's something that normally you wouldn't want, because Kim Kardashian, Beyonce and the Rock are posting about it, you feel left out and you want it. Before social media it wasn't in your face every day, multiple times a day things you didn't have, or would never have. Now everytime you open a social media app it's right there.

The second reason we have become so materialistic is the invention of online shopping. If I want something it is at my finger tips. I just have to log on to whatever website, find it, buy it and then it will be at my house in a couple of days. If the pandemic has taught us anything it's that, we don't ever have to leave our houses, and that boredom creates itchy fingers and we purchase a lot of crap to keep us busy. With stores like Amazon that can have somethings to you the same day, or at least within two days, unless it's a necessisity why even enter a store.

The third reason we are so materialistic, goes with the previous two reasons, the invention of debit cards and the ease of obtaining a credit card. Back in the day if you didn't have the cash in hand you couldn't buy it. Now, I don't need the cash with my debit card or credit card I can purchase what I want when I want. And while you can track purchases, it's not as easy as having the physical cash in you hand. It also gives you a sense of entitlement. 

Some may argue it's not that we have become more materialistic, it's that we are making more money and are able to afford more things. I would argue that, compared to the 60's and 70's we are making less. To have a family, both parents have to work. Heck, I am 38 years old, with a Masters, no children and making about $60,000 a year and I can barely afford to live on my own. This is leading to people working 40 plus hours a week and multiple jobs just to keep a roof over their heads. Part of that could also be attributed to how materialistc we have become. There are so many things we have decided are now "necessities": Internet, Cable TV, Streaming Services, and Amazon just to name a few. And I'd argue that yes, in 2022 Internet is a necessity.

Prior to the 2000's more emphasis was placed on experiences. Being with family, friends, outside, going places. But now we don't have to leave, becuase we can experience it on the internet. The only way I knew what anyone else had was if they showed me at school or if I went over to their house. For me, the only compitition was on the softball field not with someone on Instagram who lives in England that I've never met, who has this cool new tool to curl your hair in seconds.

Our socieity has started equating success with how much you own. The amount of money you have is still a huge factor in if your are successful or not. You could have everything in the world, all of the latest and greatest but if you are broke you are still not considered successful.

Our society deserves all the criticism we get for being materialistic, but we didn't get here on our own. Social Media, online shopping and easy access to debit ro credit cards have influnced our materialism and our need to buy more things. Our need to "keep up with the Jones'", and the whole "Fear of Missing Out" (FOMO) tag line, have caused us to forget what FOMO actually is. It's not "fear of missing out" on the latests and greatest technology, toys, games, cars, clothes. It's "Fear of Missing Out" on experiences. It's missing a baseball game, or a concert, or  going to a movie with friends. It's sitting on your patio with a couple of drinks and some friends and laughing about random stuff. It's not about what you have and what you could have. It's about what you do with your time and the experiences you have.
