People are more happy if they first rely on meeting their own personal needs; and then focus their attention on the happiness of others. A person cannot focus their attention on the happiness of others if they are not first getting their basic human needs. Likewise, someone who has met all of their goals in the world may still not be happy if their work does not help others. This is why we follow the hierarchy of needs; and place ourselves first and others second.

The first step of happiness is meeting your own needs, or goals. First, you must have a shelter, stable relationships in your life, food, water, and some kind of income. These things are vital to live in our society; and other material items could likely be added to the list (phone for example). Without the basic necessaties not only can people not chase their goals; but they also cannot focus on the happiness of others. Once someone has reached this level; in which day-to-day living is not a task, then their attention should be turned elsewhere.          

Others may argue that even the homeless that spend their time making sure others are happy can still be happy. Because they are focusing on the well-being of others they do not need to focus on the despair of themselves. But, in the aggregate and in the long run this is simply false. Sure, it may make someone with nothing happy to help a buddy or family member out for a short amount of time. But, surely, that person's own responsibilities will at some point become too much to bear. They will not be able to help others. And will need to help themselves. This is why they should always start with themselves.  

Then, once a person is capable of meeting their own needs they can then focus their attention on the happiness of others. The only way to truly develop; to truly find a purpose is to live for the fights of others. It is so easy to view yourself as fallable, as unworthy; but when you inject your energy in someone else's well-being you have people in your corner even when you are not. Relationships last far past any goals a person may have. 

Furthermore, when a person focuses on the goals of others they lift up the entire population. This optimization leads to a better life for all. In essence, it is a free-rider problem. If we don't lift others up then we have people relying on us anyway. People's problems do not go away because we do not see them. 

Because it is imperative for people to have the basic necessaties to meet any goals; to optimize happiness people should first focus on themselves and then the happiness of others. In the long term this will allow people to help the most people over the longest period of time. 

If the question instead assumed this basic level of human dignity that some people do not have and only meant "personal goals" in the sense of marriage, career, etc.. Then I fall back to the fact that those people need to be planting the seeds in others. Lifting others up from the bottom. Mentoring, talking, and opening up their minds to accept others into their success. Then, their own personal goals will fall into place. Focusing on the happiness of others does not mean you forget your own goals; it only means that you do not forget the wellbeing of others.  



