Everyone wants to be happy. Acheiving happiness underlies many of ouractivities, objectives, and persuits. People think they are trying to realize a certain goal when in reality they are trying to realize the state of being happy.

People have different strategies they take to achieve happiness. Some people look to GOD. In loving GOD and loving others they realize there desire for happiness. Some people selfishly just try to gratify themselves and their own needs and wants. I am a Christian. The long history of human beings clearly show that happiness is not achieved through putting yourself first. Happiness is only found in loving JESUS FIRST and loving your neighbor.

Human beings are spiritual being with a physical body. Our deepest desires can only be fulfilled by having a relationship with JESUS. As spiritual beings we can only find fulfillment through a relationship with loving GOD and loving our neighbor. Human beings come into the world searching for something or someone to fill the void inside. The void is a spiritual void only GOD can fill. Throughout the history of Christianity there are many examples of changed lives. People who felt there was no hope had an encounter with GOD. People on drugs, suicidal, depressed, feeling alone. Their lives have been changed, they have found the only real purpose in life there is, they are not only happy they are also joyful. 

People in the world persue pleasure and self gratification as a way to find happiness. Happiness is elusive. They try money, sex, food, other people,, fame. They may experience moments of pleasure but then afterwardfs they feel empty inside. They try to focus on themselves and their goals selfishly to feel good. They find no lasting happiness. People often talk about life being disappointing. They talk like something is missing in their lives. Their selfish persuits do not fill the void.

People who persue there own goals can achieve moments of pleasure. Also, focusing on our own goals does not have to be selfish or empty. If the internal goals are directed towards loving GOD FIRST and then our neighhbor then it is good. If the internal goal is directed outward it can be healthy. Unfortunately, being self focused oftten means your not focusing on GOD and others.  The gratification of the self always leads to disappointment. People will disappoint you, material things rust and decay, a sunny day will eventually turn to a rainny day. Only GOD can makes us happy. Only timeless things can fill the void.

Real and lasting happiness can only be found in looking outward to GOD FIRST and then other people in love. It's not found in the temporary gratification of our dying bodies

