Time and time again in American culture has revealed that happiness comes from pursuing personal growth and achieving goals, not from helping others. Though helping others alleviates a lot off issues and stress it can not maintain happiness. Happiness is gained from pursuing your interests and find meaning in your work. I argue this because helping others can lead to being taken advantage off, personal goals lead to mental confidence, and personal goals set your standards of achieving success and not a monetary value. Look at Donald Trump. He cares only about himself and he is one of the happiest people I have ever seen the man even set goals to become the President and attained them. He is a prime example of how focusing on your own happiness often outweighs focusing on others.

Many people will bend over backwords to help others. Often times these are the people who lose sight of their own lives and become easily manipulated and drained of their resources.  These people are the people who will inevitably become unhappy. Though they may feel good about helping others they will eventually feels the pangs of burnout that will seep into other aspects of there lives. This is a mistake that many people learn too late in their lives and are never able to truly regain their happiness from. It is a terrible mistake to make to lose out on that time you could have been bettering yourself.

Setting your own personal goals and achieving them can help you establish metal confidence. Mental confidence leads to your branching out and further developing yourself. Continual growth and acheviement are huge contributors to your happiness. This type of growth is often not achievable if focusing too much on others. Being leeched of your energy, time, pride, motivation, and trust will leave a sour taste in your mouth that you may never recover from, so do not risk it, focus on your own happiness. Self preservation is key as seen through Darwinism. It is scientificall proven that you should watch out for your own happiness. If everyone focuses on mainting their own happiness it will lead to a greater overall net benefit that will help more than if others are trying to make others happy. 

You define your own success when you set your own goals and strive to achieve them. You are not confined to the simple worth of your finances or what your job title is. As long as you are improving and bettering yourself you are likely to find happiness. You may help others but they can often still be negative and try to drag you down or devalue your goals. Focus on yourself and don't worry about what others are thinking, this is your one shot at happiness. You will not get another shot so best look out for number one, yourself. 

In conclusion I argue that  happines is better achieved through acheving personal goals and not through helping others. Inner happiness is achieved by focusing on yourself and moving forward. focusing to much on others will lead to your undoing. Plan, execute, conquer, obtain happiness, thats the formula. All the happiest people in history have followed this formula and their accomplishments and mental well being demonstrate exactly how necessary it is to focus on your own happiness. As I mentioned in my intro Donald Trump is a shining American example on how following your own happiness helps flourish a beautiful life with the best of things the world could ever offer you. From following his own happiness Donal Trump is now able to help the world, but he would not have been able to climb the ladder to that position had he not focused on what was important his own happiness and personal goals. With that attitude you to can have happiness off presidential proportions! Make yourself great!
