     The main question that many people have asked is, is more success achieved through cooperation or competiotion? Well, let me answer this success is acheived through hard ones who hard work but competion can motivate many to work even harder to acheive more. While, many work in groups success and relish in the success and friendships that coperation has brought others thrive in competition and try to be their best. Look at CEO of mahjor companies many didnt use coportation to get where they are they clawed and climed their way to the top using their competition as motivation to acheive great success. 
    Competition makes people strive to be better. Humans are hard core they are wired to surivie its in our DNA. Since we were cave men we competed with one another for resources because somehow we knew that if we didnt fight and compete for survival we would die off and our own genes would carry through. Competition is a natural motivation for success we see it in humans as well as animals. In the animal kingdom its all about competion. Thye compet for dominace and food the weak are cast of and die off or they are not allowed to breed and their genes never get passed down.The weak help care for everyone and collectively the whole group is successful. But ultimatly their is only one king of the jungle and that is won through competition and humans are the same way.  Humans compet for survival of the work place and to be the best. They need to prove to themselves that they are the best and reap the rewards that competiotin has to offer. While people who are not driven by comepetition may go off and have a pretty good life the one who use competition push themselves harder to acheive more. Which in turn helps everyone out in the long run because they have the disire and willingneess to go down the hard road and will but in more effort.
 
     Lets look at babies when they are born babies are loving and sweet right? Yes they are but they are also hard wired to survive. They will compete for attention and food with siblings. Children compete with each other to see who is the best. They out preform their siblings in school because they want to appease their parents. Teenagers girls compete with each other over beauty and boyfriends. Boys they compete with each other to see who can outy preform each other. Competion motivates people to acheive more success. It makes strong leaders who are willing to fight and this is what helps everyone along.   

    While cooperation helps everyone thrive competion makes the world go around. Without competition we would have indecisive leaders and people who are not wiling to fight hard to take a stand. Competion builds skills for tough leadership, hard work, and self-disipline. Competition is the motivation that many need to acheive great succcess. 

