An image is worth a thousand words. That phrase is still as true today as when it was first spoken. But do images have too much of an effect on people? I don't believe they do. The value in art is to express oneself using the medium of your choice. Talented artists can express themselves in ways that others cannot. Some things can't be expressed in words alone. And thus gives the significance to visual art and imagery.

It only makes sense for advertisers, marketers, and even celebrities or other public figures to also use visual imagery to improve their appearances. A good first impression is vital for success. Whether you are applying for a job, or creating an advertisement for a new product. If others don't gain a positive opinion from the onset, it could greatly ruin your chances of success in the future. It is imperative for one to take whatever steps necessary to ensure that initial impression is a good one. 

Some may argue that advertisements these days are deceptive and mislead the public, but this is not the case. The internet has allowed us more access to information that ever before. Now we can easily do our own research in order to make sure that companies are being honest with us. Fact-checking websites are ensuring that companies aren't being deceptive. Social media is aiding us by forcing companies to be more tranparent and holding companies accountable for unscrupulous behaviour.

How boring a world we would live in without the arts and it's use in visual imagery. Try to imagine shopping in a store where every product had the same boring and dull packaging with no artistic value whatsoever. Is this the kind the world you would want to live in? Not for me. Thanks to the internet, we have all of the access we need in order to research the claims companies make about their products. And thanks to fact-checking sites and social media, companies know that they will be held accountable for attempting to mislead the public. The value of imagery and it's ability to leave a lasting impression on us is something we should all be grateful for. It adds value to our lives and is something that no other species on the planet could truly enjoy.

