     I strongly believe that a person is more likely to be happy when they shift their focus off themselves and focus on helping others. When one focuses on oneself only, it is easy to magnify one's own problems and not see how much one has to be grateful for. When one is occupied with helping others it becomes easier to see how fortunate one is and to learn to count one's blessings. By seeking to be a blessing to others, one will learn how much less fortunate other people are and will become more thankful and content with one's own life. I learned this when I was younger and volunteered as part of the Hurricane Katrina relief effort. The year of 2005-2006 was one of the worse and most stressful years of my life. I was unhappy for most of the year. However, the part of the year that I look back with fondness is the week I spent in the Mississippi and New Orleans area helping people recover from the worst crisis of their lives. Although I saw a lot of distressing scenes during that week, and heard a lot of heartbreaking stories, the experience helped me reflect on my own life and suddenly my own problems seemed to pale in comparison with what other people were going through. I have never forgotten that lesson.
     Another reason I believe its best to focus on the happiness of others, is it helps you take your mind off your failures and helps prevent you from becoming impatient when things aren't progressing as fast as you think they should. When you are helping others accomplish their dreams, you feel a second-hand sense of happiness and get a joy out of seeing others succeed. This in turn gives you more courage to keep pursuing your own goals. Oftentimes, when one is busy helping others, one is unconciously developing skills that will play a huge role in one's own life. For example, by volunteering at a soup kitchen, one might learn skills such as resourcefulness, leadership, money and resource management, people skills, etc. These skills will come in handy later on down the road no matter what field one should choose to go into. One is gaining valuable life skills that cannot be taught in a school. Sometimes the network of associates that one comes in contact with through volunteer work can also later be called upon for one's own personal use.
     In addition, I think it is best to focus on being a benefit to others is that it will help you move away from quantifying happiness and making life about achieving certain benchmarks in various areas. Rather than aiming for a certain salary, a certain type of home in a certain neighborhood, a certain amount of kids, etc. One will learn to approach life with a grateful spirit and to embrace what life has in store for you. You learn that life is more meaningful when you make it about the experiences and the people rather than trying to keep up with what society has said is the standard of success. Instead of stressing one's self out to reach goals that might not even satisfy you, you can learn to walk your own path and define what success means to you personally. One will pursue personal fulfillment even though it may not come with the material success that is celebrated in the world around us.
     Finally, I believe taking the mind off a set blueprint to success prevents one from engaging in practices that are destructive to oneself. When one is desperate to reach a certain milestone, one can lose perspective and become so obsessed that one might even resort to dishonest and unethical means to accomplish one's goals. We see it all the time in the news where someone is so focused on their material objective, that they start cutting corners, stealing, engaging in dangerous practices, lying, and anything else that they feel is necessary to get ahead. In trying to reach a higher plane, they end up falling further behind when they get caught in their dishonesty and end up losing their job, or even facing jail time. Other people lose their health and personal relationships because they put these things on a backburner. In their minds they have to look out for themselves because no one else will. However, they fail to see the blessings that would have come to them in they were sacrificing for the good of others. The trust, love, and appreciation from others would have manifested itself into material benefits as well. People would have been more willing to work with them and to support their endeavors if they had proven themselves to be people of compassion and integrity.
     In closing, I would like to say, that I believe that no man is an island. In helping others, one creates a better and safer world which makes it more likely that when one achieves one's own dreams, one's resources will not be in jeopardy because everyone is content with what they have.
