People can be very materialistic. It's something prevelant in our society, and many of us become very attached to our possessions and get excited or happy when spending money. There are some cultures and religions like Buddhism that go against materialism, instead valuing minimalism and not becoming attached to things. But for the most part, people are greatly concerned with physical and material things either of value in general or valuable to themselves.

Based on what I've seen, I feel materialism is a negative thing and minimalism should be taught and valued. There are people so attached to their possessions that their houses fill to dangerous extents, they develop hoarding tendencies and it becomes detrimental to their health. And others may not fill or clutter, but spend so much money on material things that their health and actual needs become neglecting because funds have been allotted unwisely. So I think less truly is more and there is value in focusing on experiences, friends, and family and not on objects and fleeting excitement in spending money on the newest most trendy things.

I don't necessarily think modern society should be criticized for materialism, but it should be looked at with scrutiny and evaluated for pathologic behaviors. There needs to be balance and health above all else. There may be cycles of accumulating goods and then downsizing again. I don't think it's inherently wrong, but needs to be monitored and looked at for potential problems.

Others may argue differently, some people really love things and will spend thousands on the latest gaming consoles or phones. They might base their happiness in being up to date and having the latest and greatest of everything. I have known people that look down on others if they don't have expensive electronics or jewelry, or the most popular clothing brands. They may see it as being poor or uncultured to not have those things and hold it against others. I think if the things you have are functional and work for your needs, that matters more than spending extra money for a name brand or features you'll never use.

All in all, I think materialism isn't necessarily bad, but minimalism should be strove for to avoid negative health outcomes - both physical and mental. If one is materialistic they may look down on others for things either based in personal preference or circumstances outside their control. They may also overspend, or not allot enough money to take care of themself. If one values objects and goods highly, they may neglect other things in life like experiences or time with others. So if it's monitored, it isn't bad to like certain things. But there has to be some control, and if one can do with less, it's overall better for them.
