Modern society is known for being materialistic as  a whole, with people desiring their possessions over experiences anc connections. While this mindset is often used to focus on the betterment of society, in truth much of society is materialistic due to being beaten down; something that can hardly be critisised by anyone. That doesn't excuse society for its materialism that has been brought to the masses by the elites.
Many people today have to work 40 hours a week in a job that does absolutely nothing for there brains, souls, or hearts. They have to deal with a mundane boring drab life that weighs them down. It is no wonder then that people will turn to material needs to satisfy them, especially when everyone else in the world is equally as beaten down. The problem of materialism is largely a societal problem, and how fitting that those who complain the most tend to be those who grew up in a time before everything got worse. While it may be true that people are materialistic, consumption is the least intense action one can take. Fitting for a worn down generation and society.
Is it any wonder that people go on trying to produce and consume when society tells them they have to, when people have their parents telling them they have to *be* a productive member of society to function correctly. This mindset damages people, and makes them believe that taking a break or free time is absurd. The culture of the United States simply doesnt allow for many people to try and enjoy life.
In the end, it comes down to societal structure that we are materialistic. Those who aren't intiailly end up being pushed towards it as everyone in their life leaves to work all day to make money to buy things they dont need; they don't make time for the people who don't buy into it. Eventually, those people give up, they can't focus on a life of conenction if no one is willing to connect. Thus a vicious cycle is born where everyone ignores eachother, and focuses only on themselves.
Modern society is indeed too materialistic, but it is society at large's fauly, not the common person; when no one is around to entertain you, the next closest thing is to get something material, to consume something, to find anything to fill that void.
