Success can be defined in many different ways, especially when recognizing those from an individual. We live in a capitalist country where in many aspects of life, you must outmatch your competition in order to "survive". With that being said, cooperation is far more important than competition in our world. Competition leads us to believe that in order to find success, we must put someone else down. This is not the case, and cooperation between groups of people allows us to find success on multiple levels not only for ourselves, but also for what we want to represent.

Cooperation goes beyond just business, team sports, and any working environment. It is a crucial part of nearly every aspect of our lives, and most importantly, family. This isn't meant to just point out biological families because sadly, not everyone has a normal family dynamic. But it is also meant to address the close relationships you form throughout your life that allow you to feel a deeper connection with others that match your interests and morales. This idea goes along with cooperation because in order to be happy and find meaning in our lives, we need people to have our back and who pick us up when we fail. Cooperation goes beyond teamwork, it is instead the idea of humans coming together for the greater good of their desires that they wouldn't be capable of reaching on their own.

Although my argument is on the side of cooperation, this doesn't dismiss the relevance of competition in our society. In order to find success in a working world, you are more than likely going to deal with competition, whether that be competing with fellow job applicants or improving your business to outlast others. Competition is the norm of the business world and is necessary to survive. With that being said, the achievements that can be accomplished through competition stand nowhere near the success cooperation can provide.

Coming together for a common goal is one of the greatest things we can accomplish as human beings. The things that we can achieve with the help of others go far beyond anything we can achieve on our own and this is why cooperation is far more important for our world then competition is.
