No one lives completely seperate from other organisms in this world, and other organisms are central for our own survival. Likewise, it has been said that those who strive to achieve happiness for themselves, with that goal in mind, will always fall short. As such, other people are very important to our own wellbeing, and people are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others. 

If you think of your best memories, typically they will involve others. This is because other people are central to our own happiness. In fact, there have been many studies that have found that having strong social relationships is one of the most important factors in happiness. Well, in order to build and maintain strong relationships, we often need to build trust with others and positive feelings between us and them. One of the best ways to build positive feelings from someone else towards you is show you care about about them, and that you are a good friend. This involves listening to them, providing advice, showing up for important events, buying them gifts perhaps, etc. Through this behavior aimed at helping the other, you will build a strong relationship which will increase your happiness. Also, if you do these things for others, they will be more likely to do these things for you, and you will attract people who also show up for you. Thus, helping others in this scenario will increase your happiness.  

Moreover, people who live their lives to help others are the most fulfilled. Throughout history we can think of key figures like Ghandi, Mother Theresa, and so on who are praised and gain notoriaty  due to their care for others. These individuals have wisdom that is recognized as rare in our society, and they likely gained wisdom in service for others. In the same way, we can look those on the opposite spectrum. People like Donald Trump, Elon Musk, and the lot, whom have gained plenty of money through taking advantage of others in pursuit of their own agendas. These individuals can afford anything they want, but likely have internal turmoil that exists, and never will truly be self-actualized. 

Finally, helping others makes you just feel good. We have all experienced moments where we did something for another person and felt good afterwards. Likewise, people feel elevation when they see others doing good deeds for others. This is because the road to happiness is largely through trying to help increase the happiness of others, and we get great meaning from these experiences. 

Now, I will address a key rebutal of this proposal. People may say that you first need to fill your own cup in order to help others. Thus, one could argue that true happiness will come from trying to achieve your own happiness, and then this can be extended to others. While this sounds true, there are some holes in this argument. First, there are plenty of cases where people have come from nothing, down on their luck who have expressed that through taking care of others and trying to do good in the world, they found joy. Further, as I previously mentioned in my opening, when one focuses on trying to achieve happiness for themselves, they likely will not be able to achieve this. They will more likely find happiness by focusing on other pursuits such as helping others. Finally, I would argue that taking care of oneself and striving to achieve personal happiness are two different things. One can employ self-care and intuitively know when they need a break for example, but not be conciously thinking I must do this to achieve happiness. In fact, one would be dissapointed if they always thought the next thing they did for themselves would achieve them happiness, as this would be false.

Overall, while it is important to take care of one's self the true road to happiness is through helping other people achieve happiness. This is due to the important nature of others to our own well-being, the meaning and self-actualization we can get out of helping others, and due to positive feelings that arise when we help others. In the future, we need to strive to produce a society that cares for one another (particularly in the US), instead of our current individualistic lifestyles that have caused so many problems in the world (war, greed, climate change, etc). 
