In this essay, I put forth the stance that images and impression have too much of an impression on people. In the entertainment industry, there are probably millions of talented people who aren't successful because they are not attractive enough to meet industry standards. The first paragraph below provides a narrative about my stance on this topic. Product packaging is another domain where a consumer's perceived value of the product is likely influenced by the design of the packaging. This is discussed in the second paragraph below. 

In the 1990s, there was a pop group called Milli Vanilli. Two attractive guys singing pop music made it big. However, it would later come out that these two were actually lip syncing the music. The actual music had been recorded by other artists. This is an example of an extreme misrepresentation by the music industry to sell a product based on the appearance of the two people the public thought were the actual artists. These two good looking guys were energetic, charismatic, and above all, attractive. The original and actual singers were likely not good looking enough to bring in the sales from the targeted demographic of young people. While this is an example that is on the extreme side of the spectrum supporting good looks sell, it can also be argued that less attractive people have found success in music. For example, Susan Boyle was a matronly looking lady whose voice earned her recognition. However, she would undergo a makeover that resulted in her appearance changing to a more glamourous version of herself. Therefore, it could be said that even though Susan Boyle's voice earned her fame, her appearance had to change in order to maintain market value.

Product packaging the tratitional desnse of shelf items is another area in which the packaging may influence perceived value. Packaging may be designed to attract interest from those in the target demographic. I will use the office and home staple of the paper shredder as an example. Shredders are run of the mill and vary in aterms of straight or cross cut or how many pages can go through an one time. With packaging that shows the shredding capability on the box and big letters used to tell the consumer how manay pages can go through, a person may be more incluned to buy a particular shredder. It can be argued that price is a determining factor when buying a shredder, but if the cheaper otion does not deliver the features a consumer desires, the more expensive version with better value propositions on the packaging may be the winning product.

In conclusion, appearance and impressions matter to consumers. Whether it is a music artist or traditional product, things that appear to have greater value bring in more revenue. Attractiveness sells and companies go to great lengths to have teir product appeal to consumers. The music industry has used attractive people to sell records that may not otherwise sell based on the artist's appearance. Product packaging in the retail market can influence purchase decisions also. Ultimately, this points towards people wanting to buy things that are attractive, possibly because it makes them experience better feeling when doing so.


