What makes one happy?  This is a question that everybody would love to know the answer to. And most think they have some idea as to an answer. They think of things that bring them joy. Items, friends, family. They think of feelings they get when they see and observe things the like or think are good. But what is the main path to hapiness? How can we apply a brushstroke that hits everybody? No personal preferences and taste. But the so-called "true happiness". How does one achieve it? Through selfish pursuits? Through care for others? I tend to believe it is the latter.

I think you're more likely to experience a state of genuine happiness when your pursuits are more selfless. That's not to say you can't be aware of your own rewards for helping another. You have to enjoy it to experience it after all. But those personal rewards can't be the motivation. Seeing others succeed through your help is an experience you can't fulfil when you're always out for yourself. Yes, you get a greater share of reward when you act selfishly. And this may lead you to believe it is a greater reward. But we're in a classic quality versus quantity situation with happiness. You build better with a solid foundation and working meticulously rather than building straight up. Your peaks and valleys are more abrupt and violent when you are acting alone. Without a support system you can only spend so long on top and eons on the bottom. Misery is the opposite of happiness. And you must experience both. The longer you spend happy the more time you have to appreciate it though. If you are only peaking and having small tastes, no matter how good they are, you'll always be back to wallowing soon enough. You can then become used to the lows. Comfortable in the lows.

I think you'll find more quality and longer lasting happiness when your motivations are selfless. When you're out for yourself you will be able to capture seemingly happy moments easily and quickly but you'll be back where you started in the blink of an eye. Quality happiness is worked for, not grabbed at. So, for me, that's how you would find yourself happiness. By not looking for it yourself. Find it for others and it will find you just as easily as you find it. Seek happiness for all. And when you find yourself happy, be aware of why it is important. How it is the opposite of misery. Appreciate it for what it isn't and those experiences that make it all the more special. Live for happiness. Experiencing your happiness is always going to have an element of being selfish. But if you pursue it selflessly, you will have a more sustained happiness.


