Did you see that new car that Justin Bieber was driving? Did you see that new colonge that Kanye was advertising? Did you see that new makeup product line that Rihanna just released? Did you see the new iPhone 14 that everyone is raving about? All of these things are material things that consume our time and our money. As Americans, we always want the latest and newest thing, that celebrities are using or that the people around us have. It is a part of modern day society to be able to have those things and "stunt" them. It makes people look cool to their friends and have the ability to say that they spent so much money on it. 

However, even though we get sucked into this materialism, do people deserved to be criticized for it? Many people would say yes, while some may say no. In my opinion, people being materialistic shouldn't be criticized. There are times where people want to be able to treat themselves after a long and hard day, or they want to reward themselves with a material item because they have achieved a goal, and honestly, there is nothing wrong with that. People shouldn't be criticized for how they want to spend their money, because at the end of the day, people should have a choice on what they do with their lives, including their money. Although there will be judgments, it wouldn't be fair for someone to be criticized. 

There will be some people who disagree with this statement. Those people might say that people are getting sucked into the material items and not truly enjoying the beauty of life, like nature, exercise, etc. Instead, they are wanting the material things to make them happy when there should be so much more to life besides the material items. The people who disagree and believe that people should be criticized for being materialistic might say that people should enjoy what they have in life, especially their loved ones, instead of chasing the next big thing. 

Some things are worth the money being spent, while others aren't. However, how people decide to spend their money isn't up to any person to decide. It is only up to the person spending it, because it is their well earned money. There shouldn't be any type of criticism towards a person for spending on a materialistic item. Sometimes, people find beauty in spoiling or rewarding themselves, and that's totally okay. 
