Modern society should not be criticized for being materielstic. While some may argue that materialistic viewpoints are ruining society an equal point can be made that the people who are materialistic should not be critizied for wanting to have things. The average person is not overally materialistic to the point of harming others and therefore society does not deserve to be criticised as a whole for a few peoples actions.

Just becuase a small percent of people may be materialistic to the point of harming others it does not mean that we should start criticizing society as a whole. I belive most poeple would argue that society today has to much criticism and I believe that most people if asked would say that more criticism would be extremely futal and only bring harm towards society as a whole.  

Some may argue that people who are more focused on material possesions are a debt to society because they lack appreciation for things that are not materialistic. While there are certainly some who are like this the majority of people who would consider themselves materialistic are not going to hurt someone physically or mentally on purpose for the puruit of more materials. Furthermore the idea that we should critisize society for those few people is wrong. 

Another arguement could be made that those who are more materialistic are hurting those who may not be able to afford certain things. This arguement could be made by someone who may feel like someone who has a large house or many possesions is showing off or using more than they deserve. This arguement is also false. While the person still may be doing something that is wrong on should still take the prompt into question. That is why I say that idea of criticizing an entire society for some peoples actions is outrageous. We do not judge society as a whole because people murder. While we do look at society differently when there are large amounts of violent crime the arguement should be made that there are much more serious things in our society that we should be criticized for other than materialism. 

Another arguement that could be made is that simply people materialism is no one elses business if they do not want it to be. I would argue that being apart of a society whilst technically not a choice, being an active member of society is. One can chose to not be an active member of societ and many people do make that decision. Those people should not be counted towards the idea of materialism becasue they simply can not really be included in society .

Materialism is not a bad thing in moderation. People may claim that the constant need for intertainment and consumtion are harming to our society but the reality is that the creation of that content people are consuing is often actually a good thing for society as it provides jobs and puts food on the table and a roof over the head of many people. Think how often you hear someone mention they work in media or for a large tech company. The reality is if we did not consume as much meadia as we do then those people would be out of a job.

Another thought to be made known is that materialism is also a passed down trait. Many of the older genertaions seem to be the ones that hold on to items. One may wonder why they do this but I believe the anser is clear. The older generations of today where raised by people who grew up during the great depression. The great depression and its consequences are massive to people materialism. I believe some of the older crowd is so materialistic because they where raided by people who grew up in a time where everything was suddenly gone practically overnight. This meant that they held on to what they had much more tightly and valued it much more. This mindset leads to materialism and can we really critisize a whole society because of their actions? I believe we can not critisize a whole society becasue of one groups action unless that action is clearly causing harm to others and iI believe materialism is most certainly doing more good for people than they may realize.

Society should not be criticized more because the people who are materialistic only make up a small percentage of the populatioin. Furthermore society today is already full of criticism and people do not need more in their lives. People are entitled to make their own choices about what they value and they do not deserve criticism for their values. Materialism is also not necisarilly a bad thing either. While it can have negative effects it may also have positive ones that are often overlooked by people. The idea that society deserves and or needs more criticizing is absurd.
