What is happiness?  This is a question most people would likely agree is an important one as happiness is generally considered to be a good thing.  Yet how often do people stop to ask how they define happiness?  For most people, the answer is likely never.  Accordingly, the focus of most people regarding happiness is not the essence of happiness itself but what makes them happy.  Two broad categories are proposed as sources of happiness which we will look at below: the pursuit of personal goals or a focus on the happiness of others.  So, which of these is more likely to make one happy?

The answer, as some might have suspected from the introduction, that the answer is as simple as it is frustrating: it depends.  I posit that happiness is generally understood at only an instinctive level as some amorphous concept which is more of a feeling than any coherent thought. 
Essentially, people identify things that make them happy via the emotional response elicited by a given action.

Accordingly, there is no universal measure of the amount of happiness derived by any given actions.  Whether someone draws more happiness from the pursuit of a personal goal or a focus on others is completely personal.  This is supported by both genetics and the established concept of experience-dependent neuroplasticity, insofar as both genetics and experience fine tune/condition the brain (and associated neuronal pathways and neurotransmitter responses/sensitivities) to find certain things pleasurable.  Accordingly, what gives one person happiness may not provide another person any worth (e.g. a sociopath will likely care little for the happiness of others).

Yet many will object to this conclusion by noting that outliers should be ignored and this question should be answered on average for the human population.  On average, they might argue, bringing happiness to others is more fulfilling and therefore provides a higher quality of happiness to a broad scope of the population.  Alas, this argument is flawed in that it falsely assumes happiness is necessarily a moral good.  In truth, happines is more hedonic.  There is no evidence that the absolute value of a unit of happiness derived from a mother caring for her child versus a drug addict feeding their addiction.  Both acts are motivated and mediated by dopamine (among other neurotransmitters) implying at least some measure of comparability while the subjective experience is not quantifiable.  Any attempt at quantification of this subjective experience is inherently biased by the frame of reference of the viewer.

In summation, happiness is a subjective experience that is driven emotionally (by the limbic system) rather than rationally (by the prefrontal cortex) so any qualitative comparisons between the relative value provided by proposed sources of happiness is pointless.  Happiness is relative.

Post-script: I moved off this page one to check the timer on the hit to make sure I wasn't running out.  Sorry!  I also ran out of time on the 30 minutes so this isn't as fleshed out and coherent as it should be.  Sorry again!
