What car do you own? What computer do you have? Do you have the latest I-phone? Does your job pay well? These are all questions we are being asked many times in our life, and they all lead back to the dreaded world of materialism.
I have strived many years to earn as much money as possible, so that I will be able to afford anything I want to buy. But after what seemed like an endless struggle, I came to realize that I had lost interest in the very thing I had spent so such energy on. I didn't want to be the person that earned the most anymore, or that can buy the newest technology when it became available. 
I had been anxious, depressed, fearful of making mistakes and of judgement by others. I was isolated and overworked, burned out from the constant hustle. And it became clear that a very simple concept had become more crucial with time: happiness or contentment. I only have one life to live, and the way I feel during it, is more essential to me now than how much I can buy.
There are of course times when saying no to things that you desire is difficult. You see millionaires, so called high achievers or simply lucky heirs, and you can't help feeling jealous, and wish it was you. You imagine the hapiness it could bring you to not have to worry about paying your bills, or how much the down payment for a house is. It would certainly relieve some financial stress that most of us experience. But most of us will never get to that place and even if we did, there is no guarantee of happiness that comes with it. You can buy as many things as you want and still be a miserable, depressed person.
My priorities have changed with age. I regret spending so much time on things that I didn't want to do and that made me feel stressed on a constant basis. Now I like doing things that I chose, not that were assigned to me. I don't care anymore about what car I drive or how new my phone is. Can it get me to the beach where I can go for a swim, floating on my back, relaxing in the sun? That's all I need afterall.
