Materialism is something that has been around since the beginning of time, we have always strived to show others what we have, who we are and what we can accomplish through our possession. These often leave a first impression when we meet someone and can be influential in how we navigate our way through societal hierarchies. Is this a bad thing? I believe it is not, unless it is obsessed about to the point where it is the only thing that matters.

The idea that we shoud not have nice things because it is shallow or does not accuratly reflect our inner character is absurd. People can use these items in so many different ways, for play for instance. Halloween is based almost completely off of the things you have on your house and things you wear, is that bad? Or to show a boss you take pride and care in how you dress, how you present yourself and that you believe it is worth your time to try and impress them. This shows you have drive and passion.

Materialism also is a way to drive innovation. If people did not want these nice things that people care so dearly about, then the drive to succeed and aquire these things would not exist as strongly, which would lead to an overall less accomplished society. When we build and create more, the quality of life for every person increases. If we stay stagnent life becomes less meaningful and is turned into dimeneal tasks or maybe just purley socialization, without all the fun activies and memories created by people that hope to profit from these experiences and increase their own level of wealth and flash through doing so.

We all know that materialism has its dark sides as well. Yes when people become too materialistic they become obsessed, completely blind to rational behavior and can only see themselves and the people around them as extentions of the things they own and choose to express themselves with. But this has always been a small subset of people, usually with a very weak mind and character development. These people are so easy to spot when they have the ability to express themselves and judge others through materialism that it is a good indicator to stay away from them, and let them live their miserable lives far away from your ear.

In conclusion, I believe that while there are many arguments to be made that materialism is dangerous and must be stopped, it is a recurring theme in human nature than ends up bringing fourth inovation and creations that improve all of our lives and the world as a whole. And that the small subset of individuals that allow it to consume their being and dictate their life will exist in every community built. This means that as a society we should continue to have the ability to think for ourselves and allow poeple to take pride in and present themselves however they want, many of them could end up learning from their mistakes over time and grow. Society can handle our desire for materialism, and we are lucky to have such a motivator to keep our species ever evolving.
