What does every human need to live? Food, shelter, and water. But what does every human need to be happy? Love, freedom to live how they want, healthiness, hobbies, sex, friendship, companionship, a nice pair of shoes, a winter coat. The list for happiness as opposed to simply living could go on and on, with no end. So what is the difference between simply living and living a happy life? There are as many answers to this question as there are humans on this Earth. For some, it's pets, children, free time, motorcycles, waking up every morning to a perfect cup of coffee. For some, it's just the little things in their life that enhance it along the way.

Modern society is filled with materialism and consumerism. We can't go five minutes without seeing an ad or someone trying to sell us something new. People with money like to spend it, and sometimes they spend it in ways that others could never understand, like on expensive hobbies or luxury products or designer clothes. However, people did not get that money handed to them. Unless they inherited it, they usually worked for it. And even if they didn't, are they not allowed to spend any money in a way that makes them happy?

Some might say that materialism is a selfish waste, that there shouldn't be as much emphasis on purchasing THINGS as there is in our consumerist society, so much as there should be on helping mankind as a whole or funding larger projects like environmentalist issues. However, I would argue that the common man is allowed these fruits of his labor. Any human is allowed to spend their money not just to live, but to live a happy life. Whatever that happy life may look like, and whether people understand it or not.

So in this modern age where children are raised with tablets and elders are able to purchase the newest Smart TV to replace the old box one they've had since the 90s, materialism can go a long way in improving the quality of life of millions of people. Those who criticize it are allowed to, of course, but at the end of the day, if an $8000 dress makes a girl who's working two jobs feel like she's worth a million bucks, is she really in the wrong for spending her money to improve the quality of the time she has left on this Earth? Are you?
