Images and impressions have way too much of an effect on people in our modern world. So many people lack the ability to use any sort of critical thinking that they gullibly believe whatever they see. The effects of images and impressions being mistaken for reality can and do have far ranging consequences in our world including issues as important as religion, politics and world affairs; while also extending down to simple everyday decisions such as which products to buy or the judgment of people based entirely on first impressions.

As a primary example of this damaging and dangerous phenomenon, consider American politics. So often people vote not on the basis of what any particular candidate actually has to say or what positions they will take on the issues, but rather people base their vote -- whether conciously or unconsciously -- on how a candidate looks. Attractive people with no obvious leadership ability or qualifications to actually hold office commonly win elections simply because they have pleasing features or a nice smile. This, by the way, is not limited to one political viewpoint or persuasion, it happens on both sides of the American political spectrum from Sarah Palin on the right to Beto O'Rourke on the left. 

Religion is another space in our modern world where images and impressions are unfortunately mistaken for reality. People are shown fanciful pictures and paintings of angels and demons, gods and devils and they subsequently believe whatever nonsense is fed to them by preachers, evangelists and popes. This, of course, gets to the real heart of the issue and is the main reason why people being so suspetible to appearances is so dangerous; it enables small groups of manipulative people to control and exploit everyone else. 

Take a moment and consider all the wars, all the killing, all the butchery, all the crusades, all the witch trials, all the deaths that have occured throughout history due directly to people being brainwashed by images and impressions and failing to think critically or question what they are told. Human history is almost nothing but bloodshed and this fact is due largely to gullible people constantly mistaking appearances for reality and believing whatever is shown to them.

As a species, the only way we can move forward and continue our recent trend of actually advancing humanity and making strides toward a better world for all people is to not let impressions cloud our judgments, to not be fooled into believing whatever good-looking or outwardly convincing people might say, to not blindly believe things simply because that's what we are told. This path forward is more difficult than simply going on first impressions, but it ultimately is the only way to stop the manipulation that has plagued our species from the beginning and to make real, concrete progress toward a more thoughtful, benevolent and enlightened world. 

