Impressions matter - and no one understands this better than mainstream media. Regardless of what the truth may or may not be, or how well-suited politicians are to represent people, or even how the presentation of an event will negatively affect people's mental and spiritual health, mainstream media understands that skewing viewpoints via intelligent yet hidden manipulation can bring them recognition, respect, advantage and, of course, profit. But are such manipulative tactics beneficial to the intended audience, and do the images and the impressions they create have too much of an impact on people?

It is my firm belief that they do. First and foremost, the news, images, and opinions presented by mainstream media often create unnecessary tension between people who would otherwise see eye to eye on almost everything important - such as the importance of love, kindness, community, and equal rights. That such tensions can easily escalate has been proven time and again. For example, the negative press created around presidential candidates in recent years almost certainly led many voters to enable politicians who were, in truth, entirely unsuited to their profession and who turned out to drag the United States into a deep recession. The same happened when social movements were presented to be 100% positive but caused deep social division, aggressive campaigns from both sides of the fence, and even all-out violence. Examples of such movements were BLM, social justice, and fact-checking, the latter of which (or perhaps all of which) caused a sharp uptick in censorship and the creation of cancel-culture.

Had mainstream media presented these matters without bias, examining all viewpoints, not resorting to presenting extreme views or violent imagery, and giving equal weight to each, such tensions would've undoubtedly remained relatively low.

Naturally, one might argue that mainstream media's job is to present news in whatever way, shape, or form it appears, and this would be a fair assessment. However, mainstream media has not exhibited such unbiased behavior and instead focuses on presenting news in a way that supports the views of their corporate sponsors. This creates a conflict of interest, and it influences the masses to act in negative ways against anything that does not agree with a given person's beliefs - which are often shaped and cemented firmly into the mind by the impressions created by mainstream media. Add to this the slew of rousing imagery used by MSM, chosen and perhaps specifically designed to be evocative, to address a certain group and put another group in a bad light, and the outcome is almost always negative.

In my opinion, thus, all mainstream media outlets should return to focusing on reporting unbiased news - what, when, where, who, and why - without interpretation or opinions. Not only would this reduce the effect MSM's imagery and opinions have on people's views, but it would enable people to return to reason and engage critical thinking to form their own opinions.

There is nothing wrong with presenting imagery or opinions, and it should, in theory, not have a negative effect on people or cause social division, but it does. This is why I believe that media outlets need to understand just how powerful and potentiall destructive the impressions they create are on a human level. People, in turn, should understand that the images they see, opinions they hear, and impressions they form based on these things are not necessarily in the best interest of humanity or even themselves. Only through a reduction of misleading and bised information on part of the media will sanity return to a rapidly declining world.
