Happiness is a multifaceted prism; it does not exist along a singular spectrum of analysis. Therefore, the definition of 'happiness' for each individual will be precisely that - individual in definition. That does not mean, however, that one cannot weigh the differences in these potential definitions, in addition to the benefits and harms outlaid in each for any particular individual in their pursuit of happiness.

One may believe that their personal happiness is best attained through devotion to, and effluescent pursuit of, the happiness of others. Take your doctors, veterinarians, wait staff, massage therapists, et cetera. They thrive off of the simple pleasure of providing pleasure and service to others. Yet a fascinating conundrum arises; for when are these wretched servants of the working class meant to attain any sort of pleasure for themselves? The classic tale of the clown Pagliacci, who, suffering from depression, consulted a doctor, who told him to "go see the clown Pagliacci." The conundrum unfolds itself.

And yet, what then is a definition of "happiness" that focuses solely on the self? Abrahamic religions might charitably decry such a personal philosophy as hedonistic - pursuant moreso to the reckless laws (or lack thereof) of Sodom and Gomorrah rather than the good word of the Lord. It is true that a working definition of happiness that equates the accrual of stores of monetary wealth with a sense of soul-fulfillment is, at best, lacking in color, and at worst, an illustration of the very void of a soul existing at all.

Indeed, 'happiness' itself is a fickle descriptor. The filmmaker Todd Solondz knew this well when he directed the namesake dramedy "Happiness" - a film that, as any rational perusal of its plot synopsis would tell you, displays absolutely anything but happiness during its interminable run time. Yet, isn't that the rub - "happiness" as the ideal we all hold to be sacred in our heads, the shining light that guides many of our most intimate and sacred interactions between ourselves and the rest of the world, may not really exist at all!

Ultimately, it boils down to semiotic and linguistic theory - as so many essential philosophical concepts do. As we are duly required, let's break out the Baudrillard! Or, at the very least, Plato - I'm sure either of the two would agree with what I'm about to express, at least, in theory. A word like "happiness" is as illustrative as any of the gap between 'signifier' and 'signified.' That is to say, that the set of vowels and consonants that make up the word 'happiness' have little to no connection to the inherent meaning of what it means to 'have happiness' or to 'be happy.' 

We are each automatons of skin-flesh governed by brain-flesh, similar and dissimilar, expected to be able to communicate our perceptions, emotions, thoughts, feelings, and desires adequately using the base construct of language. One wonders how anyone can profess 'happiness' at all - except there are obviously very baseline feelings and associations many of us share with the word, images of sunflower fields and misty ocean waves breaking upon the beach shore. Of grass-green pastures and the cool periwinkle of the open blue sky.

Images of beauty, awe, and wonder; of amazement, serenity, and bliss. The natural world in all its glory: a gazelle grazing on the savannah, a lion stalking in its path. Do these creatures experience 'happiness' too? Does my little cat-cat with her emerald eyes gazing up at me in the darkness do so with the full weight of love in her little cat heart? It's so deliciously tempting to limit our conception of all the world has to offer by corraling it all into Pandora's boxes of 'meaning' - perhaps, then, the ultimate goal should be not to focus on what will help one attain happiness, but rather how to recognize it all around them, in its infinite fragmentation.
