"We are living in a material world." - Madonna. And we are, she wasn't wrong, especially when you consider this song was written in the 80's at the height of the United States becoming wealthier and hence, more materialstic. But has materialism beyond a simple catchphrase destroyed us? Has it ruined our moral fabric? Has it made us more interested in acquiring wealth than acquiring things of true value? As a child of the 80's, I have to say yes.

Materialism has led to greed, an enormous wealth gap, and younger generations getting poorer as the older generations sit on all of the wealth. Let's face it, we millenials do not and will not ever have it as good as our parents did. They had every chance at true wealth, which to me is having a family, owning a home, and having financial freedom. Materialism is not wealth, it is the desire for luxury and that comes with greed, debt, and of course--a price. Much pun intended. A society that is soleley focused on materialism WILL fail. And we are seeing that today. I mean, look at all of the people in my gerneration who are suffering the effects of inflation, outrageous student loan debt, credit card debt, and excessive taxation. Who benefits? Surely not us, but the billionaire class and the political class. What got us here? Greed. Let's face it, you can buy a seat in congress, the senate, or even the White House. It's all about money. You may not like to hear it, but that's the truth.

But what can't you buy? Love, family, companionship. All things that my generation is lacking. We are wage slaves who work and work, yet have nothing to show for it. More than half of us still rent and some even live at home with their parents. I have a cousin who is 32 years old, living at home with his mother, yet he's driving around a car that costs as much as the down payment that my husband and I put on our house. And let me tell you, from the time I met my husband and had my children, I began to realize that I only needed the simple things in life--a roof over my head, food in my stomach, and a loving family by my side. We have a populace that's learning this the hard way, as they dig themselves out of excessive college debt without a decent job to show for all that debt. As they lose their overpriced homes, struggle to pay inflated rents, and even put gas in their cars. Nothing in this world comes without a price. A luxurious utopia where everything is "free" is just not realisitic. Someone, somewhere is footing the bill. And there's nothing glamourous about any of it. Consumerism is not what we refer to as capitalism, which used to be a part of the American dream. Now that dream is not even attainable for most. 

In conclusion, I believe that modern society should be criticized on the basis of materialism. For many reasons beyond what I've mentioned, it has been a large part of our downfall. I truly do not know how anyone can look at the world compared to how it was for their parents and refer to what we have as "progress." You'd have to be absolutely delusional. "I don't care too much for money, money can't buy me love." -The Beatles. Interestingly, a song that represents a better and much simpler time.
