The world is an ever advancing place. The people continue to improve and create things that the past would have never dreamed of ever existing. As we continue to improve the more we want. The more we want the more things we create to fill that want. Materialism is just a nice word we have made to describe the need to fulfill our desires. Should we -modern society- be judged for such a thing? A simple answer to a simpler question: absolutely not.

Here's a question: what is materialism in the first place? Attaining things through a transaction of monetary value. Here's another question: why would that be bad? Creating things, whatever that may be, (such as furinture, kitchenware, or books, games, or useless things to decorate where we live) provides people with jobs. Not just one job of making the product, no, there are several jobs just by an object existing. We need people to make these objects, we need people to promote these products, we need people to drive these products to certain places or our houses. There are so many jobs created just by our need to be materialistic. We should not be ashamed of being materialistic when it provides people the oppurtinites for a job.

However, there are people that do think that we should be criticized for being materialistic. Making our possessions can cause many harmful things to happen to the world at large. It can stripe our natural resources from the environment. And when we get tired of these possessions we have truly no where to throw them out that will not cause harm to the earth. Their opinions are valid. But, does that outweigh what we get from attain these materialistic things? An ever advancing society that gives some much knowledge, experiences we would have never attatined if we did not have these desires to have. It does not outweigh what we get being so. We should not be judge by people who do not understand how much we get by being us.

People, all around the world, are just human. It is human to want things. To have things. To be insatiable in their need to have happiness from what ever little they can get. It is not wrong to be materialistic. It is human nature to be and we should not be critized by it. It provides and gives so much more than simple objectification. As we continue to advance in everything throughout the years the more we can freely be who we are- materialistic without any judgement.
