 Many people dislike materialism in our modern society. The aquisition of things has become very vital to how our society works. Is it really a bad thing? 
  I myself don't really view it as a bad thing. All through out human history, we have been collecting things. Some of these things help us in our everyday lives. Some of them are just to impress others around us. Most of them though just make us happy. Could you be happy without all of the things you have?
 When humans first appeared on earth, they were not very inteligent. They hunted and gathered food when they were hungry. Slept in caves to keep out of the elements. When they discovered fire, they then started collecting the materials needed to make a fire. Early humans gathered materials to make tools for hunting. These things weren't needed before but made their lives easier. As humans evolved they also started collecting other things. These other things were sometimes shiny rocks. Things like gold and jewels. These could be traded for other things.
 Materialism has a dark side though. Buying things you don't have a use for just to show off your wealth. That can be a bad thing. I had a friend who bought an Iphone. They also bought an apple watch. Then they got an Ipad and a mac book. All these things pretty much do the same things. Yet this person would carry them all with them everywhere they went. This is a bad form of materialism. I asked them why and they always told me they needed it all. They told me that if ones battery died they had the others to fall back on. Having the mac book to work on was easier than the phone.
 Materialism can be bad, however everyone alive to day is materialistic. Some more than others. Since the dawn of man, Humans have been materialistic. Things make our lives easier. Things make us happy. Materialism has been growing in our civilizations since the dawn of mankind. You can even see it in some animals. Deep down on an animalistic level we like shiny things.
 Should we criticize modern society for being materialistic? Yes. As evolved intelligent beings we should. We can see the bad in it. We can recognize that it can hurt us. We can also recognize that it can be good for us. It is a double edge sword. 
