Everyone has things that they like and are willing to spend money on. It's common practice and isn't a big deal nor thought about that much. But, there does come times where people put material objects before the more important things in life. These unmaterialistic things vary between person to person, like love, family or adventure, but overall we have met people that fit this discription. Does it matter though? Is it a big deal if people care more about objects than the world around them? You don't really need material object to be happy.

It's okay to like material things. This guy might like buying video games or this girl might like buying shoes. I think at the end of the day, they know that it's not that important and could give them up if it meant for their better wellbeing. When talking about someone being materialistic versus liking material things, we're comparing someone who would sacrifice anything to have that object where as the other end is someone who could give it up for things that are more important. Things that could be more important are health, family, friends and happiness. Some people think money can buy happiness but in actuality it's those people who usually end up alone. People would marry into money even if they didn't care for their partner. They desire the marial things and are willing to go to the extreme for it.

Even those who aren't materialistic in their entirety can experience some form of materialism though. You may buy a new car and feel the need to show it off or maybe you bought expensive clothes. Materialism isn't a thing to be proud of but it is something we all experience. We would like to tell ourselves that the objects we buy aren't the source of our happiness but we do infact get a rush and enjoyment from these things that push us to obtain more. It is a source of happiness, just maybe not long term.

Overall, it's okay to like material things, just don't rely on them as the major source for your happiness. Focus on a hobby or friends and family to fuel your happiness. If you're materialistic, take a step back and ask yourself, do you really need this in order to live your life to the fullest? There are more to people than what they have in their bank or the car the drive or the house they own. Be happy for multiple reasons, not just because of what is in your possession.
