    Materialism is something that most people have heard of and something weve all been a victim to in our lifes. Materialism is hard to avoid in todays society. New inventions come out all the time and we decide to spend money on the things we like. Everybody in society does in now days. Materialism makes some people very happy but not others. It is important to some but some people dont see it as a good thing at all. 
   Materialism is something majority of people are familiar with. In modern society it is hard to avoid. Some people choose to criticize modern society for being materialistic, but that shouldnt be the case. Materialism is something people choose to do which makes them happy. Criticizing someones happiness or telling people how to spend there money isnt the right thing to do. 
   I have always like to buy things that I think are cool or that I would enjoy. Im sure a lot of people also do the same. The thing is we should not be critized for doing these things just because we like items or want to spend money on them. Some people know that money or material dont bring true happiness but it might bring temporary happiness or satisfaction. Who is anybody to critize another person for that? I dont think people who arent materialistic are any better than people who are. In a way we are all materialistic to some degree. Modern society has made it look like a bad thing to be materialstic because they think that some people get lost in the idea that materials are all we really will ever have. Some people do think this way but I think most people realize this is not really the reality even if it looks like it from the outside looking in.  
   People say that materialism is bad but is it really? Materialism has been a thing for many years. As we progress into the future with new things and new interest materialism is going to be on a greater scale. In life you either live it how you want or how others tell you. You have that choice. In the end we all go to the same place. People should focus on themselves and not try to worry about what they cant control. Materialistic people are in no way better than people who arent. Just because a person is materialstic doesnt take away the fact a person can be smart or be religious. It doesnt take away the fact a person knows that material things are only temporary happiness. Critizing people who are living the life they choose is not the right thing to do. Therefore modern society should not be critisized for being materialistic. 
