I feel that being materialistic has always been present in society from the beginning of time.  It's not ever going to change.  We don't need to criticize it, but more be aware of ourselves and our true needs. 

People have always been trying to gain more material items from the beginning of time, even back in the caveman days people were gathering posessions and trying to amass wealth and status.  In the pioneer and settler days, people were trying to accumulate items and set up homesteads.    I think it is even more prevalent now in society with all the media and advertisements we are exposed to now a days.  And it is starting to affect younger and younger individuals because of what they see on a daily basis.  I have friends childeren that I am amazed at what they know and what they constantly are wanting.  It's like they never have enough "stuff".

Now, I know there's an exception to people that are materialistic in life.  I know people that aren't overly materialistic and appreciate what they have, but people have always had a need to have "stuff".  Some just range in more in quantities than others. 

I am from Montana, and there are Hutterite Colonies.   They live in the colonies and it's a sharing society where everyone lives in the exact same homes, wears the same clothing and have only the basics for personal posessions.  Sometimes I think they have it right, and other times I think about what they are potentially missing out on.  They don't know the difference really, because they aren't allowed to use the internet, don't watch TV and don't see newspapers.  Maybe not being exposed to so much media is a good thing.  You don't need alot to have a good life and be happy.  

I think people sometimes need to take a step back and seperate their needs from their wants, and really examine why they want something(s).  Materialism can really be done in excess these days, which think is not good.  I do think people should take a few days to think about making big purchases and be careful with their spending.  There is more credit card debt now than ever, and it comes from our increasingly materialistic society that we are living in.  

I don't think materialism is necessarily good or bad, we just need to be aware of it because it is a way of life and is never going away in our lifetime.  Criticize it or praise it, love it or hate it, it will always be present in life.   


