In today's society, vanity and how a person looks on the outside are important prequisites for success in life. The is true for most of western culture. The way we are perceived by others, whether it's an employer, or a talent agency, influences how far we can go to land that perfect job, or get the perfect role. Businesses and advertisers capitalize on this, and of course churn out products that make us look younger, more fit, and can even give us the appearance of more hair. Besides the fact the people in the spotlight often are not what they seem, the media portray's these public figures as god like, and people idolize them. This can be a problem because of how influencial social media/media is on people, especially young adults. Politicians, pop stars, and people who are in the spotlight look powerful and successful. The make up worn on there face's, the expensive clothes they wear, and the way they carry themselves make's people what to be like them. The problem is, our expectations are way to high as "regular people" in society, and sometimes when people fail to achieve something they see on tv, whether it's to hold public office, or to become a singer, then it's a recipe for disaster, which can lead to harmful outcomes. What we see is not always as it seems, especially when it comes to public figures. The amount of time/money to engineer the appearance of success and attractiveness is more then what the majority of people can achieve, but since it looks that way, and we want to believe it, then that's what we think is true. We want to live in fantasy, because our daily lives are boring, and envy is a powerful thing. Some people will say that it's not wrong for these public figures to be in the spotlight, wear all of the product and makeup they want, and to sell sex and controversy, by using there looks, and using their words. In the right context it might actually be a good thing. It could be good for people who want to make there lives better, and pursue their ambitions. It could give people the much needed " kick in the butt" to get motivated and lose weight. It could also make people more competitive, which is a good thing in society because that's where innovation comes from. The only problem, not everyone is the same, and not everyone has the same goals and aspirations as other's do. Because of peoples expectations, any failure can drive them into a bad place, and that's where the unrealistic view of these public figures come in to play, driven by media consumption, product consumption, and it's deceiving. I think people can overcome there insecurity's in life, and not set a standard for themselves because of what they've seen on TV. I have confidence in people and our society, and I am a firm believer in mental health counseling. People will always want to be someone else to certain extent, and there's nothing wrong with that, but just don't let it take over your life.
