American society has a tendency to be hypocritical in many different situations. A huge and relevant one we face is materialism. We simulataneously celebrate people who have acquired a lot of things and most people thiemselves value others who own lots of things of value, but also despise the system at the same time. I personally believe that we should be putting way less of an emphasis on materialistic things and that society should be criticized for being too materialistic.
I think that the most important thing in the world is interpersonal relationships. These are not a material possession, but rather something that exists everywhere with or without items. Unfortunately, because of how much we emphasize the status associated with what we own, it can ruin people's relationships because they want to spend time with people of similar status. Rich people who own a lot of things tend to want to associate with other people with a lot of things, which creates a class divide that I think is horrible for society. It ruins how we evaluate other people we see. The materialistic culture can also lead to mental illnesses for a lot of people. Those who make less money and thus do not have as many possessions may feel quite down about their situation. They can feel like a failure in life simply because they do not have the ability to own what other people they see have. It means that everyone is constantly comparing themselves to others, which is not healthy and can create feelings of apathy between groups that further divides the social classes that we have arbitrarily created.
Society has alos become far too dependent on goods as a result of our materialistic history. We no longer provide for ourselves as often and instead rely on others to make stuff for us. While this works and is great, it leads to a culture where work is everything. To keep the line moving, people are constantly overworked and stressed out, which sucks the enjoyment out of life. If, in order to gain status, you are working 10 hours a day, are you really going to have time to enjoy those materialistic things you are buying? I would argue that no, you will not, and the time spent to gain those things are not worth it at all. The mental health of people is compromised because of this type of mindset. Working way too hard can make things not as enjoyable, so people work harder to try and gain more things to feel better, which creates a very dangerous cycle.
Of course, some would argue that life gets a lot of meaning and enjoyment because we have access to so many things, and that materialism pushes people to acquire more to get more enjoyment. I do not necessarily disagree with the sentiment, and I think the feelings of achievement from, say, buying a fancy new car can be a really positive thing for people for their mental health. However, this oftentimes again falls into people doing too much comparison to those around them. Why do people want that nice car? They often do not even drive them to not ruin the,, and instead have them to show off their status to others. I think it is ridiculous. Purchasing things for personal pleasure is absolutely okay, but when society has made pleasure and status go so hand-in-hand, I just do not feel like it is worth anything. It means these possessions can feel very hollow affter a certain amount of time has passed. 
Another argument to use for why materialism is good is that it drives people to work harder and succeed in order to own a lot of things. Having money is great and strongly desired, so desiring that can push people to get educated or learn a trade or take on a bunch of jobs. However, I believe that far too often this comes at the expense of personal enjoyment. As mentioned earlier, I believe that relationships with others should be the most important thing, but pushing for more materials can drive people away from each other which I think is awful. Why have all the money in the world if you have no one to spend it with? You hear the phrase "It's lonely at the top" so often because to get the possessions you want, it often comes at the expense of others. I find this to be a huge failure of modern society, where we should instead celebrate being friends with others and having a large social network. Too often does it feel like you can have only one or the other, friends or money.
I really do think that to an extent, materialism is a good thing. Possessions do make us happy and can drive us to do amazing things. However, the way that society has emphasized it is entirely wrong. You should acquire things that make you happy only because they make you happy. Turning everything into a contest to see who owns the nicest things is absolutely ridiculous and is a failure of modern society. 
