In this digital age, everyone has a camera at their fingertips and the ability to share images and video with the world at the touch of a button. While this opens up countless possibilities, it also brings to light a new concern; can we believe these images we are seeing.  It is unwise and potentially dangerous to allow images and early imppressions to make a strong impact on our lives. It is all to easy to manipulate images, not only for advertising or marketing stragegies, but also for more nefarious purposes.

Advertising agencies have used photoshop and other programs to "touch-up" images in order to to hide, or even entirely remove flaws of the models. Sex sells so the advertises should be as attractive and unblemished as possible. This false reality of a perfect body, which is simply unattainalbe for most, has been proven to have a negative impact on the self-esteems of young people, both male and female. When  we are shown from a young age images that have been digitally enhancend, they create in their own minds a standard that they will never be able to live up to. Many studies conducted over the years has demonstrated that this can cause them to value themselves less and lower their self-esteem. 

More recent andvances in technology have led to the creation of "deep fakes." These can be used to show people supposed doing and saying things that they woudl never actually say or do. An example was a video of Mark Zuckerburg stating that FaceBook was created to spy on people. The appearance and voice of the individual in the video had been digitally adjusted to look and sound just like Zuckerburg, but it was not. The implications of this type of technology could be disasterous if people trust these images blindly. They could show our leaders, entertainers, friends and family members, and even ourselves in comprimising and inaccurate positions. When this type of misinformation spreads, no one can be sure what is true or what is false. This technolgy could be used by a political rival to impact an upcoming election, or even just a collegue hoping to discredit the competition for a promotionhal opportunity. 

We live in an age where seeing should no longer automatically equal beleiving. Any image or sound bite can be manipulated and altered. For this reason we must skeptical of the abundance of images and video. Anything of any importance  should be corroborated before being taken as fact. 
