Think of the last comercial that you saw. Remeber the music and the charecters. What were the charecters doing? What catchy music was playing? What joke was there? Now tell me: what was the comercial advertising? Be it the Super Bowl or everyday, adversisors pay a fortune to create something that will stick in your brain. Remember the "I'm on a horse" Old Spice comercial? Ads are fun to watch but the uncounsious effect they have on people can be harmful.
When I was in highschool, there were several things that were cool, one of which was the vsco-girl asthethic. There were brands that would put there logo on stuff that was everywhere. If you were going to get a new backpack, it HAD to be one of the ones that was popular. A new water bottle was a hydroflask (unless you had a knockoff like me). The brands had started advertising in schools without us relising it. If you didn't have the latest things, people would avoid you (teenagers are mean). Even in the classroom, the calculator that you had to have was a TI84. By doing this, people who can't afford, or don't want to buy, the latest and greatest thing, either didn't fit in, or were bullied, both of which could hurt their self esteem. While many highschool students were going through other things, this usually seemed to be the straw that broke the camels back. 
In my early childhood development unit, in psycology class, we dicussed how children cannot tell the differece between their show and a commecial until around 4 or 5 years old. Sugary cereals, toys, and other commercails are intertwined in the show through ad breaks, but a 2 year old cannot tell the difference. I mean, there have even been shows that I've watched this week where the ad break wasn't clear immediently! I even remeber when Webkinz had a show! Throughout shows and movies there is also advertising: what phone does the main charector have? An iPhone. Where do the charectors go before school? Starbucks or Dunkin always. Where do they go after football games? Whatabuger (though this may be based heavily on my highschool). Oh the main character is studying for once (I have yet to see this in any of the teen shows but somehow they all get super high grades and go to Harverd or something while still solving mystories or dating vampires or warewolfs)? They're using all Sharpie pens. There are even entire websites (that I have spent hours on) deticated to buying the outfits that they see on shows.
Commercials are part of day to day, even if we don't realise it. From the new hulu show on a coke bottle (advertising 3 things right there) to walking around with a designer handbag to waiting for the bus, advertisments have seeped into our daily lives, and while many people don't care to have the latest and greatest, the lasting effects of growing up without can hurt in the long run because we don't seem to feel complete without the thing that we keep seeing everywhere from school, to the bus stop, to our soda bottle, to our favorite tv show, to the side of the building that we live in. 
