Materialism, a stigma that people love to claim that they do not covet. I feel as though I, myself am not materialistic in the least. Be that as it is, I will not be judging those who show materialistic tendencies in their lives. I feel as though it should be up to the individual as to what they want in their lives. It is not up to me to throw judgement on anyone in society because they want material things. I do not feel as though modern society should be held in contempt for being materialistic and wanting the best things in life.
Why should be materialistic people in todays world be frowned upon. My view is that they should be able to live their lives and have the goods that they want. There are a lot of people that grew up in poverty. These members .of our society may have went for years without proper nutrition, clothing and shelter. It is not our position as members in todays world to judge and tell them that they lack certain morals and characters simply because they want what they may never have had as a child. True, some of these people may take it to the extrme just because thay have the means to do it as an adult. But honestly, they are not hurting anyone. Let them have their moment in the sun and enjoy their lives.
I realize that there are some people who are just prone to gluttony when it comes to material belongings and hoarding these items. There are parents who buy for themselves as opposed to getting their children the items that they need and want. I am hopeful that the percentage of these members of society is very small, but I do see why some people would critcize them.
To sum up my viewpoint in this debate, I feel as if we need to let it go. most of us, in todays society are guilty of being materialistic in some aspect of our daily lives, I feel as though it is just a part of our human nature. Let us just allow everyone the opportunity to live their life to the best of their potential and stop criticizing those who they feel are materialistic. When it comes down to the nitty gritty, it is simply a matter of opinion, and everyone has one whether it be right or wrong. So I feel that modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic.

