Images and impressions surely do not tell the whole story when it come to reality. "we" as in civilization tend to believe what we see and leave out all other details. Are we in the right to do so? Are our thoughts and assumptions justified  in doing so? Many arguments can be made on the topic. However, I believe that we look at objects and base their qualities and skills on their appearances. For example, when we see celebrities at the "red carpet", we automatically hold them to higher standards and assume they have a lot to offer. Why? Because we see them in designer clothing, expensive jewelry, facy hair styles, etc. The outside picture in my opinion hardly shows the value of something. My companies use this tactic on their products that are cheaply made. They will use a very fancy , vivid, or funny advertisement in order to get the attention of the consumer. In reality, the product is usually cheaply made . Not all instances does this become a fact. Politicians are knows for always being " politically correct" in order to show the public the version of person that wants to be seen. This leads to false presentation and can cause major issues down the road particularly in government roles.  Food is another example of this happening. Cheaper foods usually have a more distinct look or ad. Most cheap foods offer you nothing but added sugars or fats which arent beneficial in any way. This again draws trust issues down the road because it is false advertisemt in a sense of display purposes.  Images and impressions def need a role in society but should be limited . People have a tendency to rely on both of the characteristics in order to determined to products efficiency or persons accountability . This is in my opinion true and needs to be addressed in order to get accurate evaluations of both the product or the person.  So how do we change our ways of stereotypical evaluation of people and things? You start by lowering your assumptions made to the particular subject. Do not assume it is good or bad based on the colors, or presentations that are eye catching. Focus more on the verbal aspects of people and the quality of food. Evaluation is key. Our key senses as human beings need to be used in every aspect in order to determine the role or quality of people and things in our world that we live in. We are too focused on what other people have and do for a living vs what they really have to offer. For example; Most actors present themselves very well and look flashy to the eye and therfore have fans that really look up and adore them almost in an obsessive manner. Then you have people who work minimum jobs who are looked down upon or not favored by " higher status " individuals because of their positions . In reality , those people who works those" lower tier " keep lower class individuals in this world fed for a fairly cheap price . They are the ones who keep society running . Without them, we would not have commerce or business that influence small towns to grow. That is far more important in my opinion that a celebrity who acts for a living . They will look good to the eye for in reality do not really offer much to the world in any way. My point all comes down to one thing, assumption. Do no assume anything that you use one or two senses on to make judgements. Usually there is a deeper story or more to what just catches the eye. Moral of the story, use cautious judgements and all of your senses in order to get a fair and adequent picture of people and foods that you interact with on a daily basis. 
