In the 21st century, people have learned to find a balance between their gut instinct and advertisements. People have different ways that they perceive events; mainly, their personal experience through interpersonal interaction, their perceptions based on corporate advertisements, and perceptions based on government advertisements. Ultimately, while our perceptions may sometimes be compatible with the advertisements we see, the discrepancy between how the world is presented and how it really is can lead to human suffering. 

One positive example of the "first impression" is that it can help save people time; if a person looks disinterested while on a date, picking up on this cue can help both individuals stay away from a second, fruitless date. Admittedly, there are flaws to this approach - for instance, what if two strangers meet, and the first individual immediately believes the second isn't attracted to them, due to the fact that their conversational partner yawned during their conversation. This first impression could easily be false - what if the second individual had just finished up a twelve-hour work shift, and had really been tired, but was really attracted to the person they were speaking with? It is easy to see how these first impressions can be useful, and can save people time and emotional energy. Yet, one has to acknowledge that relying too heavily on first impressions can easily lead to shortening experiences which really ought to have been lengthened. Perhaps those two people really could have gotten married and enjoyed their lives together, and they realize the falseness of their impressions too late? Surely, this could create a lot of distress. 

Sometimes, our preconceived notions contrast with the reality shown to us in advertisements. perhaps a sedentary man, new to exercise, decides to check out a gym membership in his town. Upon speaking with the employee at the front desk, and noticing the pushy sales tactics being used to force him into a contract, the man uses his gut instinct and decides not to sign. Picking up on verbal cues and not looking too far into things, the man saves himself from losing his hard-earned money. Perhaps he had looked too far into things, had paid attention to the flashy advertisements promoting a "cancel whenever" policy, he may have excused too much, pushed past his intuition, and gotten into trouble. Again, maybe he could have been wrong - the advertisements could have been true, and the smiling salesperson in the gym ads could have been a legitimate portrayal. Yet, it is clear that in situations like these, following one's "gut" can be beneficial, especially when one finds that lived experience and advertisements contradict one another. 

Sometimes advertisements can simply be negative - public safety ads of another time may have pushed harmful misconceptions about marginalized groups. Perhaps a popular public safety PSA is plastered everywhere, featuring a man of a particular ethnicity committing a crime, and warning against this. It is easy to see how a false stereotype may be created, which may shadow people of that particular ethnicity for a long time, and which may have real physical, mental, and societal consequences. This could also affect how people behave interpersonally, all because of an irresponsible advertisement. 

While it is hard to argue that all advertisements are malicious, it is a safe bet to trust one's own lived experience. The differences between reality and advertised realities can often be vast, and it is best to be cautious to prevent harm to oneself and others.
