I am delighted to express my opinions about competition vs. cooperation as a way to achieve success.

I am happy to acknowledge that I am a person who values cooperation over competition.  While our world needs some of each, there seems to be too much emphasis on competition.  As an example, the proliferation of nuclear weapons, many times more than needed to destroy civilization, has traditionally been a matter of competition between the United States and Russia, and gradually indicating many smaller, less wealthy nations.  Though there has been perhaps some moderation in the competitive nature of the race to achieve superiority between the U.S. and Russia, the fact remains that the world is constantly on the brink of destruction via a false alarm or accidental firing of one or more nuclear weapons. Though we tend to forget about it in our daily lives, we are in constant 24/7/365 danger of being annialated.  What an astoundingly horrible to leave as a legacy to coming generations.  When there were fewer nuclear weapons, or even none, we were safer.  If there had been cooperation rather than competition through the years, the entire future of current and future generations would have been safer and more peaceful.  It is too late to turn back the clock to the very early days of the nuclear arms race, which could have been set on a course of cooperation and moderation, rather than competitive accumulation. Competition in today's world leads to cheating, embezzling, theft, lies and efforts to do anything to win over one's competitors. The end result is the inevitable collapse of societies.

For many people, our world is all about competition and the need to win over others. Greed is one motivation for that and so are pride, ego, tradition and a distorted view of success as reflected by accumulation of property and physical objects. Those traits are embodied by our former President T., to whom winning at all costs, including corruption, lying and illegalities, have helped bring our democracy to a dangerous situation.  

The world would be a safer, more stable and secure place if at multiple times in history nations and sociaties could have chosen cooperation over competition.  Wars would have been avoided along with deaths of ordinary people.  Cooperations would have resulted in compromise and consideration, both required for the continued existence of civilization. 

For me, at age 76, fearing for the continuation of my country after I am gone, competition has created the most perilous circumstances of my lifetime.  There is a better way - cooperation over competition. Leave competition to the Olympics.
