Happiness is the core feeling most humans strive to attain, yet many find it elusive and difficult to achieve. A fundamental question over the past few centuries has many people theorizing what actions or thoughts one must take to achieve happiness. And not only achieve happiness but maintain it. Many a scholar have speculated that the best way to achieve happiness for oneself is to try and make others happy.  Happiness of others being the leading way to achieve one's own happiness can be seen in parenting and volunteering.

To make others happy in turn can bring joy for oneself, and what better example of this than parenthood.  A parent's primary goal after health and safety is that their offspring experience as much happiness as possible.  The joy on your little one's face during new experiences, receiving treats, and receiving love and affection make the high amount of effort and time worth it to parents.  Is there any better explanation for why parents feel exhausted, spend any available money on their children, and go to extreme lengths to give their child a happy moment and life?  There is an underlying desire from parents to make their children happy and in turn that feeds their own happiness and the cyclical nature repeats. Wherein a parent does more to make their children happy, and that makes the parent happy, so then they perpetuate this cycle and feedback loop.

Another example of shared happiness from trying to help others can be seen from volunteering. Often the only reward for the time, money, and effort given is the rewarding sensation of happiness one gets from helping others.  How else can we explain as a society why so many enjoy and happily volunteer with what they can? There is no monetary reward as most receive from their employment, there are rarely any accolades or recognition. Thus the best explanation that can be given is there must be an emotional or rewarding brain stimulation when trying to make others happy. Laughter is contagious, and what better way to inject joy in one's life than to giggle along with a child, erasing any bad emotions from the day, whilst reveling in the pure joy of the tiny squeals from the people you love the most.

Many may argue that there are other ways to achieve happiness such as focusing on personal endeavors or dreams. However, even in the case where something may be achieved that brings some joy, that joy may be overshadowed if a person has no one to celebrate it with. This underpins a pivotal point about happiness, it is something best shared and experienced with others. Humans are social animals, we rely on community, and when left in isolation we suffer. For example someone may have a dream of reading all the best literature in the world. Take a prisoner in solitary confinement, who has access to any book imaginable. They may finish 100 books and achieve a goal, but that is overshadowed and a hollow victory if done alone and with no one to communicate with. Similarly some may argue money brings happiness, but many a wealthy person will tell you that all the money in the world can not cure loneliness. At the root loneliness is the absence of having others around you, again highlighting that there is a social aspect to deriving happiness.

Therefore happiness can not be experienced in a bubble of isolation.  At it's core there is a social aspect to achieving it, and if a group experiences happiness it invites ourselves the freedom to also revel in joy. A person can achieve a degree or various accomplishments alone but the level of happiness experienced for that is diminished in contrast to happiness experienced with others.  One only needs to look to the ever present examples of parenting and volunteering and the measured happiness levels of those who participate. Although the workload may be high, and the reward is non-monetary, many continue these efforts having more children and volunteering more, because of the happiness they'll experience. Thus to focus on personal goals over the happiness of other is a fruitless effort if one is to achieve the maximum happiness themselves.
