People are driven to success in vairety of ways. Some people find that they need to be competive with others in their professional fields and want to rise to the top of their professions. This is a good motivator for some to complete their work and finish tasks. Others thrive on the support of others and can be more productive when they work in teams. While a healthy balance of both is natural, progress is best made when cooperation is a key part of the work process. 

While competition does help some indiviudals become task oriented, an extreme rivalry can often take over someone's focus and prevent them from making adequate progress. For example, if a rivalry consumes someone's being, they may experience a high level of anxiety that affects their performance. If they are worried about how they fare against their rival instead of simply doing their best, their insecurties about their own progress might affect their product. For example, classical music is a vey competive field. Jobs are extremely limited and everyone who applies, or rather audtions, for these jobs are extremely educated and extremely talented. While it is imperative to be the best in these situations to make it to the end of an audition process, sometimes highly qualified applicants can't make it past the introductory stages of the audtion process because they are comparing themselves to every single person in the room. This performance anxiety is debiliating for some and significantly affects their performance. 

Classical musicians who feel supported and valued by their colleagues and "competiton" often have less performacne anxiety and typically advance further in the audition process, even if they do not make it to the final round. Since music is such a subjective field, it is important to discuss ideas and practices with other indiviudals so each individual's progress and product will have as much feedback as possible. This is especially valauble in a field where everyone has a high degree of experience, talent, and knowledge to offer. Sharing ideas and resources often helps classical musicians find the best path forward that helps them represent their talents in a strong way. 

While sharing ideas with professional colleagues in classical music helps individuals become their most polished self, it also proves successful in other fields. For example, a group of individuals working on a how to best use company expenses will each bring different ideas and view points to help expose what is valued and truly important in a company. This will help employees feel their needs are seen in a company, thus leading to improved worker retention and better employee output. If a group of employees needed to work together to finish a task, employees struggling with an aspect of their project might find support in working with others or find a point a view that hasn't been considered before. If someone feels absolutely paralyzed by a project, another teammate might be able to help the struggling individual work through their insecurites and find a clear path forward. 

In short, while healthy rivalries will push individuals to complete work and push them to do their best, cooperation is best for helping everyone reach success. Cooperation helps everyone feel that their ideas are valued and supported. Any individual who feels valued and supported will feel more successful, even in areas that they are struggling with. The sense of success will help them to find more long term success moving forward.
