Materialism is the true double edged sword of society. It is both a blessing and a curse. It helps individuals find fulfillment but can also lead to an individual's downfall. So ultimately the question is not should modern society be criticized for being materialistic, rather should modern society be criticized for placing too much emphasis on materialism.

Everyone enjoys stuff, especially receiving it. This is evident through our collective birthday and holiday traditions. In many middle to upper class families, the ultimate goal of the parents is to be able to provide the best experience for their children, including fun activities (which require things to participate in, ie musical instruments or sports equipment), and a nice house. Parents then often hope that when their children grow up they are able to provide the same things for their future children. Modern society functions on this model. If people don't buy stuff and continue to plan to buy stuff, many people would no longer have a job, which would eventually lead to the collapse of civilization as we know it. Ultimately there is nothing inherently wrong with wanting things and enjoying purchasing and receiving things. Where society falls into a trap is not practicing moderation. Often called the "keeping up with the Joneses" phenomenon, some individuals in society focus too much on having the latest and best things, often to the detriment of their finances or even their families. When stuff becomes more important than spending time with those around you and being kind to those less fortunate than you, life will begin to have less and less meaning. If your entire self worth is wrapped up in having the newest, coolest, most expensive thing, you will quickly find that you have lost the ability to find fulfillment. In order to be truly fulfilled, humans require more than just physical fulfillment; they need spiritual and emotional fulfillment as well and those cannot be attained through the purchase of stuff.

Another pitfall of materialism is living beyond your means. Most Americans have moderate to significant debt, often from credit cards. If you do not have a healthy approach to your finances, you are more likely to be stressed and overwhelmed. No amount of stuff can fix that. In fact, many would argue the solution for that problem is getting rid of stuff. However obviously there are situations where stuff is not the cause of debt and in those cases the individuals involved should not be judged harshly.

Materialism is not society's enemy. Like with anything, it can be a good thing but can also lead to issues when not practiced in moderation. Instead of criticizing society for being materialistic, we should focus on helping people find fulfillment in all areas of their lives.
