To me as a 50 year old male, success is achieved more by cooperation as a group of people helping one another than being competitive.

In my younger years, I used to strive to be more successful by competing for things.  Jobs, sports, attention, everything in life really.  Life was all about competition because I always felt like I had something to prove to someone, especially family and friends.  As I grow older, now it's much less a competitition and more of a co-operative deal.  I like the comerderie of folks getting together to begin anything with one purpose and that is to complete something.  I am a member of Alcoholics Anonymous and have given up the I have to win everything attitude and realize that we are all here on earth to achieve one purposeful thing, and that is to be happy.

There have been many times in my life where I thought I could do everything on my own.  I had been burned by so many people that the trust was not there and that I thought everyone had their own agenda and that was to ruin me.  I was under the assumption that I was built to do everything on my own without the help and/or cooperation from others.  In my 40's, it really dawned on me that I was living in a fantasy world if I thought I could do everything on my own.  To achieve anything in life, I didn't accept the help of others and looked much too deeply into myself for answers and guidance.  We are taught at a young age that we are to build our empires by ourselves and not seek the help from others.

Happiness cannot be achieved alone.  We all strive for happiness and unless you are a gluton for punishment, isolation and singularly competition is in the cards for you.  I have, over the years, achieved lots of things and have lived many lives.  From homelessness to living in a McMansion, life has thrown lots of curveballs at me.  But I can honestly say, to reach the level of happiness that I have in my life right now, I could not have done it alone and could not have achieved my successes without the cooperation of others and without the help of others.  I am living proof that you will always win through cooperation and lose by competition.
