In society, we all strive to be our own independent thinkers. In society, we often have a deep desire to share our ideas, give input, recieve feedback, and grow on an individual basis. Because every individual has their own concept on what makes a person- themselves- successful, this concept is often achieved differently, depending on the personality and sentiment of the individual. Since success in the workplace is often more attainable with the help of others, this is often the route people take in order to see true results. In some cases, however, people decide to base their interactions with others in a more hostile way, by competition rather than cooperation. While this may prove successful in some cases, it often leads to more problems than rewards. 
There are numerous factors which cause someone to stray away from competition, as well as numerous effects that stem from this rather toxic form of societal interactions. One of the many countless possibilities that result in someone steering towards the behaviour of cooperation is that they simply do not like the others that they are partnered with. Perhaps a coworker has a poor attitude and does not want to really cooperate with the other person. Becuase of this, they may not want to be friendly towards the subject, and instead spend their time bashing the other's intellect, ideas, or personality. As a result, they refuse to work with them, and might start unauthorised experiments or research separately in an attempt to one-up the other person. Another possibility is that they only contribute the minimum, and refuse to do more, so even if they are all working in the same group, they might not actually do too much. Instead, all indivduals internally compete to do more (or less) work than the other members. There are many other causes that can contribute to a feeling or effect of competition, and with all of these in mind, there are a lot of issues that this can cause.
Since individuals and groups are more focused on outdoing others, this results in decreased productivity. While it may be true that some people just won't get along, it is always possible to accept those with a different approach on life and a compromise should be obtainiable in some manner. Bitter rivalry between parties can result in unproductive mettings, lack of connections, and can ruin reputations and the image of various organizations. Not to mention, if people are working on human research, any kind of hostility can bring with it the risk of lawsuits or confidentiality breaches. If someone is too hostile and competitve, they may leak trade secrets crucial to the other individuals jobs, or non-disclosure agreements may be breached, rsulting in futher conflicts with other top leaders in a company or organization. 
Because of these things and more, it is crucial to have positive relations with others in a working group. If everyone is on equal terms, there is a better understanding of the group's research and tem vision. With no comflicts or competition, others can benefit and there can be a net positive for all involved, with the possibility of a good learning experience. Obviously, there will still be class differences in a team, but with a team that works together, everyone can benefit from teamwork and cooperation, bringing with it a feeling of accomplishment and job satisfaction.
