People are more likely to be happy if they focus on achieving their personal goals through-out their lifetime rather than focusing on other people's happiness. When people focus on themselves and their own goals, they are more likely to feel like a success in life and achieve outcomes that make them happy. Those who focus on the happiness of others may feel somewhat happy, but the most happiness is obtained by the other person.
One who focuses on others' happiness, while not fulfilling their own desires, are destined to fall short of their own goals because they sabotage themselves by trying to make others happy. Expending energy and resources to please others means you have less resources to use in pursuit of your own goals and hinders the search for a fulfilling life for yourself. Spending resources for your own goals inevitably leads to happiness because you are doing things that bring enjoyment in some way.
By focusing on one's own goals, a person is more likely to take advantage of and seize oppportunities to improve their life and circumstances. This will lead to more confidence and happiness because the person will feel more fulfilled and in control of their life. Someone who is oriented toward pleasing others is more likely to do things they don't want to or things which are detrimental for themselves. As an extreme example, person focused on others' happiness may give away the last of their money to a stranger as a gift. While this might make the receiver feel better for awhile, the giver has less resources and is likely to later regret their decision when they find something they would have preferred to have done with the money. If they had kept the money, they would be able to use it toward obtaining one of their own goals and leading a more successful and rewarding life.
Some may say that focusing on others and their needs leads to happiness, but I disagree. Most humans look out for themselves and their families first, as well. This means that a person who focuses on others' happiness is more likely to be taken advantage of and possibly run out of resources for themselves. This would lead to unhappiness, rather than happiness. It is only by focusing on oneself and one's own goals that he or she can truly become happy. 
