 Images can be very decieving. In modern day society we are constantly bombarded with advertisements. They are every where we look from the tv to the grocery store. The reality is that most advertisements dont actually show case the reality of the product. Take food comercials for example shaving cream is used in place of whipped cream and motor oil in place of syrup. The reality is you cant trust the images and impressions that are all around us.

Advertising and doctored images suround us on a daily bases. I believe that this causes us to have an altered since of reality. Super models bodys are slimmed down and photoshopped. Plus size clothing brands use skinny girls in fat suits and heavy photoshopping to show a body that isnt achieveable yet all our young girls look at this as how they should look. The food you make at home will never look the same as the commercial shows it to look. Making you want to keep buy their product in the hopes that it will look like the picture they put on the box. Advertising and everyday pictures and impressions are used to make everything look so cookie cutter perfect that we forget that everything is not supposed to look the same. That everything is supposed to be unique if not we would live in a very boring reality.

While some people would argue that the advertisements and pictures are not supposed to be used as a reality. That they are just supposed to showcase what the product could look like. However when all you see around you are doctored images how are you supposed to know what reality is? How are you supposed to differentiate between the real and the fake? The first impression we get of an image, product, or person normally has some kind of filter on it. That doesnt create a safe reality. We have little girls growing up and having eating disorders and grown men having mental health breaks at work because they cant produce the profection that they see everyday all around us. Also several other countries out side of the united states of america have outlawed untruthful advertisements. They believe it causes more harm than good so why are we still allowing untruthful advertisements. 

In conclusion i feel like the way images and advertisements basically everything around us  is being procieved around us could be very determental to a persons mental health and well beings. We are killing ourselves to produce perfection. When the ideal we find perfect is completely made up. It is insane to allow the media and images etc to have such a hold on us when they have completely made us what reality is. Our preception of reality is not what is actually reality.  I seriously fear that if we continue to keep allowing our preception of reality to continue the way it has that eventually we will have an even higher issue with mental health. I also believe that us as individuals should stand up and put a stop to it as many other countries around the world have. 
