Materialism, while criticized by many, is also a focal point in nearly everyone's lives. What can I buy? How much can I buy? When can I buy something next? These are all questions that run through our heads as we consider the next purchase. Even those that attempt to stray from a materialistic lifestyle are often called back to it on a daily basis.

Society as a whole should not be hated due to its generally materialisitic outlook; instead, criticism should be reserved for those who engage in extravagent spending and reckless spending behaviors that may harm the environment.

Materialism can be viewed with a more positive lens for several reasons. First, materialism can help stimulate the economy. When buying increases, businesses are able to hire more people, and subsequently more people can be employed, lowering unemployment rates. Secondly, materialism can help people engage in hobbies and activities, which can help improve mental health. While often not necessary to make large purchases, even small ones that contribute to a hobby can bring happiness to individuals. 

While many may argue that materialistic individuals are vain, "showy", or self-involved, these opinions are often unfounded. A full understanding of others' financial resources is almost always limited, which means we only have a small source of information with which to "judge" others for spending. Furthermore, acquiring possessions may be a more long-term strategy for financial freedom in the future. Without knowing one's intentions behind spending, it is not our place to criticize and force our own views on others' choices.

Thus, while the trend has been to look down upon on those who engage in a materialistic lifestyle, it's important to consider the benefits of engaging in materialism. Additionally, we are limited in our knowledge as to why someone may spend money -- perhaps it improves mental health, brings happiness, or unites families together in various activities. Overall, it should not be said that being materialistic is a universally negative trait to have. Instead, viewing materialism as a way in which society can stimulate the economy, through producing new and exciting products that may help simplify our lives, is a more appropriate lens with which to view it. 
