Hapiness can be characterized by the immense joy or contenment one feels as a reaction to some series of events. These events could be personal achievements, such as a promotion or a new job, or it could be someone else's achievements; say your friend just got a new car. Nevertheless where it comes from, happiness is something that we humans strive for. But what source of happiness is sweeter? Is it the hapiness of others or the happiness that derives from our own goals? I would like to argue that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals and achievements due to the fact that focusing on others' hapiness could result in people losing themselves and losing sight of their own personal goals. 

When one person aims to derive their own happiness from the happiness of others, they are at risk of falling pray to comparison. Someone once said that "comparison is the theif of joy", thus trying to focus on other people's happines could easily rob someone of their own. I have been a victim of this many times, as I will scroll through instagram to see the achievements of my friends. Rather than getting the exected joy from seeing others strive, I sometimes begin to compare myself to these people and wonder why I am not achieving the same things. This bring thoughts of inadequacy, when the intention was to bring joy. On the flip side, if I were to focus on my own persoal goals, I would have my own achievements, and not be left to wonder why I am not achieving the same as those  on social media.

Some might argue that seeing other people happy makes them happy, and to an extent that may be true, but we cannot deny that everyone experriences jealousy. Jealousy is a part of the human condition. While seeing other people being happy, someone is bound to feel a bit jealous. But if this person was actually focused on their own personal goals, they would have a personal fulfillment that could dampen the green-eyed monster.

Additionally, people who focus on the happiness of other, often fall into the role of being a people pleaser. Although this is nice for the majority of the group, this role often leaves the people pleaser in a position that they may not want to be in. They may go along with what the majority wants, only to have their wants neglected. This could leave the person who hoped to get happiness through the happiness of others starving due to their own neglect.

Although many people derive their sense of happiness from the improvement of humanity, nothing is sweeter than getting hapiness from one's self. When one seeks hapiness through the achievements of their personal goals, not only do they experience the rewards that comes with said personal goal, they are also able to brag about it (and who doesnt like bragging?). 
