Images and impressions have too much effect on people. This is undeniable, in today's society. Every ad you see, every politician you hear, and every product you encounter are not quite what they seem. I'd like to take a few minutes to express my feelings about the topic, and provide a few examples.

Have you ever seen a commercial for a product that seemed to good to be true? It's inevitable. You see the new Smokehouse BBQ Bacon Cheddar Mesquite Southwest MegaBurger advertisement for the fast food restaurant down the street and think, "I want that in my mouth right now. I don't even know if I can fit my mouth around it. I mean, look at that thing. What a monster!". So, you load up the kids and drive there, your mouth watering with the excitement of sinking your teeth into that mammoth monument to "meat"-eaters everywhere. As you lead your young kids across the parking lot to the entrance, you see it again in a printed ad on the window. It looks just like you remembered it. It's almost threatening in size. The meat and cheese glisten in an almost unnatural way. You suspend your disbelief in the hopes that, when you upwrap that masterpiece of carnivorous achievement, it will somehow look just like the picture, and your jaw will unhinge as you take that first, magnificent bite. And then the next, and the next, until you're so utterly full that you can't take another bite. You're only a little over halfway finished with it, too. But you're not going to wrap it up and take less than half of a burger home. So, you power through. You could burst. You unbuckle your belt, as the meat-sweats set in. It's going to be a long, uncomfortable afternoon. "Totally worth it," you mutter, laboriously, as the sheer heft of the whole behemoth now resides in your gutty-works, pressing against your lungs and the rest of your vital organs.

But, as we all know, things are never as they seem, and this was just a fever dream. That burger was just as disappointing as the last fast food burger you had. It looked like whoever put it together was just playing a game of horseshoes, tossing the individual elements of the burger in the general vacinity of the paper wrapper before haphazardly plopping a room temperature dollup of cheddar cheese product out of a caulk gun right on top, karate chopping a bun onto the top of that, and crumpling the wrapper around it with less care than Don Draper had for Michael Ginsberg in that infamouse elevator scene on Mad Men.

The same goes for politicians. They put on a show for months leading up to an election, but as soon as they're in office, they don't do anything they said they would. In fact, they do the opposite. Four years later, once they've successfully brought the whole country to an all-new low, they do the same thing again. Sometimes, they even get elected again.

So, do images and impressions have too much effect on people? Absolutely. Advertisers and politicians know that, and they use it to their advantage. We're all guilty, too. We put on a happy face and act like everything is perfect at family gatherings, but two minutes earlier, as we were pulling into the driveway of our parents' home for Christmas dinner, we were actively shouting profanities at our 3-year-old as he pulled out the hair of our 8-month-old. The trick is to suspend your belief. Things rarely turn out as positive as we hope. So, lower those expectations, folks. It's not worth the disappointment. Expect the worst, and you'll never be let down.
