Both cooperation and competition are important in many aspects of life. They help buisnesses grow, communities come together, and can create a very healthy enviornment to learn and acomplish new tasks. There are certain aspects that I believe puts cooperation ahead over competetion to create produce the most significant and long lasting accomplishments.
Cooperation brings a group of people together in a way that uses the strongest points of an individual and can accomplish tasks at a higher and more sucessful way. When you work as a team, it gets rid of areas that one might stuggle in. If an individual is smart but cannot put his or her thoughts onto paper, maybe someone else in the group can help with that task, while another person can be doing the research. They come together at the end and put all their skills together. This forms a stronger bond within the community and can lead to a healthy work envionment that would not be seen if everyone was competing against eachother. No one person is perfect, so by bring several people together it can fill in some of the gaps in problems that a individual by themseleves could not solve.
One may argue that competition can be better because it causes an indiviudual to put more effort into an assingment to make sure that they are ahead of the others in their grouping. They may also state that cooperation in a group is forced and only a set amount of people do the work leaving the others to get credit when they did nothing at all. While this may be true in some casses, I believe that this method can create a harmful work enviornment. There are some events where competition is good such as sporting events and a task that may need to be looked into over a long period of time, but for most work releated tasks it is better to come together as a group.
Both competetion and cooperation are necessary to keep a buisness or event operating at its full potential. The intense rivalry of competions can be a drive in itself to overcome eachothers failures. I however, believe the cooperation is the key to over all sucess. There can still be a competetive feel in cooperation but working together as a group will be far more effective in providing significant accomplishments. Humans are social creatures and meant to work together. I personally would rather work with a group of individuals fighting for the same cause than try to beat the to obtain a better position.
