As a society, we like to belive that we are more than the belonging we posses. We are multifasceted indviduals who cannot be boxed into a specific category. However, part of existing include accumulating things that are important in our lives. Some of these things are important in our daily life. They are things that make life easier. Things that bring us joy. As a modern society, we should not be criticized for being materialistic without understanding how these items can be helpful in our daily lives. 

When I think of being materialistic, I take a step back and need to what that means to me. In my eyes it's the things that bring me joy, the things that help me in my daily life. I think of the items in my kitchen. I have collected many tools in my kitchen that would seem to others as uneccessary materialistic possestions. In reality, I've collected these tools because they make my cooking experience a lot easier. I enjoy cooking, but that is because I have found tools that make it an enjoyable process. I like to work smarter, not harder. 

The joy that the materialistic possesions brings to be may not be understood by someone who does not value the things in the way I do. I should not feel obligated to measure my happiness based on someone else's values. I don't impose myself on other people in that way. As humans we seek the feeling of happiness. This form of happiess can come in different ways. To some people, an item that was gifted by a loved one can unlock a number of memories and feelings of happiness; long after that person has passed. To judge someone without understanding what meaning is tied to their possesions is narrowsighted. 

I belive that we should not be criticized for being materialistic. We find joy and comfort in the items we have collected in our journey of life. These items can make our lives easier. These items can hold memories of loved ones that are no longer with us. Humans are collectors by nature. We need items that will make our lives easier and bring joy to them. As long as the items that we are collecting bring meaning to our life, I do not see a problem with being materialistic in this sense. I belive that a lot of the criticizem that is sparked usually comes from a place of envy. We envy those that we criticize because deep down inside, we wish we could have what they have. 
