There are many opinions, and much research, about how people achieve happiness. Some people believe happiness is the result of achieving ones career and life goals or achieving important life milestones. Other people believe happiness comes from helping someone other than ourselves. I believe happiness must first start within ourselves, our own lives, and our own support systems. This is not to say that helping others doesn't lead to happiness, it simply means that happiness to me is taking care of myself first so that I can also find happiness taking care of others. 

I grew up in a small town as a Jewish LGBTQ person where there were few other Jewish people and even fewer openly LGBTQ people. This experience was very traumatizing and I propelled that traumatic injury into studying social justice in college. I also began volunteering for an LGBTQ organization. I became hooked on social justice and helping others. I worked at an organization for 10 years, 6 of which I served as executive director.  I made a huge impact by helping local laws to get passed, ensuring all-gender restrooms in the new city hall, and helping thousands of people live better lives so that they could be happier. I turned an organization around from being in the red to being one of the largest of its kind in the United States. I dedicated my life to this work, making less than market rate, working 60 hour weeks, working almost every weekend, serving on multiple nonprofit and business boards of directors, and constantly feeling like I had the weight of the world on my shoulders. 

Unfortunately, I became so wrapped up in helping others I stopped helping myself. I used my work helping others to avoid addressing mental health issues, neglected my friendships, and had a very strained relationship with my friends and family. Eventually, because I was so focused on other people happiness, and not my own, my professional life imploded and I was fired very publicly. 

Getting fired publicly, and being accused of awful things in the media, was even more traumatic than growing up in a small town. The organization I worked for quickly hired a new executive director that made 150% of my salary. They defamed me through media statements, people attacked me constantly on social media, and I was afraid to leave my house. However, because my mental health was rapdily collapsing under the weight of a public shaming, I was forced to immediately begin addressing my mental health. I was very quickly diagnosed with depression, anxiety, and PTSD. My friends and family were so supportive they all became one pillar towards my healing. I was completely burned out on helping others through my social justice work, and instead began to exclusively focus on helping myself. Eventually, when I started to feel a little stronger, I started helping my friends and family too. 

I'm much more protective of my privacy and safety than I was before I lost my job. The PTSD nightmares also still occur and sometimes waking up from one impacts me for the rest of the day. I had never had dreams as vivid as I started having after I lost my job. I'm also much closer to my friends and parents now. While I don't go out of my way to help people I don't know anymore, I manifest a lot of joy by being there emotionally and when I assist my friends and family with something they need. I feel like I'm more focused on what's actually the most important to me in my life. As a result, I'm happier than I've probably ever been. 

I had to focus on myself, and find my own happiness, before I could begin to find happiness in helping others again. I also learned how to better express boundaries so that I was no longer resentful when people asked me for help. I stopped talking to and putting energy into people who were simply never going to support me like I needed. Since I lost my job, my primary focus is both on my own happiness and on the happiness of the people I am closest to in my life. In working on my own happiness, I also know that it's okay to say "no" when something is too much for me to handle timewise and/or emotionally. 

Perhaps there are some people who exclusively find happiness in helping others. I envy those people and the mental clarity and mental strength they must have for this to be their primary source of joy. I now know I used helping others find happiness as a distraction from finding my own. I believe there are people like this and that the path to true happiness can take any number of forms. 

What I'm trying to say is that I don't think it's an either/or when it comes to finding happiness. We can find happiness by focusing on ourselves and others at the same time. However, it's incredibly important to remember that we need to take care of ourselves before we help others.

I'm slowly venturing back into the social justice world as a consultant. I don't lose myself in it anymore and I'm much happier as a result. To find my happiness, I had to find me first. 
