When it comes to happiness I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own happiness. I think that at their core people are mostly selfish and we need to focus on ourselves to unlock happiness. Maslow's Hierarchy of Need s shows a strong hierarchy that relates to the self. I think if we work on those things along with our personal goals and dreams we can achieve happiness.
     To back this up I have an example from my own life. I find myself more happy when I'm able to focus on myself and achieve my own goals. I get stressed focusing on other people and I find myself distracted and even sad or frustrated.
I know that a lot of people think that focusing on others by donating to charity and volunteering makes them feel happy. I know that there is a lot of evidence for this. But I think that while this is true for some people I think that most people feel more happy when focusing on their own goals and dreams which will then provide them with happiness.
     Some goals people may choose to focus on include things like their health, safety and financial wellbeing. It has been shown that when people feel healthy, safe and also financially healthy they feel a lot happier. In countries where all of that is good people are a lot healthier, like in places like Finland, sweden and Denmark. I think that if you go ahead and focus on your own goals you will be a lot happier. This is not to say that volunteering or spending time on other's is not worth it. It totally is, it just isn't going to make you as happy as focusing on your life and getting ahead.  If you get ahead and feel happier then you will be more equiped to help other people who need help. it will put you in a better position to donate time, help and also energy to other people in need. If you are already feeling good you can help people and humanity much better. 
    Coming back to the idea of focusing on your own goals, it doesn't have to be just the things I mentioned previously. It could be a smaller goal like learning to play an instrument, or starting to garden, or finally reading a certain movie or watch a specific tv show. Focusing on  smaller goals and dreams and parceling them out into chunks of things that you can achieve can totally provide people with happiness. These may not be big major dreams but they are smaller dreams that may seem more achievable and provide a good dose of happiness while working on them. 
Again, to sum up: I beleive that working on your goals can provide much more happiness than focusing on other things like other people's happiness. Sometimes it does play well to be selfish and focus on yourself and not others. It will provide you with more happiness in the long run and make it easier and better for you to help other people and humanity in the long run. 
