    People often love or hate competition in general. some people though, have what I call a love/hate relationship with competition though. That would be me I would say. My dilema with it is simply loosing, I feel I have got to win to actually get any enjoyment from competition. If I loos I guess I feel like I have gained nothing. On the other hand there is cooperation, which I can say most people like more then competion. That being said, the difference between the two is up for debate. I guess that it all boils down to the type of person you are one the inside. I do not believe that it has anythign to do with who we are on the outside, phyically or otherwise. This is a choice we are allowed to have, and everyone is different.
    So do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competion? This is a difficult question to answer, so I will try my very best. I beleive that cooperation is indeed for people of teamwork. Cooperation is fun in many ways, but come just perfer to work alone. I beleive those people are more into competition overall. This is not to say you cannot do both, because you most certainly can. Afterall, it is one hundred percent your very own choice. I am a very competative person, who loves to win at all cost. If I was playuing a ghame of basketball for instance, I would not be satisfied until I won the game. So that is me though, others might consider this same example, and think cooperation is more theier speed when playing the game for fun. Don't get me wrong, I have fun playing basketball I just perfer to have fun and win as well. Either way the way someone will achieve success is up to them in general. I will say that, and I think if you want BIG achievement then I think you will be more successful in cooperation since you will have more minds involved. So while competition is without a doubt more fun, cooperation is the one that success will most likely actually come from if you ask me.
    With all that being said I have reached my end conclusion. To me, and this is merily my own opinion. I think that both competition and cooperation are your best bet in success. If you work with other in cooperation, and also againt other in competition, then I believe the successful outcome can be huge. You can of course achieve success any way you feel the most comfortable with obviously. So I choose neither, and I instead by my own opinion believe people will achieve more success by cooperation and competition together in the sence as I just explained above. Other people may have their own opinion on this, and that is fine by me. Ss compete, cooperate, and ultimatley you will achieve whatever you set out to do. Just do it your way.


