Stuff. We all have it and many of us crave more of it. We're constantly appealed to in every conceivable avenue by retailers. Social media, television, radio, print journalism - there are ads everywhere, all expertly crafted to appeal to the viewer's sensibilities. Is it working? If you step back and take a look at modern society, I would say yes... and that it is a bad thing.

Sure, there are arguments FOR materialism. A very common one is that it's "good for the economy", especially after the last several years of the Coronavirus pandemic, where resources were scarcer than usual for most of us. We've been encouraged to get back out there and spend, spend, spend. To boost the economy. But if you're spending money just to spend it, without need or intention, is that really benefiting you OR the retailer? I would argue that an individual who purchases an item and then regrets it will be less likely to be a repeat customer in the future, thus hurting a retailer's future income. Not to mention that people who regret a purchase are more likely to return the item(s), resulting in refunds, thus canceling out any potential economic boost.

It is also not an uncommon stance to view material goods as a quick fix to boost one's happiness. However, compulsive shopping is just like any other vice. Akin to using alcohol, drugs, gambling, etc., indulging materialistic wants (not NEEDS, wants) can only provide temporary relief. It is a shallow action and provides no long-lasting positive effect for the consumer. An individual would be better suited to address the issue of why they feel the need to shop to feel happy in the first place. What are the gaps in their life that they are trying to fill with material goods? Solving that problem would be more helpful for an individual in the long run.

There is also the argument that having more resources and objects can somehow make a person "superior" to others, which is just not true. Having "nicer" clothing, automobiles, houses, and such does not make one person better or important than another. People who do not have the ability to indulge in materialism are just as worthy of respect as those who are supposedly "higher up the food chain", for lack of a better term.

Materialism, just like any other aspect of society, should be fair game for criticism. While there are several arguments that support why modern day society's materialism IS beneficial, I believe that the negative aspects of materialism outweigh the potential positive ones. So yes, I do believe that society should be criticized for being too materialistic.
