Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?  Absolutely, in a lot of situations!  Haven't you noticed just how imporant capturing that perfect selfie is rather than focusing on whatever your're actually posting for.  The real reason behind each post gets lost.  Each message or point is missed a lot of times.

You have heard of influncers and are well aware of what they are amd ehat they do, correct?  A lot of their posts are great examples or their actual message getting missed.  I've heard of several stories about influencers being hurt just trying to get a perfect selfie to post.  They finally get the shot they're happy with and it has nothing to do with what they're promoting and endorsing.  Their followers just see their selfie and like it and a lot of times the real message gets overlooked. 

Over editing and over hyping products is an issue as well.  The bright colors and celebrity persona pulls you in.  You see these products that are bright and colorful and then you see the celebrities wearing their products and you want what they're selling!  Nevermind the professional photos or the airbrushed to perfection make-up.  You can't help but be at least a little disappointed when you get your package and it's not quite like you expected.  

Not every influencer or situation is the same though.  You do have people who use their influencer/celebrity platform for their exact purpose.  They post information relating directly to their product or topic.  They don't feel the need to post a perfctly edited selfie to make their point or sell their products.  

Yes, images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.  I think they have the potentioal to have a positive effect but i feel like for the most part thats not the case.  Instagram is a perfect example.  Teens and tweens are still so impressionable.  Seeing their favorite celebrities and icons looking absolutely stunning in every picture puts that pressure on them.  They feel like they have to look a certain way or dress a certain way.  They begin to question amd dount theirselves because they don't look like they stepped out of a magazine or off of the runway in every picture.  

There are so many things that go into each post in so many different aspects.  That need for perfection is there.  The pressure to look a certain way is there and constantly shoved in your face.  
