As a wise stranger once said, "Appearances are everything." While "everything" is perhaps a bit of hyperbole, it is undeniable that the images and impressions that things project are integral to the ways that people perceive them. Judging based on appearances is something that is hardwired into the human psyche, an instinct so prevalent and so subtle that many of us may not even realize the extent to which we rely on images and impressions to form our opinions of the world. However, what are the implications of this in society as a whole? People are driven to do whatever they can to craft an image of themselves that appeals to the masses - even if the image they create is incongruous with who they truly are. Corporations eagerly push products on the populace that deliver glamourous but hollow promises of changing people's lives when the reality is that more thought was put into the packaging than its contents. In today's society, images and impressions definitely have too much of an effect on people. To illustrate this, look no further than social media and modern advertising, where the illusion is everything.

The average social media influencer embodies the epitome of a cautionary tale of why one should not believe everything that they see. The career of an influencer revolves around the knowledge that images and impressions have a tight hold on people's thoughts and opinions. Therefore, their lives largely cater to building an image of a "perfect life" - which particular version varies according to their audience's perceived wants and needs. For instance, many influencers will spend inordinate amounts of money to craft a lifestyle filled with luxury goods and tropical vacations in an effort to appear rich. In reality, however, many of these same people aren't well-off but merely put themselves in debt by making these poor financial decisions. That a person would go so far as to self-sabotage and lie about basically their entire life is a testament to the power that image holds over people. Not only is the influencer beholden to trying to maintain their carefully crafted image, but the audience is desparate to believe the lie as well. Everyone wants to believe that they can attain a perfect life, and to admit that their idealized examples of such a life are fake is to let go of that dream. And so both the influencer and the audience are so moved by the illusion that they are willing to disregard reality.

Modern advertising is another shining example of the undue influence of images and impressions on people. Most products nowadays are heavily marketed to appeal to people on many superficial levels - having a flashy appearance, propped up by testimonies from famous celebrities, and advertised as being life-changing in some way or form. While it is true that making a product visually appealing is important, the time spent in perfecting its aesthetics should not outweigh the time spent making sure the product is functional and delivers on its promises. However, this seems to have fallen by the wayside in recent times. And yet, consumers are still driven to purchase these products, taken in by the impression that they give rather than the results that they deliver.

Overall, people as a whole have always been highly ruled by emotion. Images and impressions tend to have too much of an effect on people because of their powerful ability to affect human emotions. People seek out social media influencers to motivate and inspire them, even if everything they do is carefully curated and artificial. Consumers flock to products that are shiny and new with little thought given to the products' practicality or functionality. It truly is the appearance that matters, after all.
