Materialism is often under fire as a poor personality trait that humans have. It is said that materialism is not the path to true bliss. Materialism is an engrained part of our society these days. Most people equate happiness to things or wealth. I believe that having the comfort of things and the comfort of money is a great source of security to build happiness in and shouldnt be critized. 

If you were struggling to make ends meet, working a thankless job and coming home to barely able to afford the one meal you possiblely could afford would you be happy? I would think not. You would be so depressed to realize that you never could have nice things, let alone eat or take care of your physical health by going to the doctor when you were sick. Some people say they content to survive on the bare minimual because not making money "enriches" thier lives to enjoy experiences. I think this a trope that is too often found on social media to gain likes these days. Most people would not be happy living in a small van taking showers at the gym or living off beans and rice.  I think that materialism gives us the strength to achieve more than just "passing by." It gives us meaning to make life more comfortable for yourself and in that you gain experiences because you have the leeway to enjoy more. 

Materialism can help society build up. Most of our modern conviences come from materialism. Tents turn to homes, homes turned to small villages, in turned to small towns until you see our major modern cities today. If people were not interested in making money and having better things we would all still be in dirt huts trading furs and bones to make tools. Materialism makes societies grow and in turn, when there is no shortage of things or wealth. Violence goes down, community activism goes up, civic ammendities are in abundance. Being materialistic shouldnt be critized because it is the change we want in our country.

World trade and our bonds with other countries are cemented by materialism. We wouldnt have trade or commerce like we do today without materialism. We want things that other countries and cultures have too. In turn, by being materialistic we are able to experience other cultures via thier foods, products, or materials. So by being materialistic we are all part of learning and understanding other cultures which can make our world a better place. With that in mind, that makes us a happier, more at peace people. 

In conculsion, Materialism isnt a dirty world like some say. It can be extremely beneficial for society. Not only for ones self, but for thier cities, and ultimately the world. Being materialistic is good thing for everyone and everything. Just in moderation of course. 


 
