Many people ask the question, "Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic?" And in fact in today's world, most people are dependent on material possesions. But who is to say society is too materialistic and what does it matter anyways.

Products and goods, buying and selling, trade-offs are always going to be around. It's a story to tell. Every individual product comes from somewhere, starts from raw material and gets processed into the end result. Many of these products are conversation starters. I think with how society is today and the rapid advancement in technology, we are meant to acquire hedonic items. In today's world, it is complicated to go without material possessions, unless, you go off grid and live off the land away from society. It is just engrained in us to be materialistic even with the most simplest things such as, watching tv, scrolling through Facebook, getting all the latest gadgets.

I think that society is very easily influenced. When it comes to big corporations, we are making the more and more rich. Advertisements convince people to buy their products. And most of the time, we buy these products, use them one time and never pick them up again. These greedy companies are paying for cheap labor overseas, making cheap products and we're paying big bucks for all these items. So in a sense, companies are getting richer and we're getting poorer.
 
My question is, who is criticizing and what is the point? And does it really matter is modern society is too materialistic? I do believe that is good to put down your phones or tablets and get away from society every once in a while and go enjoy the outdoors. I also believe that people get so wrapped up in social media and it causes all these other unnecessary mental health issues. As a personal example, I try to stay off technology as much as possible, I don't really do social media. I've come to realize since taking my first break from social media, I've had a better state of mind, I've become more physically active, explored other things I've always wanted to do. Look back to the beginning when people before us didn't have the priviledge of having easy access to the things we have today. Back in the day, people had to work hard for everything they had, grow their own food, make their own clothes, build their own things etc.


To end this, society is extremely materialistic and many people have lost site of what is really in front of them. But for the younger generations, I think it has affected them more because they grew up around technology and social media. I just don't understand the point of even asking if society is too materialistic, when we all know the answer is obvious.
