Throughout our lives, as we grow, we engage with many different people. Total strangers, people we know in passing, friends, teachers, coworkers, to name just a few. We collaborate with these people, working with them to reach ends for the both of us. At the same time, though, we do more than just cooperate: we also compete. Cooperation and competition both come together to spur growth in our lives, but, like any other animal, there are certain laws that lie beaneath us. Competition can cause much more growth in our lives, leading to more success, better experience, and higher knowledge.

When we are young, nowadays, we needn't worry about competition. We grow under the guidance of our parents until we can walk, babble, and egin understanding life. When we finally go out in the world, though, and first enter school, we begin to experience the concept of competition. Raising our hands is, in itself, a competition for attention. Being first in line at the cafeteria is another concept. This alone causes small successes in our life - if we get our question answered, we can have a better understanding. So, if you "win" more of the teacher's time, its likely you could learn a lot better.

And as we grow older and make it into high school we truly begin to see the core, animalistic competition that lies in my minds: attraction. This does, of course, also create room for us to improve. We might better our health in order to come off as more attractive, or learn new things in order to fit in with others. It is a large competition in order to get what you want during school. It can lead to more friends, a relationship, and better grades. In Highschool, you also get introduced to another form of competition as you age: college.

College is a very big competiotion we begin thinking about in High School. There's a capacity on schools, and some have  very high standards. In order for you to get in, someone has to fail. You have to work on yourself and grow your strength in order to stand out and get to the school you want. You take tests, you study, so that you can win and get into a good school. And, after you do, you begin working towards the next big competition that will guide you throughout the rest of your life: work.

Work is where the true competition begins in life. Businesses don't, of course, have infinite jobs. Where one person receives a job, many others lose. In order to get a job, you need to prove to others that you are the better fit. In other words, you compete with many other people - although not directly - in order to achieve financial success. You build a good resume, show off why you're a better fit than others, and perhaps you'll land the job. But you need to prove to the employer that you are the better fit, that YOU should win. The entire concept of work in life is the true competition we really have to deal with all the time. It is important because it provides us with financial success, but it can also lead to better knowledge, or new connections or relationships - if you just win the fight to get that job, you open up many roads to success, paved on competition. 

All these various forms of competition show one, clear fact: competition helps strengthen us throughout our lives; we are no different than other animals built on this concept. With competition, we learn life values, improve our social standing, earn new skills, get money... it forms the foundation of our lives. We see that it starts when we are young, needing to win attention, and goes on to when we are full adults, competing for jobs or relationships. Without competition, there is no growth, there is nothing to set you apart from others. But, what about the other side of this topic? How does cooperation compare?

Cooperation is, of course, very important, as well. Humans are social animals, so cooperation plays a big role. We work together in grade school, completing group projects, putting on plays, and playing on sports teams. This cooperation sparks growth, too - we learn new things being exposed to others' thought processes, and it helps establish morals and ideals. It can lead to getting into a better school, or you can even get a job thanks to a friend. However, cooperation has its draw backs than can affect your chances of success.

The first draw back is reliancy. Sure, you can learn from cooperation, but if you can't be dependent, then growth will stagnate. Too much cooperation can and will negatively affect what you learn and how you learn it. You could learn incorrectly, for example, and it could significantly harm your chance of success. And being too reliant on others can lead to you not knowing what to do when you're alone. You're also not as motivated to improve upon yourself if you know there are others to turn to. If you don't have a fallback - if you don't have a choice - then the stakes are high. High stakes - this competition and stress - leads to increased motivation, allowing you to hone your own tools better than if you used the tools of others. 

Cooperation and Competition are two sides of life - the two sides that create Humanity. Cooperation has guided humans to work together and establish society. It brought us together, and allowed us to fight off threats. This cooperation, however, only occured because of a base instinct, a desire to stay alive - that is, we cooperated only because we had to compete against other animals. Competition caused cooperation. It led to better resources, different cultures, and new technology. It is safe to say that the two work best together, but it is this competition that really helps people grow, by utilizing our base, animal mindset. It motivates us during our whole life: grade school, high school, college, and work. For success, competition is a necessity that has improved our lives, and will continue to do so for many years to come.
