Should modern society be critized for being materialistic? This is a question that is currently being asked as our society grows more and more materialistic. Though there are many great arguments to be had in opposition, I do not believe that modern society should be critized for being materialistic. 

Finding happiness in life has been a vital journey our society has traveled in the past and currently, still, in the present. It's something our society will never stop yearning. Materials bring happiness in life. Take a over-worked office worker living in the city. City life excites her and enables her to work hard on enhancing and furthering her career, but often she dreams of a country-side vacation...a slower life. So she spends her weekends at the local nursery; she picks out flowers, plants, soil, garden beds, and pots to plant in her 6' by 2' balcony in her high-rise. She shares her small balcony garden with her colleagues and starts their gardening journeys. They too spend their weekends and money to find their happiness in flowers and trees. Quickly they all find new resources to further enhance their gardens in new gardening technology - plant beds that connect to their smart phones that inform of gardening needs: watering times, levels, sunlight needs, nutrition needs, growth times. This increases happiness found in gardens. Happiness can be found by viewing the garden when home and learning about their gardens throughout work via their smartphones. Modern materials in our modern society has made acquiring happiness easier. Additionally, a slower life in the countryside is not a new concept and definitely one that doesn't scream materialism. It's non-material happiness that can be found in modern society by materials. Materials are necessary in modern times to create non-material happiness. 

As others may argue, yes it may take less effort to drive to the countryside for a weekend or two, saving money and resources, but a weekend of happiness is less than happiness found daily in viewing and/or tending to a home garden, albiet small and in a high-rise balcony. 

Modern society should not be critized for being materialistic. Instead it should create newer, modern ways to use materials in our journeys to happier lives.
