     In the United States, capitalism is the heart of our economy and we all love to consume things one way or another. More often then not, Materialism has a big impact on our daily lives. The modern era we live in today is possible because of our economic system and how we use that to our advantage. Materialism, whether it is our biggest asset or our biggest downfall, it is undoubtly apart of our everyday lives. 

   In this system we have in todays society, we should embrace materialism. Not only does it help our economic system prosper and grow, it also has the ability to make the consumer happier with their purchases. For example, everyone can relate to the fact that we all enjoyed playing with toys as a little kid. Whether that be playing with legos, play-doh, teddy bears, there was always something we wanted that gave us large amounts of excitement and gave us a large smile on our faces. Even as an grown adult we might want a luxurious car, prettier bag, and anything that makes us confident and fulfilled. Although the feeling associated with the items might be different depending on our ages and preferences, they all give us an boost in happiness. 

   On the other hand, having a society that wildly embraces materialism could mislead us from what is important at its core. We all use our phones in our daily lives which really benefit us, but we often take too much time on it. This is just one example of how materialism distracts us from our original goal. Another example could be that we are artifically buying our happiness with goods that make us happy for awhile. However, even if it does buy us happiness for awhile, we might not solve our underlying problems in other areas of our lives. Materialism could help cope with it, but it wont solve the problems we face in a much grander scale such as our social life, romantic relationships, workplace environment, anything that involves connection with others.

The bottom line of having Materialism in our society is that there should be encouragement in other areas, and not rely heavily on Materialism. It is undeniably an important factor in our lives and it gives our economy a huge boost. However, we need to control and be responsible with our use of Materialism so that it does not negatively affect other parts of our lives. 
