Humans make decisions based on what they see.  In today's society, what is shown to us is often not reality.  Images are distorted, filtered, or photo-shopped to display a better cover than what is really true.  People make decisions based on these altered images, and can regret their decision later once the reality is revealed.  This is true for images in the media, in stores, and many other places - even in person.  These facades continue to effect the decision-making process every day.

Have you ever purchased an item in a store, only to be disappointed once you opened the item at home?  The packaging on the outside of the item looked exactly like what you wanted, and even surpassed your expectations.  It drew you in immediately when you saw it, and you knew you needed to have that item!  But when you opened the item, it was nothing like the outside packaging.  It was not what you expected, and you regret making that purchase.  These trumped-up images on the outside of packages are found everywhere.  Entertainers post exciting images to social media, but their actual shows are not exciting.  Movie trailers can draw you in with suspense, but the actual movie itself is dull for the most part.  Even politicians portray impressions of a certain political stance, only to reveal their true stance on the issue once elected.  We are fooled in our every day lives by these false images, and the effect on people can be significant.

Some might say these false images are necessary.  Consumerism is based on sales, and certainly you must put your best foot forward to draw the customer in, right?  While this is true, these images and impressions made have gone too far - rather that showing the best side of you, they show an untrue side of you.  This can lead to disappointed customers, constituents, and an overall feeling of being decepted - which can lead to major consequences.  

It's too bad we cannot find a way to force people and companies to only display truth.  As it stands today, images and impression put forth have too much of an effect on persuading people to purchase or make decisions that they later regret, and that do not align with their personal views.  When truth is distorted, the effect can be catistrophic.
