Competition in the workplace among peers is an age old issue in my opinion. I feel it leaves some indeed avoiding failure by  becoming less engaged in the situation with their co-workers. Many employees will do anything they can to make sure their co-workers will not succeed, including lying, stealing, and destroying others work just to win the competition. 

I don't believe in competition among coworkers at all. I witnessed too many people fighting among one another and tossing others under the bus just to try to get ahead when given simple tasks or goals to hit. Without a doubt I believe working together as a unit wins on all accounts. The co-workers wouldn't have a reason to make others feel like giving up or that they weren't good enough for the goals they were trying to reach independently. 

Working in a cooperation will bring them together and they will actually end up adding more to the project together as they will most likely try to out do one another, but in this way it sparks interest and more success because everyone will feel they can contribute and feel they are acomplishing more than they might have on their own without fear of failure. They may even learn they think simular or gain respect for their coworker's which is a win win.

Many may argue that working independently in competition is the better way because the best workers will stand out, however, the ones that seem to fail might have brighter ideas, but are to shy to express themselves when faced with things alone. Or their unique ideas may have been taken by another leading to anger and resentment that another got recognition for their own hard work. Many pretend to be friends just to gain their status in the workplace. These workers also tend to toss their work onto others once they learn they can get away with false achivements.

I know for a fact that it is far more rewarding and memerable as a team working on a project that much more can be accomplished, as it allows brain storming, cooperation among each other and they will later on gain the confidence out of the experience to perhaps work independently as well. Most of the time working towards one common goal can eliminate a lot of wasted time and speed up a project in a successful manner that everyone will be proud of inculuding themselves and the bosses.  
