Happiness is a greatly debated topic within American culture, likely stemming from the Founding Father's statements of "Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness" being basic and undeniable human rights. But how exactly does one pursue happiness in a healthy and productive manner? Is it discovered through a self-focus on goals or through living in community? While many believe that the pursuit of one's individual happiness is the key to finding that happiness, others debate that assisting others in finding their happiness is the true path to individual happiness. 

From personal experience, helping others find their happiness is the best way to find individual happiness. A greater sense of fulfillment can be found by helping and caring for others, either physically, mentally, or emotionally. By assisting others in fulfilling their needs, a sense of accomplishment and pride can be found, thus leading to happiness. This care and community can provide happiness to all involved, even in the darkest moments. Humans are designed as a communal species, relying heavily on the interactions and assistance from the people closest to them. By placing onesself into various spheres of community, either through religion, hobbies, volunteering, or education, the individual can increase their happiness by the assistance of other people and having others assist them. 

While the individual pursuit of happiness is not bad in itself, often times it is better to remove the focus from the personal struggles and to assist others in their happiness. When a community and support system is formed, they can help to bear the mental loads of each other. When the individual is self-focused, they may not have others to help support during hard seasons such as loss, grief, illness, or struggle, leaving the individual to bear these burdens entirely alone. When a support system is formed these dark seasons can often be interwoven with happiness through the knowledge of having others caring for the person, and getting to help care for another during their struggles. 

Often times persons identifying as a "lone wolf" can have greater feelings of lonliness, depression, anxiety, and stress, because a percieved lack of community and support can wreck an individual's happiness. These "lone wolf" individuals may have high levels of broken trust, leading to refusal or inability to become part of a community. Without having this support system around them to help carry the mental load of simply existing, they can potentially be very unhappy people. 

By choosing to live in community with others, people are not only pursuing the happiness and health of others, but their own happiness at the same time. Helping to relieve the suffering and pain of another person can provide a sense of peace and happiness, and having the same done in return provides a boost to the happiness of the individual. While individual goals are deeply needed and helpful, people must also help others in their spheres of influence. Happiness is a good pursuit, best found through living in a method that helps others find their happiness in addition to the individual's goals, eventually finding individual happiness along the way.
