The lone wolf or the pack. Which produces better more sustainable results in the ever changing environments in society, politics, or the business worlds? Is the lone wolf  competitive approach of the individual or small group better than the cooperative approach of the pack? 

In these ever changing environments and the globalization of business and society the flexibility and adaptability provide by cooperation will produce far greater and more sustainable results over the long term than will competitive models. The need to be able to work together across increasingly diverse cultures, rapidly changing global situations (think of the last few years with the pandemic and the Russian invasion of Ukraine), and rapidly developing technology have shown the weaknesses of the competition strategy. Know entity whether a singular person or small group or even a larger corporation can have enough talent, resources, or knowledge to be flexible and adaptable enough to keep up. Through coorperation internally and externally can enough resources and knowledge be brought to bare for long term success.

While there are certain benefits of competiveness such as increased drive and motivation those only can be sustained for the short term before its weakness begins to show. It produces an inability and lack of desire to work for the best and most long term solutions and fosters only a win now and short term goal oriented behavior. Competition by its nature means lack of cooperation which short changes the competitors whose insular nature cannot access the diverse skills, talents, and knowledge to adapt to ever changing situations. It alienates others meaning they can't pull in ideas and talents of others when their own falls short. Competing factions have no reason to see the others succeed so have no motivation to help each other and so end up intentionally or by simple lack of help sabotauging each other.

Cooperation brings the long term good to the fore front and makes the best use of a multitude of people and their unique talents and contributions available for long term success and sustainablity and as importantly the widest range of knowledge available to react to the rapid and ever changing environments of today.

Rudyard Kipling in his poem The Law of the Jungle wrote this line: "The strength of the wolf is the pack and the strength of the pack is the wolf."  It recognizes that while the individual strengths, uniqueness, and knowledge each wolf brings is vital to the success of the pack it the pack that gives the individual wolf his strength. Together, blending all the strengths of the individual wolves, only together is the pack able to be successful, safe, and reach its full potential. Alone a wolf may succeed for a short time but won't forever be able to out compete or outlast the various challenges of the jungle only by cooperating and joining the pack can it succeed. Conversely the larger and more diverse the pack is the stronger, more capable, and adaptable it becomes. Cooperation trumps Competition in any jungle.
