Happiness is unique, that is, what brings a person happiness. The meaning of happiness alone could mean different things to different people. For instance, I may think happiness means feeling content where another may believe happiness is when they feel elated. 

I find it interesting the different vocations people choose. We view some as obviously happy jobs, such as a clown or a kindergarten teacher. Maybe a wedding planner would also be viewed as a 'happy job'. Where, there are other vocations like working at a funeral home that are not viewed as a happy job. However, in talking with someone who works at a funeral home they may tell you that they get great satisfaction out of helping peoople in their time of need. My first job out of high school was working at a funeral home and, so, I say this out of my own experience.

Therefore, considering the above, how to obtain happiness will be different for each of us. I personally believe that there are more of us that feel happiest when we focus on the happiness of others. Personally I find that a very pure form of happiness.

Some may argue that happiness stems from personal success or meeting goals they have set for themselves.  Most people make an immediate assumption that this means job related. This is not necessarily career related. For some, their goal may be to have children, or to travel. They feel happy they have been able to attain these things in their lives and have the experience children and or their travel gives them. They may find happiness out of being able to take in foster children. If they are a traveller, they may find happiness in gaining an understanding to other peoples way of life, traditions and plights.

I believe we have to each seek our own path. We should not judge others by what they seek. I feel happiest when I help others be or feel happy. I feel elated, successful and content all at the same time. There is no greater feeling than the feeling of happiness. Certainly it beats the alternative. I wish for everyone great happiness in their lives. I will help them if and when I can. I have met people who completely disagree with that and I respect their right to seek their own path to happiness.

A meaningful life may equate to happiness. I would love to see a poll of those at the end of their lives that asked two questions: 1. Did you feel like your life was meaningful? and 2. Were you happy? Would both answers necessarily have to be yes to make sense? What would we surmize if one answer was yes and the other no?

I do think finding happiness can be more complex than some make it out to be. Oh, not for everyone, of course, but for some of us. I cannot be in a horrible place with bad things happening to me on a daily basis and find happiness "in my mind" like some suggest when they say it is all about attitude. I disagree with that summation. If you are a person who can be happy in spite of wretched circumstances than more power to you. I am simply not that kind of person.

And, again, we circle around to it takes all kinds. And I am thankful for that. If we all chased the same dream the world would be a lot less interesting. We should all look around more and listen more to one another and perhaps care a little more about others happiness. To me, happiness equates to a good quality of life. Not everyone was given the opportunity to chase their dreams so if you have that opportunity, I hope you do not let the days pass by in vain. Are we teaching our kids how to find happiness? Or, are we just teaching them to be successful? And if it is success, is it a successful goal that will make them happy in life? For a lifetime?

We get but one life. Make it a good one. A happy one. And, perhaps not just happy for yourself, but maybe you can also make a few other people happy along the way. How nice would that be.

