Society, at least in America, has taught us that in order to be successful we must be the best and not allow others to bring us down. It creates an environment that breeds competition and animosity towards your fellows. It is how our definition of success has been ingrained in our minds. But, I am here to say that this is in fact a false and often catastrophic believe. For it is not competition, but indeed cooperation, that leads to true and long lasting success.

Cooperation is a highly unrecognized and undervalued commodity in our society. We cannot be expected to be great at everything. We must know when to ask for help, we must know our strengths and our limits- or risk failure and burnout. Cooperation is how we take our skills and talents to the next level. Indeed, as far back as our early days as humans, this cooperation is the very thing that has led us to where we are today. We have built cities, and even gone to space through this important human trait. Competion doesn't give us this, one person can't build a city alone.

Look at something simple like the career of your average Youtube content creator. They tipically start as a lone wolf trying to find an audience. They make videos and do EVERYTHING at the start. They research, gather b-roll, film footage, record audio and often do a camera setup involving a set and lights. They edit the video and post it, then analyze analitics for how to improve upon the next video. Everything is made by this person, they are competing against the world, the algorythm. 

This, while perhaps necessary at first to achieve any type of success, is not sustainable. This person will eventually burnout and crash upon the weight of it all. Successful content creators, seeking longterm success, will start to find others to assist them. They will find a video editor, at first- then perhaps, a producer. Slowly they will start to seek help and this help, or cooperation, is what will lead them to not only improve their content but allow them to continue to be successful in the longterm. Instead of viewing the world as if everyone is the enemy, we appreciate strengths in others and try to get them to work alongside us for mutual success. 

Some people may disagree with this take on success. Afterall, American culture tends to celebrate individualism and individual success. Look at people often idolized like Elon Musk, whose success is said to be his own. They say that everything he ever achieved was through his own intelligence and wit and perseverance. That he defied all the odds and came out on top. He is the best, and he must be admired- and if you do what he did you can be too. That is what we value. But that narrative is a lie.

Elon Musk did not achieve his success on his own. Not only was he born to wealth, but he purchased his success with that wealth. He didn't create it, he perhaps popularized it. He took patons and used his worth to elevate them to potential. These were other peoples work. He collaborated, he cooperated. He worked, and works, alongside some of the greatest minds on Earth. That is what makes him successful, that cooperation. There is no Elon Musk without it.

Despite what many may think or feel based on the misconceptions fed to us by society, success is rarely if ever something that can be achieve alone. You cannot fight your way through to the top, you need to cooperate. You need to understand the strengths and gifts of the people around you. You need to understand the power of community building, one of the strongest human traits, which is our ability to work in groups large and small to achieve miracles. Through cooperation we don't just achieve longterm success for ourselves, but we guarantee success for all.
