I think people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals and happiness. Seeking personal fulfillment seems to be a logical goal to be pursued by every human being, however, on a day-to-day basis it is easy to realize that this is not always the case.We live so busy and distracted with everything that surrounds us, that thinking about what makes you feel fulfilled seems to be a luxury within the reach of few. In other words, if you start talking about happiness and personal fulfillment among your group of friends, it is not surprising that they look at you strangely and think that you are not with your feet on the ground. That personal fulfillment is a story and that life is harder than all that.Yet those same people can indulge in pleasure over and over again, in part to make up for that lack of happiness, and not even realize it.

We cannot put first the happiness of other people over ours. We need to think about us first before thinking of some other people. We cannot sacrifice the opportunities that we have in life for the interests of a group. It's a bit selfish but we need to find happiness. The truth is that in day-to-day conversations it is better seen to talk about pleasure (food, restaurants, drugs, sex, etc.) than to talk about intrinsic sources of happiness.As a consequence, we live trapped in the first while the second is scarce. And this results in a society full of appearances where the important thing is what the other thinks, instead of seeking true inner well-being.If you are one of those who do not fit in with this way of life and you are willing to go one step further than most in the search for a lifestyle that truly fills you, this post interests you.

We cannot be into the happiness of others if that means to sacrifice our own happiness and personal development. Personal fulfillment or self-actualization is being able to achieve one's personal motivations, hopes, and ambitions through personal growth. This term refers to trying to reach your full potential, achieve success, and build a happy life that you can be proud of.                                                                                       
                               
                         

                                                               
