     Materialism is a problem that almost everyone in the world faces at some point in their life. Owning expensive things and showering loved ones with gifts shows your status. Everyone has wants and even if those wants aren't materialistic, buying items can make it feel like you are working toward your end goal. Buying gifts to work toward a healthy relationship, buying nice clothes to impress your boss at work, or buying clothing to give to the homeless, all these are examples of materialistic actions that support a non materialistic goal.
     In my opinion being materialistic isn't as bad as most people make it out to be. Above all else the money you make is yours to do whatever you want with. Anyone that tries to impose their own moral principles on you for such a harmless topic is trying to fill the gaps within their own character. Being materialistic doesn't harm anyone. If someone gets upset with how materialistic a person is it should be treated like any other quality they find negative. Decide if they can live with it or move on. I would say that harrassing someone for being materialistic, as long as it is not hurting the person, is the more negative quality in that scenario.
     Some people will say that it is a bad quality, or habit, and must be unlearned to live a successful life. I can't think of anyone I know that doesn't have a bad quality of some kind. Human beings are flawed creatures and trying to make them perfect hurts them and you. I will agree that if it becomes such a problem that they are buying things rather than food, or can no longer move through there home because of piles of stuff, then yes it transitions from a trait to an illness. If it is not that serious though people should be allowed to live their life how they see fit. It is their money, their time, and their home. Compromise may need to be made for a romantic relationship, but they have decided to turn their two seperate lives into one, and that doesn't really apply to my argument.
     We should be a little more accepting of peoples flaws and habits. escpecially ones that do not hurt anyone else. I am all for helping someone in need, but not judgment for judgments sake. I myself am a little materialistic. I take pride in some of the things I own or have made, and that's completely ok. It is also ok to long to return to a simpler time with less reliance on "things". You can live your life however you want to and I will support that choice. The modern world is full of modern challenges, but they can be a little less challenging with more understanding.
