Do we really know what image we're buying into, who we're seeing on the tv, or reading about in our favorite magazines? Is anything we see in the media actually real? In a world where we are more worried about the impressions we have on people, and what we do or buy that reflects on our image, it may be hard to decipher what we really see, think or feel. 

Being more worried about our first impression, or our over all impression to those around us really takes away from whats real about us. You no longer are worried about being true to yourself or to your own morals."Making face" and being kind to avoid being rude, has turned into being something you're not. Does anybody really know the real you? Do YOU know the real you? Being too worried about your image takes time away from yourself and doing the things you would much rather be doing. Most likely, with the people you'd rather be doing it with. Trying to impress everybody is why I think depression is so high. Especially in our youth. When we watch tv and see entertainers who come off as perfect. When we see politicians who act like their values are better than ours. When we shop, and see images that imply you should be buying this; be this size; look like this, it has an untamed effect on our souls until we're worn down to nothing. You can't simply become these leaders and people we see in the media. Because those versions of the people we see, simply aren't real. 

Trying to be who we weren't meant to be, who we don't want to be, it takes a real mental, emotional and physical toll on us. It's not worth fitting in with the crowd in this one life we have to live. Everybody should be exactly who they are. As the are. To feel the freedom of that choice and let the weight of trying to fit in with this image slowly release their mind, body, and soul. Feel how you want to feel. Love how you want to love. Look however you want to look. Believe in whatever you feel is right and what moves you. Lets raise a new level of standard, way beyond fitting in. Lets be original. 
