Images and impressions definitely have too much of an effect on people in today's day and age. Social media marketing has people running to various stores and websites to purchase useless items under the impression that it will make their lives better in some way. Influencers get paid to promote products that don't actually work, smartphones are being put into the hands of literal children, and no one is who they claim to be anymore. Everywhere we turn, there is someone pretending to present their "authentic selves" online and the rest of us are falling for it. 

The growth of social media and influencer marketing has shown us that people will spend money just because something looks good. Not only do influencers promote horrible products, many also start their own businesses and brands revolving around fake products. Many people trust influencers based on the amount of followers they have, the more followers, the more trust worthy they seem. They are unware of bots and the fact that people can buy followers; essentially trusting random people online to deliver accurate information. Half the time, heavy editing and filters mask the true nature of the products they are promoting. Viral trends that influencers start also play a key role in what people buy online. The "Pink Sauce" lady advertised a food product that wasn't safe for consumption, but people bought it just to see what all the hype was about. 

Another thing that doesn't help, is that children as young as 8 and 9 years old have access to smartphones and social media. They are being exposed to people and their fake lives, insisting on emulating them. Large content creators like Mr. Beast for example, boast extravagent lifestyles and despite being a grown adult, his followers are mostly children. They aspire to be like him and ask their parents to buy his merchandise, which leads to more promotions for his content. These children are growing up watching influencers and thinking that what they are watching online is real life. I'd go as far as to say, they can't distinguish between the two, real life and the internet, and this is going to possibly impact them in the future.

Most influencers paint pretty pictures of their lives and make the rest of us feel like we're missing out. It makes it easier to promote products or a lifestyle that isn't necessarily attainable but looks good. Recently, a former member of the "Try Guys," whose whole online persona revolved around being married and loving his wife, was exposed for cheating. It was something that surprised many people but was a reminder that we shouldn't assume or be fooled by how nice or "perfect" someone's life might seem online.

Overall, it's safe to say images and impressions have a large impact on people. From influencers marketing random products to children having unlimited access to the internet; the age of social media has everyone wanting to live a life that isn't as attainable as it might seem. We lose sight of what's actually important when we allow these things to consume us.
