     As far as the subject of wether or not people are more likely to be happy focusing on their own goals or the happiness of others, in my opinion that can truly be a double edged sword.  It would honestly depend on the person and how driven they are towards either aspect.
     You for instance have the individuals out there who are people pleasers . They put everone elses ideas  and happiness before their own. While that is not always a bad thing . Society will see that and take advantage and label you as weak. Making others happy will not always fulfill you or make you happy. Sometimes it can have the exact opposite affect and drag you down. I know for example as in Christianity people should be happy to serve others . However if the person you put before yourself does not see it that way , they will us it to their advantage. The same goes in the workplace. If you are that YES MAN or woman  that tends to be heavily exploited . While you may think you are the bosses favorite in reality you are essentially making the boss feel better about themselves and their way of doing things . Basically being a sheep in the middle of the wolves.
 While on the other hand if you are focused on your own goals , people will sometimes see you as driven. While some will see you as selfcentered and not concerned about others. Alot of the time that is done by jealous individuals or persons who want to tear you down and want to see you fail. Some will be there to back you and some will wait till your back is turned. 
     So in my honest opinion are persons more likely to be happy on their own goals or the happiness of others. My answer is you have to find your own unique balance. What works for some will not work for others. So there is no true formula to ensure the end results from either way.  I personally learned to not lose sight of what I want , but at the same time help with the hapiness of others. If they take advantage the were not worthy of your time and energy. Also do not get discouraged at set backs to your goals because  as we all know life happens. Its how you adapt and react and overcome that matters. If we stop progressing and learning we are for all practical pourposes dead.
     So I am not sure this is exactly what was being looked for by this prompt , but this is the way I feel on that subject. I know I think differently than a good deal of people and see things from a varied perspective. So that helped me form the opinion I stated in this essay.Also from a law enforcement standpoint you have to look at things from multiple angles.
