In my opinion, competetition is unlikely to promote a healthy work environment, thus unable to produce long lasting accomplishments. Competition is often thought to drive people to perform their best and motivate people. However, I would argue that intense rivalry and competition is rather unmotivating, damages self esteem, and promotes an unhealthy and uncooperative work environment.

If people are pitted against each other and intense rivalry is encouraged, there is no sense of teamwork or cooperation between group members and employees. If employees cannot work together, and every individuals ideas aren't valued, this results in a lack of communication between team members as well as a focus on individualism. When a team is strong and listens to all of the opinions of the members, there is more room for innovation and more likelihood of success. A team that has more diverse opinions and a strong sense of comradery will be more successful in creating innovative and successful solutions. When it is up to individuals only, there is a loss of nuanced thinking and more possibility of failure.  

Additionally, intense rivalry is damaging to the self esteem of team members, thus decreasing motivation. When motivation is decreased, better ideas are not produced. If a team member feels as though they are not valued, or like they have failed, it will decrease the likeliness that they will continue to try as hard, and come up with innovative and successful ideas in the future. 

Individualism in America is a big problem in today's society. There is so much competition that the results of good collaboration are disregarded and individuals become less motivated to continue to put effort towards their ideas and goals. We are taught about the importance of teamwork in school and sports, but as we continue into our adult lives, we learn that the general culture of America requires us to act in our own individual interests, rather than the interest of the group. This results in better outcomes for certain individuals, as only a very specific type of person can thrive in such a competitive environment.  Though this might be beneficial for the specific individuals, the group is not only unable to thrive, but the successes we are able to achieve are limited due to narrow viewpoints and lack of diverse opinions and ideas. The positive outcomes of many ideas that are put into action in this kind of environment usually are not long lasting and unstable. 

This comes back to the idea of merit vs. diversity. This is an ongoing debate, but many, including myself, believe that diversity is just as important as merit as it brings in different opinions and perspectives, thus creating well rounded ideas. It's also worth noting that merit is not really something which can be defined, as someone who lacks skills in one area most likely excels in another. A competition based environment values merit over diversity, which I would argue produces not only less, but weaker ideas that ultimately less valuable. 

Ultimately, when people, such as employees and team members, are pitted against each other, there is a decrease in success and the production of good, innovative ideas and solutions. In order to function well, a team must be challenged but also encouraged and accepted. With increased collaboration, there's more room for ideas and a greater possibility of achievement. Additionally, when everyone feels as though they are heard, they will feel motivated and excited to continue to work on the project and come up with new ideas and solutions. When more voices are heard, an idea becomes more well rounded and thus, more successful, significant, stable, and long lasting. 
