In today's world, there is a lot of competition and focus on personal image through validation of outside sources. With social media vehicles, such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, it may seem that some people have everything going for them and are incredibly happy. The more "likes" the better, right? The more "likes" the more others are validating your lifestyle to suggest that, yes, this is what determines one's self worth and happiness. However, is someone truly happy by seeking validation that he or she should be happy simply because others say they should feel that way or are people happier focusing on their own personal goals without validation from an outside audience? One would argue that truly happy people are happy from doing what feels best to them personally, not because they've received external validation from others. 

For a person to feel true happiness, it has to come within the person themselves. No one else can make you feel happy. Setting personal goals and living life based on those goals and not through validation of external sources brings more happiness than any "like" on social media will. Why is this? Well, when someone becomes too caught up in what others think of them or what society collectively thinks should make us happy, it will not bring someone true happiness because it's not something you personally feel passionate or happy about. It will feel mindless and meaningless. 

For example, let's say that you're told that marriage is the only way you will feel true happiness in life due to society telling you that you should get married. However, you personally do not feel ready for marriage, but others are saying it is the only way that you'll truly feel happiness because you'll be able to start a family that will improve humanity. You get a lot of "likes" on social media when you post pictures of you two, so you decide to get married. Then, once married, you and your partner learn that you have two different outlooks on life and realize you have nothing in common. You also have fertility issues and are unable to get pregnant to start a family that society says you need to have in order to fit in. You personally do not feel happy because life is not panning out the way you were told it would and how it should. 

If you were not married, then you would have been able to live your life in the way that brought you true happiness. You'd be able to live life on your terms and not be clashing with someone over how things should be done. Or at least find a partner after some more time together and getting to know what both of you want to combine lives and find happiness by supporting each other's personal goals. 

In conclusion, people are more likely to be happy by focusing on their own personal goals than trying to appeal to society that their life choices are true and happy. No one is responsible for someone else's happiness. 


