How do we best achieve success? Is it by working with others in a cohesive team or by feeling the intense pressure of competition? This question has been asked and studied by scholars and leaders. 

I believe unity and working together as a group can yield the most results and successful accomplishments. A team that has diverse backgrounds and skills can achieve great things together. I personally enjoy working with others, as opposed to working alone. I find a group setting can allow numerous ideas and hypotheses to arise. Teams can use team members as a sound board and work through ideas together to find the best solution to a problem or identify new ideas. I have often realized when working in a team, that folks have different ways to approach a topic in a fashion that I had not considered before. I appreciate the insight from people who may have different experience or expertise. 

Many business offices promote the teamwork culture and provide methods to best understand how you work or how you manage your own skills to support working amongst others. Businesses thrive on great minds working together for a common purpose or goal. Teams can divide and conquer tasks and use their skillsets to focus on items that need attention from someone with a certain expertise. Divvying up tasks can ensure all members of a team feel engage and can support a goal. Team members can lift eachother up and lend a hand if another member needs assistance.

Encouraging team mates can help fuel success and drive people to continue in their efforts. Having someone cheer you on can truly make the difference and push you when it is needed. Sports teams, performers, students, or groups supporting a cause, are examples of a group coming together for a goal where cheering eachother on and supporting your peers can help achieve great things.

There are arguments that working alone and being cut throat is the best and only way to achieve success, although I don't agree. Billionaires like Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk are examples of that type of mindset and worker. But I argue that those gentlemen wouldn't be where they are without the work of others - such as employees, other chief level officers, the support of their spouses, etc. The stress of extreme competition can harm an individual, making them feel ill, feel inadequate and even harm their relationships. It can lead someone to cheat or perhaps do things they wouldn't do under such extreme stress to avoid failure. 

In closing, history shows that teams and groups can achieve amazing things together that influence our world in a positive manner. Diversity of thought and the support of a team can motivate and inspire great change and success. A well known quote states "many hands make light work" and I agree.
