The pursuit of happiness has long been a topic of conversation, cause of conflict, subject of media, and has even been codified as an inalienable right in the United States. However, for equally as long, there has been disagreement about how to actually attain happiness. Everyone agrees that the pursuit is a worthy cause, but what does the pursuit entail? Some believe that happiness is achieved by completing personal and internal goals, while others maintain that it is arrived at when more outwardly-focused or universal goals are completed. Which will produce a happier person? I believe that goals that focus on both the self and others are indispensable in order to produce true, long-term life satisfaction and happiness. 

Every person posesses a unique combination of desires. As we progress through life, we develop skills that help us work toward achieving the desires that we determine to be worthwhile. The gradual development of these skills and the attainment of many smaller goals along the way is what builds our self-confidence, and self-confidence is necessary for a person to be happy. Therefore, the confidence that accumulates over time, in addition to actually obtaining our desires, suggests that pursing personal goals is an important part of happiness. 

An equally important contributor to happiness is a sense of belonging and community. This is often built in moments of selflessness and helping others to achieve their own goals. If someone becomes overly focused on their personal goals at the expense of those around them, they do not allow space for their community to grow and are left isolated. At the same time, only focusing on others often leads to feelings of obligation, which can grow into resentment. If that occurs, the sense of community is likewise lost, and that person has missed out on opportunities to develop their self-confidence. Thus, truly happy people must learn to balance their interest in themselves and in others.

A person that chooses solely themselves or solely others is unlikely to experience happiness or contentment. As social creatures, we deeply desire community, but we also need to maintain a sense of purpose and self. Therefore, it is impossible to have happiness without having both. If someone were to choose one over the other, they are likely to be equally unhappy, regardless of their choice. Rather than a sitation of either/or, those who truly wish to pursue happiness should consider it a case of both/and, wherein they set and work toward personal goals while simultaneously considering those around them and ways in which they can contribute.
