Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?
My personal opinion is that no they dont. At least not a negative one.  Its true that advertising is really all about the image and thats OK in my book. We are asked to use our imaginations as we create who we want to be in this world. The possibilities are wide open. 
Who is to really say what reality is? I think we create our own reality and that perception is not a judgeable fact. It just IS. 
We are going to be drawn to products that help define us. The goal of the creator of the product is to create images that appeal to large majorities. For example, right now sustainability and natural products and its lifestyle are VERY popular and most companies are jumping on that bandwagon . 
Maybe they are creating our reality for us. They are certainly influencing and guiding a certain IDEAL. If we, the consumers feel good about that ideal then whats the harm? It becomes a win/win for both creator and consumer. 
Especially as we move into the virtual reality world we will be more ensconced into this world of impressions. Almost like living out our fantasies. If these are wholesome and good for individual growth then I do think we are heading in the right direction in the advertising world. 
I also see this playing out on social media sites like Instagram. Drawn to the beautiful aesthetic of a small snippet. We are captivated and satiated with the pleasure that the images and impressions have on us. The music also plays its part on the emotions. 
Is that small snippet the reality playing out ? Yes and at the same time no. These are curated snippets. The corner of the room in perfect order is not the same picture as the other side of the room with the dirty dishes in the sink. 
Packaging matters. We want and need the whole experience. We want and need a little fantasy. We need to be able and allowed to rise above some parts of our darker realities, even for a small moment. 
Beauty and comfort are essential and sense impressions t
