There is a question of whether happiness is more more strongly related to persuing personal aspirations, or those of other people. Through the course of this essay I argue that happiness is more strongly tied to one's personal goals.

Humans are, at their core, selfish. Whether they aspire to meet their own goals, or those of others, they are unavoidably only meeting their own interests. Even in the most extreme case of total selflessenss in behavior, it is necessarily meeting a personal goal of something like a sense of duty, shame, etc. One might wish to devote their whole life to science that improves humanity, or creating arts for humanity to enjoy, but it is impossible to separate from the fact that this just serves to tickle your own inner needs to do such a thing.

That aside, helping others tends to be punished. Others will take advantage of your kindness and demand more of it than is healthy for you. They will see you less as a kind person, and more as free labor. One such example is often seen in schools. When you help someone with homework, they will keep coming for more and more help, with no consideration about your feelings. In the course of this, you never really win friendship or respect. It is hard to find happiness from such an arrangement. Or we can see another case with doctors. They spend a huge percent of their limited life on earth studying to become a doctor. However, their families tend to treat them as a credit card, and have strained relationships otherwise. Doctors are so overworked that it is hard to get any happiness or enjoyment out of helping others in general either. When you are so tired, you cannot rise beyond your body's basic needs, nevermind reaching something like happiness. 

Furthermore, taking care of your personal goals is more directly satisfying. Everyone knows what they want, and they can very clearly see progress towards attaining it. When you help others, they often state their desires incorrectly. You can put in lots of effort and they still will not appreciate it because you have not done what they actually wanted. It is often seen where a wife will demand jewelery, expensive clothes and so on, to the farthest a husband can afford. However this never seems to satisfy. You spend a large percentage of your earnings on such a thing and yet still your spouse is unsatisfied and the interpersonal relationship has not improved.

We can see from these things that by persuing ones own goals, people will be happier in general. Our nature, how other people treat us, and the directness of the actions all affect how happy the direction of goal accomplishment makes us. 
