Images and impressions are the foundations of what we as a civilization see everday. This may seem obvious but from memes to new phrases we here from TV shows or movies or social media, both images and impressions do shape what people say everyday. Products are shown to us in a way that catches our eye, and the marketing and advertising team behind those products work hard to see what catches the eye and what doesn't. This also applies to the media, as people ranging from aspiring social media influencers to politicians seeking a position in government find what works for them and gets more attention, and what denies that. Images and impressions both have too much effect on people, because of the fact that the "catchy" ones stay in the mind, but don't actually inform the user of what the product shown is actually about.

Think about different commercials or advertisements for products, and think of which ones come to mind. The may be a commercial for a cereal brand, or a radio ad for a local company that is looking to expand their reach. I don't know about you, but just from a few minutes of thinking about it, I have six that come to mind, three of which have songs that will probably stay in my head for at least half the day. That is only from radio ads and commercials I remember from my childhood. Now think of that on a global scale, as I sincerely believe that at least two-thirds of the world has at least three products of which they can recite at least one of the past or present phrases, or can recall the product from looking at a partial logo. Products, companies, and celebrities of all sorts have done an amazing job at grasping our attention with our ever-changing opinion of what one likes and what one doesn't like day by day. It may be as complicated as what one's social and political views are, to something simpler to a preferred color. This goes into a databank of demographics and from there, those people in charge of getting the product out there figure out what is the best course of action to get people exposed to said product and get people to buy or endorse it.

The prompt said it best: "all too often, what we think we see becomes far more important than what really is." Now I'm not saying that our version of reality is actually detrimental to what we actually see, but in a way, we do live in a fantasy world. Everyone wants to live out some sort of fantasy, or has fantasized about it in some way, in which they are wealthy, famous, and happy, and I applaud you if you have not. In our subconscious, we'd all like to be at least wealthy, but we become content with our lives and live our lives the best way we can. That being said, we can at least imagine what our lives would be like in the way some celebrities live, and that comes from the image we see. We only see what's positive about everything, or at least most things, and don't see behind the scenes. The fact remains, we choose to believe that nothing is wrong with the world, as living a life where we see everything in a negative light is no way to live at all. Images and impressions mostly, if not always, endorse the product or message in some positive way, and if not, it's a negative way that makes it seem that there's a clear, obvious way to get to the positive side, to make life easier and one's life happier.

Research is the name of the game for products, but people sometimes overlook it, because it's easier to get a popular brand or something you've heard or seen a lot on any kind of media. This sometimes turns out to be bad, as funny or attention-grasping advertisements just show some entertaining phrase about the product that makes it a callback later on in your mind. It can be as simple as an energy drink that is promoted to keep you energized for longer, but when you actually research it, it turns out that it actually does that by having certain bad chemicals or too much sugar. The phrase "don't judge a book by it's cover" is popular for a reason, and definitely applies to advertisements as well. Just because something looks good and is entertaining to look at, doesn't mean it's a good product. And just because a social media influencer endorses a product with excitement and praise, doesn't mean they're not doing that for the money they get. 
