The United States of America is often called the land of opportunity based on everyone's chance to succeed.  Just how one achieves that success can differ greatly from person to person.  At heart of that journey is whether or not cooperation or competition is the better path towards success.  While competiton may feature a faster scheme to the top, it is cooperation that provides the safer and more long-lasting approach. 

Cooperation is essential to success because it allows you to act as a team where everyone can succeed.  We as people are almost always stonger in numbers.  Working together allows us to learn faster as we share ideas and knowledge with one another.  We can sometimes avoid failure altogether as we learn from past mistakes, but, more importantly, we have a safety net if we fail with others.  There is always someone there to catch us if we fall in a cooperative environment.  While the trek may be slow, it is consistent, stable, and has fewer restrictions for maximizing results.  

Competiton is a more hectic master.  It can drive one to achieve more in a shorter amount of time.  Those who win big may win very big because the nature of competition is eventually for the winner to take all.  It also fuels a passion that cooperation cannot duplicate.  Why competition ultimately fails is because for every winner, there is a loser, and even those at the top can be quickly knocked back down.  Success is often fleeting in competitive environments and can be an exhausting experience just to stay on top.  It is hard to keep succeeding in that scenario as there is a more likely to be a cap on what is achieved.

It is true that some of the most impressive inventions from electricity to the computer age came through the nature of competition.  Yet in the race to claim success at the top, they didn't always consider what the long-term needs or effects.  You got your money and plaudits now, but at what cost?  Cooperation on the other hand is a deliberate and slower process that is going to build stronger infrastrucure on the journey for what may come in the future.  Competition is sometimes a net-zero sum gain with one winner;  cooperation has plenty of room for everyone to succeed equally.  Cooperation is where everyone can be a winner and it can just keep growing and growing.
