You are, inherently, who you are and, at times, your personal possessions can speak to those parts of you that exist. There are times when we need to make purchases to fulfill a relevant need in our lives, but the desire to continue to buy things that aren't necessary can become overwelcoming and overindulgent. Receptors in our brain are triggered when we buy things, unfortunately, and this is not ideal when attempting to shift from a means of acquisition to a means of living within our means. 
We acquire things throughout our lives that are attributed to our experiences with things and with people. I own things that have a great deal of relevance to who I am and to my relationships with the people I have encountered in my thirty-six years of life. I do not still own all the things that have evoked feelings of happiness in me, but I still have memories of those items. A great deal of what I own has a personal story behind it.
Because of my personal experiences with my possessions, I would not wish for someone to criticize me for the things that I have. Items can tell a story, as they have a history. I believe we are all entitled to happiness, and if it's "possessions" that bring us that happiness, then I don't think people should feel it's their place to criticize.

However, I can understand that there is inherently no need for excessive things in our lives. Especially when there are so many people that lack the bare necessities to make life enjoyable. We are also wasteful people and the mass production and collection of things resulting in excessive waste is troublesome. There needs to be this delicate balance in a reduction of waste, while still allowing us the enjoyment of possessions.
Society is, overall, extremely materialistic. It is glamorized to own things. We see mass marketing of things that are projected to make us happier, but the acquisition of these items leads to the general consensus that we need more in order to be happy. This couldn't be further from the truth. We are reliant on these things, which leads many items to not have much meaning. Modern society has shifted from utilitarian to hedonistic pleasures more and more. We consume more food, more clothing, more electronics, more of everything than in generations past. We have more production of these things with the expectation that they will be consumed. This has lead to excess of everything as we are more unhappy and unhealthy that ever before. We have tracking systems and algorithms in place when we shop online that target who we are and our interests which leads to mass consumption of more. If only we could turn this off and refuse to buy into the hype that we need more things, versus just being happy with what we have.

Overall, I rather enjoy the things that have. I have a sense of awareness about my collection of items as well as recollections of the memories, stories, and background of these items. I tend to recycle and reuse items as much as is possible in an effort to get the most use out of them, then rehoming those items to avoid the collection of waste. I think education is necessary to demonstrate to people how they can live simplistic lifestyles. Another way to reach this goal is to commercialize the damages of excess versus the benefits of acquiring more things that we do not need. I have a personal desire for experiences over the materials I can purchase. I have learned, over time, that experiences hold more meaning and that items tend to break or get lost which can be a loss of financial means. This leads me to be more conservative with the money that I spend and the items that I buy. With that said, I love to purchase things for others. Again, I am learning that balance. I am learning that I am happiest when I am living in the moment. I don't enjoy shopping, as it no longer holds value or relevance in my life. This isn't something all people achieve. There are so many people that attribute happiness to acquisition of more things. Until there is an inner peace reached, this won't be resolved.

The appeal to minimalistic lifestyles is catching on and it is with that hope in mind that more people will buy into that way of life and attempt to reduce the amount of clutter that they have and don't need. There has been a movement of material possession to reduction of clutter. It has mental properties and benefits that make it desirable to many people. I personally agree and follow this movement and have decluttered my home by twenty percent. It's a great feeling and I would advocate this to others to make their life more enjoyable.

Encourage reducing, reusing, and recycling. Educate people on how to live a minimalistic lifestyle. Stop selling the dream that more is better. Promote the mental well-being of living a life free of materialistic possessions or, in the least, demonstrating the delicate balance between acquisition and limiting one's spending in an effort to buy happiness. 

Ideally, we could educate people without making them feel guilt for owning things. We could shift our focus to education about minimalism and avoid critiquing people. Knowledge is power, and kindness should be our default. Consumerism shouldn't be rewarded, as it is the production of these uneccessary things that lands us in situations where we have too much. Criticism should be left for those who continue to mass produce items in hopes of benefitting from consumers.
