Materialism, everyone in the current world running beind that.Infact most of the people are not even aware what's the purpose of life, example majority of the people in our world just thnking happiness it coming through when we buying  and spending the money.Let dive little bit deep about this to understand clearly what it is exactly.

Are you thinking is that true? extact answer is no, happiness is not like spending money and buying expensive things, in people's life many different expereinces are there. We can say lie most of the sucessful man in the world having enough money but still they are not happy? you know the resaon why? becuase they inital thought materialism is the only thing can make the life has happy any other thing modern society. Being too materialistic in life it will cause you the  pain and doesn't give happiness. Even buddha says 'deattach from the things and you will get the inner peace'. Most of the people in our modern society having many problems in their life do you know due to they are attached with the things, it's like holding or attached with things doesn't give a solution to your any problem in your life.We needs to be like a water flow state, in -order to be happy in your life.

I am not aruging here being materialistic in life is bad, no it's doesn't mean like that, i am saying if you take many sucessful people in life, they used the money wisely for good things rather than spending for the expensive items, and they mostly tried to invest their money and trying to make a double profit.It's matter about how we spending and investing the money in our life, it's also a major part of role playing for the happiness in life. And only things we have to use attach with the things only at needed times based our usage, once we done we have to deattach from the things. By doing this we can be happliy lead our life.

Many Spirtual people says, people who being materlialistic in their life, they will suffer like any thing, example in our modern life we can see many people are saying stress and mental health problems do you know why the resaon is? becuase root cause of all problems starts with money only. If we not use in good things will suffer like anything in the life, so in-order to pursure happiness you need to deattach and clam your mind like a flow.

Concluding to the topic, being materialism in modern society is not saying you should not, everything is with in the limit, untill crossing that we can be happy, so use the technology and the things like infulencer once done deattach from that, we will be save our life from unwanted mental health problems, using it wisely you can produce your energy and invest in useful things in the life.
