   "We are living in a material world, and I am a material girl" was famously sung by none other than Madonna. Is she correct? Is the world we live in increasingly materialistic? And, most importantly, have we gone too far? Do we care so much about our material needs and wants that we are missing out on other more important facets on life? Let's stop and consider this as we respond to the question, "Should modern society be critized for being materialistic?"
   In a word, yes. We have gone way too far in our pursuit and consumption of goods and services. We work overtime at work or in our home offices to increase our purchasing power in the enternal rat race of keeping up with the Joneses. Screens that continually connect us to the internet and various advertizing and social media platforms provides constant, steady pressure to buy this item or experience to stay cool. We can even search sites like Amazon and have countless items delivered to our doorsteps, often in 2 days or less. This constant barage of ads and influencer along with the ease of 1-click purchasing keeps us feeling insecure, and the response is to buy more, newer, better stuff to make ourselves feel important. 
   We have also lost some of our sense of connection and community that has kept human civilizations thriving for generations. Many cultures, ancient and recent, had town or city meeting places, markets, religous services, and friendly competitions to build up their communities. We still have some of the sports venues and occassionally cross paths with others, but we've lost a lot of that local pride that brought communities together to celebrate the good and grieve and console through the bad. Now we buy at big box stores, eat take-out, avoid churches, and binge watch our Netflix que. Sure we have Zoom, FaceTime, and now the Metaverse. These helped fill some of the recent isolation created by COVID, but these are tools that keep us from meeting face to face with other humans and having meaningful shared experiences together to move forward as a community. 
   Finally, we have lost sight of the old saying, "The most important things in life aren't things." Relationships are what make life meaningful, enjoyable, and worth living. Think back to your days as a teenager. Everyone has a story of a great time with friends-the legality of some may come into question. But those moments of shared experience are what make life great. 
    Some will say that we are now more connected than ever, and we are a material people with material needs. My response to the first claim is that we do have some amazing abilities to connect electronically with people around the world. This is truly an incredible feat, but are those connections life giving or life draining? How many of use feel more stress trying to procure a perfect online persona and maintain that projected self? The second claim is also true, but we have gone too far using the salve of consumption to help us through non-material struggles such as depression, loss of loved ones, and lack of communal connections. We need much less than we actually consume. 
    We have become to materialistic, and it is time to make some changes. Let's put down the screens that keep us unhappy. Go get lunch with an actual neighbor. Get into some hijinx with a friend. Make a memory. Have an experience. After all, that is what makes life worth living!
