   Being happy is something that a lot of people struggle to attain. Happiness can come from many different things and really depends on the person, but personally I have always found becoming happy and keeping a strong hold on that happiness is so much easier if you stay focused on one thing that you enjoy. I've also, as an individual, found that focusing on others happiness can only make finding happiness in your own life that much more difficult. If we would focus on ourselves and things that interest us we would be much happier overall, not everything in life is a competition. 

   I believe the reason for this is engraved in our brains almost as instinct. In the past everybody had a purpose that was much more transparent then today. People try to be someone they are not in our current age and have almost lost touch with their realities we have kept our noses buried in our little screens staying more concerened with others glamourous life styles. I belive social media has made happiness almost a thing of the past. Everybody is in constant competition to show off the coolest places they've vistited or things they have achieved then proceding to rub it in the simpletons faces because they are proud of having a fortunate upbringing. Everybody has talents or passions they have not discovered because they are so focused on others. We need to have more self confidence and stop being so focused on someone that is fortunate and beautiful, they'll never even know your name so stop focusing your energy on them. I've always believed that if someone else could do it, then I could do it myself.

   So in conclusion we as individuals need to begin focusing on ourselves more and finding something that they are passionate about. Even if you're not naturally gifted everybody has the power to do what they want. We are so much stronger then we give ourselves credit for. Happiness can come out of nowhere and blindside you which can make it feel like you don't deserve it, but if you focus on personal goals/self-improvement it will keep your mind distracted and you will continue to build skills and passion for whatever it is that you love doing. Pursuing what you love will give you an overwhelming amount of happiness even if you suck at first, but everybody knows that practice makes perfect. So stop focusing on others happiness and fortune and begin giving yourself more credit, because you are beautiful and so much smarter/talented than you give yourself credit for and god loves you so much more than you can even begin to imagine. 

   :)
