In the world we live in images and single impressions have far too much of an effect on people. When thinking about the way things are presented in this world, it's easy to forget that there is more than meets the eye. Images and impressions made from just a single moment viewing something can make you feel you know, or have a good idea of what you are seeing, but there is more behind the curtain so to speak. 

The first thing that comes to mind when I think of the effect this all can have on someone can be shown when looking to social media influencers. Influencers on social media have accounts on platforms where it appears to be nothing but fun times, beauty, and opulence when in reality all you are really seeing is a highlight reel. You are only seeing what they want you to see. This not only effects the viewer of the content, but the influencer as well. The viewer sees this perfect life being lived, and now feel that is the life they want to live not knowing the posts they are seeing are skewed into this false reality. The person posting now feels they have to mantain this false perception, and try to obtain this impossible they think they are seeing others live. 

This is also seen in the way products are marketed. When I go shopping with my children they are immediately drawn in by the most shiny, or the most colorful, and although adults don't actually go for the most shiny or sparkly, they do go for those items are that marketed in the most aesthetically pleasing way, most of the time with little to no knowledge of the product itself. All you know as the consumer is that this appeals to me, this has left me with a positive impression, I want it. 

In this world we live in that is so fast paced, it is important to remember not everything is a simple as it seems, not everything is as great as it appears. It is essential that you take the time to form an opinion on things on your own, to educate yourself, and to not just make a lasting judgement based on a fleeting image or impression you got on something you really don't have all the facts or information on the topic, the product, the person, whatever that may be. 


