Achieving success is a topic which many of us can understand. Most of us dream of succeeding, whether that be in our careers, in our relationships, or in our favorite hobbies. An important aspect to consider when one thinks about how that success will be achieved is whether or not it's more beneficial to compete or cooperate in order to ensure success. This writing will explore the notion that, while competition may be helpful and may produce some positive results, cooperation is the more appropriate course of action when trying to succeed in one's endeavors. 

Many people believe that a friendly rivalry or contest can be the motivation needed to push people to succeed in a variety of tasks. We see this in action with tasks such as designing products, creating new products, and acquiring more sales at a store. This makes sense; Some people are more motivated to succeed when in competition against others. The idea that they are in a race to beat their opponents drives them to work harder to produce the desired result and work faster achieve the end result faster and reap the rewards of the competition.  However, while competition may produce favorable results, common sense tells us that cooperation is the more logical of the two choices. 

Cooperation is a tactic that is more likely to result in success in a variety of scenarios. Cooperation is necessary to succeed in relationships. Cooperation can lead to the creation of better movies and TV shows. Cooperation can even result in more effective sales campaigns. Relationships, by their nature, require two people to come together and cooperate to build a happy, successful life together. If these same two people were to compete against each other, the odds are more likely that the relationship would fail. Movies and TV shows have teams of writers that come together and cooperate with each other to share ideas and craft incredible stories, a task that would not be quite as likely to succeed if each individual writer were to compete against their co-workers and attempt to create their own idea. Employees of a store can achieve more sales by working together to create an action plan and engage customers with all having the same goal in mind through cooperation, rather than one person "stealing the spotlight" and gaining the most sales through competition. When all employees succeed, they are more likely to be happy with their work and satisfied at their job. 

While competition is certainly appropriate in some instances, such as a contest for who can collect the most bottle caps or who can run the farthest in a marathon, the vast majority of competitive instances would be much better suited as a cooperative endeavor as opposed to a competition. When we put our minds together and collectively work towards a common goal, we are more likely to succeed than if we attempt to work solo and beat out those around us. 
