Materialism is prevalent in today's society. We all want the latest in technology, we all want the nicest house decor, and we all want that new pair of designer shoes. Materialism is rooted in American society, promoted, even, through excessive online ads, tailored products, and personalization. Corporations know Americans have a drive for ownerships and status, and will develop new techniques in ads and production to draw in as many customers as possible. Ads are now more invasive than ever and, for instance, rely on previous search results to influence viewers on the regular. During TV, during gaming sessions on your phone, even while you're checking your emails or searching Google. Looking up a recipe will now earn you a lifetime of advertisement on the latest in measuring cup technology.

Materialism is everywhere and it is eaten up by a lot of individuals in today's society. Both big corporations and consumers are equally to blame for this. One feeds the other, and the other thrives on their new purchases, that is, until the next big thing comes out. An upgrade or a new color option or even a new feature; just as long as it's something new, people will come out in waves to spend their income. And what happens to the old possessions? The older versions of technology now deemed obsolete? Donated, thrown away, recycled. The second hand market receives these and people with less disposable income can then benefit and put it to good use.

Materialism isn't limited to just technology, as my previous example would lead you to believe. It's anything which can be consumed and hoarded by the masses. As long as something exists, there's always someone who is willing to spend their disposable (or credit) income on it, just to have it. Functional objects or non-functional objects, people will give into materialism, just so long as it brings joy into their lives for a while. 

Is materialism necessarily a bad thing? I wouldn't say so, although some believe that it is. Acquiring possessions is a normal thing for a person to do, after all. It's when it's taken to excess that problems begin. Hoarding or going into debt for possessions is never a healthy idea, for instance. It can lead to unsanitary living conditions, finding oneself in a mountain of debt, or it can lead to an unfulfilling life; always chasing the next upgrade or trend. As with everything in life, possessions should be acquired with some restraint and never come at the expense of your wellbeing.

Possessions and acquiring should never be the most important part of one's life. Purchasing and owning may bring happiness, but these are just objects and should never take the place of responsibilities or being with loved ones. Individuals should focus more on the "needs" instead of the "wants", for instance. A new phone might be tempting right now, but further down the road, perhaps that 700 dollars might be spent on a larger, more important purchase. Saving for a house, saving for retirement, saving for a new car; those are purchases which might mean more to an individual than a simple upgrade. That healthy mentality could also lead to more purchases, the "wants", being put off to save for something larger. Before you know it, you've said "no" to many different impulse purchases and now have thousands of dollars reserved for something really necessary.

Materialism should be taken with a grain of salt, frankly. There are some who place high emphasis on owning and trends, and there are some who simply do not care. Both mentalities are fine in moderation and should be up to individuals how they wish to live their lives and where they wish to place their values. Simply valuing possessions is not immoral or evil; nor is wishing to live a minimalistic life. Neither is harming anyone, in normal circumstances. The only time, I believe, materialism should be criticized is if it comes at the cost of another's well-being, happiness, or health. Kids should not have to suffer without school lunches because their parents desired the new "i-Phone", for instance.

