Materialism. Consumerism. Nonchalant disposal of perfectly usable goods. These are all complaints and labels from the minimalist perspective; a perspective that is nothing more than ill thought through. In this essay, I intend to argue why materialism is a good thing and why modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic.

If you are reading this on an electronic device, it is likely that it is not the only electronic device that you own. It is likely that you overpaid for this device. But maybe not. Maybe you got it for free. Regardless, there is absolutely something that you paid for that was overpriced or that you sought the upgraded version of.  For example, look at your shoes. It is unlikely that you always wear the most-minimal type of footwear like slippers or flats. You probably own at least one pair of tennis shoes, straying from the minimalist appraoch and lifestyle--although you certainly do not need to; you could easily get away with wearing a rolled up piece of cardboard on your feet as a covering. So why would you pay for anything more than that? The answer: materialism.

Do not get me wrong. Although it is our right to be as wasteful as we wish with our money, time, and resources, we probably should not be. We should probably be a little conservative with what we choose to throw out, or fix, or replace, et cetera.  Those who waste a lot need a lesson about life.

The point is: no, modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Sometimes we need to be. Sometimes we just want to be. Sometimes we are materialistic just to improve our mental health. I would rather have three devices to read this on than having to kill a tree for a single piece of paper, for example.  Or being able to check my bank account on my almost-unnecessary cell phone instead of having to pollute the enviroment even further by driving to the bank or an ATM is useful no matter how materialistic it is for me to want a good cell phone. 

In short, I could argue this all day, but I am at more than double the word count in the prompt. But no, we should not be criticized for materialism. It is our right, it brings us joy, and so long as the appropriate recycling measures are in place and used, it is not a problem.
