     There is a famous quote that says, "If you want to go fast, go alone.  If you want to go far, go together."  Never has that been more apparent than in our society today.  Competition provides an important goal for our society.  But all of the greatest achievements have been made with a mixture of cooperation and competition.  In a complex world, cooperation is more likely to produce signifcant and lasting acomplistments.

     Competition is a part of who we are as a species and it provides an important motivating factor for achieving our best.  I was a long distance swimmer in high school, and all of my best times were when I had someone to chase and measure myself against.  Someone that was faster than me that I could mark and try to catch them the entire time.  But while competition in itself can lead to achievements, it doesn't exist in a vacuum.  With the competition you also need cooperation to do truly great things.  To continue using my swimming example above, while I swam my best times in a race when I was chasing someone down, I wouldn't have been in that position without cooperation.  While race days were about competing as a swimmer, training days are all about cooperation and support.  I work with my teammates, I work with my coaches, I work with the trainers to build up my strength, speed and endurance.  We all worked together to try to achieve the best possible times that I could.  Sure, some people during practice did form healthy competitions.  But if you're always competing, and not cooperating and working with anyone, you don't have the support system to do truly great things.  No one can do everything alone.  Sometimes as simple as someone holding a stopwatch on you, or getting you some water, or helping to improve your form.  Even in something like sports which is built upon competition, the cooperation I think is really what laid the foundation for greatness.

     To use another example of cooperation laying a foundation for greatness, I'd like to reference the space race the 1960's between the then Soviet Union and the United States.  The Americans and the Soviets were both racing against each other to put someone on the moon.  They were driving each other to do bigger, better and greater things with regards to space.  The Soviets were the first ones to put someone in space.  The Americans were the first people to put someone on the moon.  But between them both, they never would have been able to achieve such historic and important things without cooperation between their people.  Reading stories about the American attempts to put a man on the moon is simple awe inpsiring.  From the people that sewed the space suits, to the coding that went into the rocket software, everything had to built from the ground up.  It was truly a feat of human engineering.  Everyone was working together towards a common goal of putting a man on the moon.  From the people that guarded the bases, the the actual astronauts that risked their lives to go into space, everyone was a team.  America was united in its goal.  Yes, the goal was to beat the Soviets to the moon.  But that was only part of it.  It wouldn't have happened without the driving factor and the limitless imagination of mankind to touch another celestial body for the first time.  The race against the Soviets wouldn't have driven them to achieve so much in and of itself.  It was everyone, working together towards a common goal.

     Thus far I've referenced sports and the space race as evidence that cooperatin is more important than competition.  The last thing that I'd like to look at is entertainment.  We're currently seeing an explosion of the amount of content that we can consume from streaming platforms.  While for so many years cable television used to be the only way to have access to content, the internet has allowed creators to have so many new avenues to get content to consumers.  Netflix, Disney+, Hulu, Apple+, Paramount+, Peacock are just a few of the myriad of sources by which you can consume content now.  We are in the middle of a renaissance, an explosion of enjoyable content because they're all pushing each other to be better, to get more of a slice of the pie.  All of the content creators are trying to acquire as much original IP as they can, so they can produce more content, so that they can get more subsribers and make more money.  So it would seem that competition in the area of entertainment, is more important than cooperation.  But while competition is driving the current battles between them, you have to remember that there is a strong foundation in all of these companies thats allowing this to happen.  Each of these companies is a fictionally created person for business purposes, but its composed of hundreds to thousands of people.  People who are all working together to create content, to market content, and to convince subscribers to choose their platform.  While competition seems like its the driving force thats pushing everyone in the industry, its these well run companies, full of excellent people, all cooperating thats making it possible.  Netflix, even without competition in the industry, was acquiring the rights to show moveis and shows, and creating their own content before anyone else entered the game.

     The economy seems like another area where competition may be more important than cooperation.  In the United States, the citizens worship at the altar of capitalism.  The idea behind capitalism is that everyone working for their own selfish purposes, competing against one anther, leads to the best economy.  But we've seen on countless occassions how unchecked capitalism can actually lead to some of the worst possible consequences.  The example that I'd like to provide is of course, environmental destruction.  When capitalism is left to its own devices, and everyone is just trying to make the most profit at the expense of anything else, competing against everyone else, they try to find an edge anywhwere that they can.  Too often polluting and destroying the environment isn't internalized into the costs of things in an only capitalist society.  Meaning that if you want to get an edge on your competitors, you want to exploit the fact this cost isn't internatlized and you want to pollute and ravage the environment to the extent that it gives you a financial advantage.  This is where governments and cooperation come into play.  With governments, the people cooperating with one another can come in and play an important check to unfettered competition.  People, cooperating can come in and make the companies internalize the cost of ravaging the environment, so that the cost is paid by the companies, not the people.  Competition is important in capitalism.  But cooperation is just as important in the form of governments providing the struction of the game of capitalism so that its fair and regulated.  Just like with every example we've provided today, competition provides some of the motive, but ultimately cooperation provides the foundation.

     Competition is a lot like the paint job on a house, or the shutters, or the drapes, or any of the window dressing that catch the eye immediately.  Cooperation is the foundation of the house, its the structure, its the framing that provides the basis for which everything else happens.  Competition is important, I'm not saying that its not, but ultimately more important is the foundation that Cooperation provides in everything.
