  We live in a bright, colorful, and stimulating world that can be overwhelming and difficult to navigate at times. How do we know that what we're investing our time, effort, money into is worth it? I believe that more often that not people are investing their energy into things that aren't what they appear to be. We idolize celebrities and how they look, act and live their lives. We spend our money on clothing that will be out of style in a matter of months, try the newest diet, and endlessly consume without taking a look at what we're consuming. 

  People have lost touch with what's important in life. It seems to me that many people have gotten swept up in the capitalistic world that we live in. They care too much about what others think of them, how they're percieved. I don't think they're to blame for that though. I believe greed and capitalism have gotten the best of us--we're constantly being sold things at every turn. We're constantly shown the "ideal" and made to feel that we need to constantly be striving towards that. But what we're not told is that "ideal" is not tangible. Nobody can be perfect.

 It's difficult to tell if this problem is getting worse or better. Growing up in the 90s/early 2000s I remember the scandal that was Jessica Simpson being grossly overweight. Looking back now there's no way she weighed more than 130 lbs. But beauty standards have become more rigid in other areas so it's hard to determine if we've gone forward in this aspect or not. Plastic surgery is becomming commonplace and more and more stock is placed into how we look.

 Ultimately I believe this obsession with impressions and how we are percieved by others is driven by consumerism. We're being sold this version of reality--this shiny, perfect thing--that doesn't really exist. And until we fundamentally change the way our world works it will remain this way, it can't change until we start focusing on ourselves and not those around us. And I truly do not know how to get others to do that. That's an essay for another day. 

