Materialism is a hotly debated topic in our society, and throughout the world. Some people believe we have become too matierialistic, while others argue that we are only benefitting from modern advancements. There is a middle ground argument that can be made that materialism only becomes bad when it is participated in excessively. Whether or not a society should be criticized for its materialism depends on the level of matierialism, and who is engaging in materialism. We need not criticize an entire society, when it is a small group that are engaging in excess and wasteful materialism.

Materialism is considered a bigger problem in more advanced societies. These countries are where you will find people living with unnecessary debt, and an excess of waste. There is also materialism in under developed nations, where the wealthy participate in excess while the majority live in poverty. In both types of society, you can also find people who enjoy material things, but still live within their means and don't overly contribute to excessive waste. All of these situations must be taken into account when criticizing materialism. 

When we consider who is the most materialistic in our society, we have to look at the wealthy. These are the people who have more homes than they could ever need, more vehicles that contribute more pollutants, and more waste that fills our landfills. Their excesses also contribute to lack of resources for people living with lower incomes. Poorer people often make more of their belongings, hold onto things for longer, and repair things rather than replace them. These people will also take part in materialism, maybe for a special event such as a birthday, or maybe just because they find joy in it. Should we criticize society as a whole, given these major differences in consumption?

An argument can be made that all of society participates in the materialism of the few. People make the things that the rich buy, earning a wage that they then use to buy their own things. If all of society participates in this way, then all of society should be criticized. However, it is in the hoarding of material things that we find a reason to criticize, not in their simple existence and enjoyment. It is in hoarding that we find the greed, the waste, the pollution. Therefore, the wealthy alone are the ones responsible for excess materialism.

Some would also argue that materialism at any level is a problem. However, having the ability to have things and take pride in ownership of a home, or a car, or even clothing is not harmful. It can be fulfilling when engaged in at this level. Buying things, maintaining them, and using them to exhaustion is materialism, but doesn't result in excess waste, greed, and hoarding of resources.

Materialism exists all around us at different levels. The wealthy practice it in a much different way than the poor. It is the wealthy who buy and maintain more than they need, hoarding resources and causing difficulites for poorer people. It is in this excess that we find waste and harm. We cannot argue that middle income and poor people buying what they need and treating themselves sometimes is equal to this massive waste. Therefore, it is not fair to criticize all of society for the actions of a few. Materialism is a problem when it is in excess, and you will find that mostly among the wealthy. Rather than criticizing society, we should focus our criticism where the problem is.
