We live in a society where first impressions mean everything.  What we dress like, how we act around others, what we purchase, and how we judge others are all made on a first impression.  The media, advertisers, and poloticans all recgonize this, and try to use it to their advantage.  You'll see bold packaging in the stores, extreme statements made by polotical figures, and messages prestened to you by advertisers that will linger in your head long after the advertisement ends.  Even worse, in our multimedia today, influencers have become a thing and advertisers prey on them to push their products to you, the viewer.  While some will disclose that they've been paid by the advertiser, many will not and this leads to serious ethical issues.

Take for example watching a favorite YouTuber of yours, you notice they always seem to favor one product over anther, and most of the time you never really stop to think as to why it is they favor one thing over other.  That is, until you realize, they're doing so because that company is paying for them to use their products and paying for them to promote them.  While some do the honest thing and inform viewers of this, plenty leave these details out of their video, and instead, only have such information in the text below their video, the text they know most people will never actually read.  This leads to deception in advertising, and creates sales based upon dishonesty.  It's an issuse in society today, and it's far from only being done in multimedia.

Poloticans love to use deception too, they know how valuable that first imrpession is and they'll do anything they can to try to persuade you at first sight.  They'll make extreme statements to pander to their base, and do things they might personally not agree with, but follow through because they know it'll earn them votes.  Look at the current state of the Republican Party, they're having infighting in elections as to who is the best "Trump" canadate as they fight to win elections.  They're doing this because they know their base, and they know what drums up votes.  They're pushing aside their morals and ethics, to instead, create an image of what they think the voter wants becuase that's all that's important to them.  

From these two examples, you can see how crucal first impressions are on us and how they're used against us to exploit us.  Be it for votes, or for selling goods, the media, advertisers, and poloticans all know today that a first impession is everything and some are more than willing to bend the rules to ensure that they're able to get you, the viewer to do what they want.  This is why it's up to us to make ourselves aware that not everything we see in the figaturive mirror is real.  We need to understand when somebody is trying to sell something to us, and see when the words are coming out of somebodies mouth because they're just trying to say something that will make them favor you.  

We live in a world today that could easily be described as a cult of personality.  We're so glued to first impressions that once we've build an established relationship with a figure, brand, or product, we're almost glued to it.  We see this happening everywhere from brands such as Tesla, where customers are so loyal to Elon Musk, they'll basicaly do anything he says allowing Musk to do things such a minuplate the crypto market.  Or Donald Trump, the most famous cult of personality.  People stormed the captal for him, believe the election was rigged because of his words, and rebeled against a pandemic all because of a first impression.  Trump told them he was going to drain the swamp, presented himself as the anti polotican, and now holds control over millions upon millions of Americans.  That's how much an impression can have on a person.

Continuing with polotics, we can also speak of images too.  Think about the most iconic presidental campaign in your lifetime.  What comes to mind for many is more than likely that of president Obama.  An artist created a poster with his face in patrotic colors with the word change underneath it.  That image along with his first imrpession created a movement in America.  It brought a polotical figure that was very much unknown into the spotlight and made him not only a national icon in America, but all over the world as well.  That's an impression, and that's how much of an impact something so simple can have on people.

This is the same reason a simple post on social media can generate a buzz of conversations or even more, an entire movement.  People read something, and at first sight, form an instant impression.  Sometimes it's the right impression, and sometimes it's not.  We've seen it do good such in the George Floyd case, social media brought the crime into the spotlight, but it can also go in reverse.  Some will read a story that's missing key details, grow enraged, and start chaos off something they never would of had they seen all the details from the beginning.  It's all about impressions in this world, and we as a society need to make sure what we're doing is the moral thing.

For us the common citizen, that comes down to fact checking ourselves.  When you're on social media, before you share a piece of news, why not stop for a minute and think about what you're sharing.  Is the source you're using credible, is the news your sharing skewed to a particular bias.  Sure, at first glance it might speak to you, but do your homework, thnk about what you're sharing and what it could mean for others who read it.  Some might take it to extremes, and you have to be aware of this because of how quickly we all form impressions upon first glance fo something.

The key detail of everything, the moral lesson is that in life, impressions mean everyting, and our society is well aware of this.  While some use it for god, others can use it for harm, and some very much are doing just that.  We need to think about everything that is presented to us as well as everything that is said.  Some things might look or sound good at first impression, but it's best to not form an impression just yet.  Think about the words somebody said or the image you've seen.  Spend some time looking up the person or product, see if they truly do align with you because the person or thing you might think it is, might not always be true.
