       Happiness is something that every human hopes to achieve. It's often elusive and fleeting, and it seems like humans are constantly debating what creates happiness and how to have a life filled with it. While some people believe happiness comes from focusing on personal goals, others think it comes about from the happiness of others. I personally think happiness is something that comes from within, and in order to bring happiness to the world around you- you first have to find it inside.

       As someone that has struggled with my lifes purpose, what really makes me happy, and self love- it seems like time and time again I'm met with the same advice; you have to love yourself first in order to be happy. I think when I'm focused on myself and feeling good about where I'm at, I can then bring a lot more happiness from those around me. And while in darker moments I have had a lot of happiness come from those around me through wonderful relationships both personal and work related- at the end of the day I'm alone with my thoughts and happiness from external places is a lot more fleeting. Figuring out who I am, what work fulfills me, what passions I have- have been what has led me to some of my most meaniful work and relationships- but it started with self growth and finding happiness there.

      When I was younger I used to believe that I could get happiness from those around me and the places I went. I thought if I moved somewhere better I would feel happy. Or if I had a significant other I would feel happy. Or if I had better friends I would feel happy. Over the years I've tried all those things, and while they did bring me happiness, it wasn't totally fulfilling. For those who think that happiness comes from what's around you- I challenge you to think about how you feel in moments alone. Do you like who you are? Do you love your body? Do you love your mind? Can you bring yourself joy?

        I am in no way an expert, and I have a lot more time left in this world to grow and change my opnion on what happiness really means and how to find it. However, I remember I read an article a few years ago on the happiest places in the world and they had some things in common- a really simple, but beautiful existance. It wasn't the most populated, richest, cities in the world. It was where lives were slower, communities were strong, and it was less about the things people had- less about relying on the external factors. I think there is something to be said about that. Look within, find beauty in small things and yourself, and happiness will follow. 
 
