One's happiness only comes when one focuses on the others instead of their personal goals

Everyone would feel happiness when he or she pursued their goals and made a success on it after a long journel. But, the happiness may be at different degress either strong versue weak or lasting versus transient. All of these depend on how do you treat your goals during these jounels. The strong lasting hapiness only comes when one focuses on the hapiness of others instead of their personal goals.

If one pursues his or her hapiness by only focusing on their own affairs, everyone would not care of their fellows, and our society may be disassociated lacking the kindness and supportness from eath other. Everyone would become selfish and cold to each other. This kind of community will be terrible and unstable, which will eventually negatively affect everyone in this society.

One only can feel a real hapiness by helping each other, contributing to the community, and pursue their personal goals intergrated with others' goals. Only when your personal goal is well alignd with others, you can aquire many support from different sources, and finally reach your goals. This would make a benign competitive environment for everyone in the society, and result in a stable and mature community.

The people might say if everyone well takes care of themselves then the society would be better. It is better not to be involved in others' affairs, or you might be in the trouble. However, our community is united and the population is united. No one could survive isolated. Everything can be affected each other. When the gap of the incomes between the people from the different classes is too big to be controlled well, the society will become unstable and unsafe for everyone. This is why our society needs humanity and chararity such as different non-profit organiztions.

One only can feel real lasting hapiness after focusing on others' goals instead of their personal goals. We will eventually get the positive feedback from the society by this way.       






