Especially in the modern age, appearances can definitely matter more than substance to people. There are several reasons for this, but I would argue that the main reason is the ubiquity of the Internet. This allows not only genuine knowledge to be transferred at lightning speed all across the globe, but also disinformation and pure flights of fancy.

While it is definitely a good thing that being connected allows for the free and instantenous transfer of information, especially in scientific fields, expanding this capability to very subjective human relationships and emotions can have unpredictable and disastrous consequences. It is easy for people with any viewpoint in the world to find at least some people in the world that share their viewpoint, regardless of how crazy it may be (for example, flat-Earthers or people who believe the sun orbits around the Earth). These people than reinforce each other's views since they create the impression that their opinions are valid.

Conglomerations of these groups can then expand into other online communities and redirect them towards their views, further gaining converts to their viewpoints and tying in other unrelated fields. This has lead to some truly bizarre factions on the Internet, such as furries who are also neo-Nazis, and left-wing people opposed to vaccines in general allying with right-wing elements that support Republicans who are against vaccine mandates of any kind. Thus the two disparate groups can meld together in a way that seems logically improbable by sharing common images and creating a unified impression that may seem more legitimate to others.

What I have listed before are extreme examples, but this can be seen in mainstream culture as well. For decades, many conservatives have complained that the mainstream media is biased against them, but up until recently there was not much they could do about this. It is only in the past tweny years or so that Fox News created the image that there was an alternate way of looking at and understanding events in America that it became more common for conservatives to aggressively challenge what most people up until then would consider the 'conventional wisdom' about what was going on. This was further ratcheted up by the widespread adoption of the Internet across all people in America and the rise of social media in the past fifteen years. These factors, combined with an ever increasing amount of independent 'news' organizations on the right that don't even pretend to be objective has created an almost parallel set of realities in America, where image matters more than actual facts or substance.

Most major news organizations and general sites on the Internet hold themselves and the people on related forums to at least some standard of accuracy and code of conduct, whereas increasingly people aligned with former President Trump seem to have the impression that their words and beliefs can actually shape reality. Thus it matters not that there is no concrete evidence of significant election fraud in the 2020 elections - Trump says there is and there are a variety of rumors and innuendo floating around the Internet, so there must have been some. This is despite courts soundly rejecting all such claims and the mainstream media likewise not giving any credence to these theories. As long as the impression has been given that Trump speaks the truth, and this view is amplified by a variety of fringe sites and talking heads on television, this is what a significant portion of the population believes is reality.

What is surprising and somewhat distressing to people outside of this subculture is how deeply ingrained these beliefs can become once they have taken root. Once one is committed to this ideal, they can and will reject all evidence to the contrary, despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary. Thus a lack of evidence of election fraud just means that more investigations must be performed, years after the fact, despite repeated audits finding no fraud. Any attempts to debunk or investigate Trump's activities are automatically seen as politically-motivated witch hunts with no basis - despite the fact that Trump himself frequently claimed his opponents were engaged in illegal activities and wanted his allies to investigate his political enemies and their families while he was president (and he famously lead chants of, 'lock her up' in regards to Hillary Clinton while campaining).

This image of a heroic and unimpeachable leader can result in his followers being deceived in other ways as well, since they form the impression that everything connected to him must be good. A recent example is a clothing manufacturer replacing 'Made in China' tags with 'Made in USA' ones while specifically targeting this demographic with pro-Trump apparel. Likewise, there is a huge market for Trump-related paraphernalia that has not existed with any other sitting or former president as far as I can recall in my nearly four decades of life. In this way, Trump is the perfect encapsulation of the modern Internet-enabled era, where image is everything, and people can base their whole identity on a figure they don't know and who likely does not care a whit about them.

While it may be possible for some of these people to change their minds about him, I doubt it is possible for the vast majority due to this factor. While it is possible, though in my opinion improbable, for Trump to be held accountable in such a way that he actually suffers severe consequences it will likely not convince many of his followers that he is actually guilty. So many of these people are so invested in him on an emotional level that they will not disenage even when faced with overwhelming evidence that contradicts their views, in what I believe is some sort of feelings-based version of the sunk-cost fallacy. To them, admitting they were wrong once about him would be equivalent to admitting they were wrong about him all along, which would be too crushing for their self image to bear.

What I've talked about above regarding Trump is the most obvious and wide-ranging cultural movement connected to the image-over-substance phenomenon, but it all started small on various social media circles and smaller sites and message boards on the Internet. This demonstrates how relatively small and innocuous gatherings of like-minded folks, who necessarily don't share anything in common except and interest or obsession with one thing can eventually form together to create a wider movement of interlinked people that can shape the country. What is distressing about this to many people, myself included, is that in this way these people can gather a lot of power, and it may be difficult or impossible to dissuade them that the image that they have set in their mind is not actually the truth.
