People find happiness in a variety of ways. Each human being is unique, and something that makes one person happy may not make the next person happy. Some people find happiness in pursuing their own personal interests, whether their pursuit is focused on business or pleasure. Other people find happiness in focusing on the needs and desires of others, on helping others in a variety of ways.

I believe most people are likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal interests rather than other people or humanity as a whole. Human beings are inherently selfish. We come from a background of selfishness essentially focused on our own survival. This is evidenced by the sympathetic nervous system, the fight or flight response that has survived thousands, if not millions of years of human evolution. We must look after ourselves first. After all, if we are not well, we become unable to help others.

Many people believe the opposite to be true: people find the most value in life, and therefore the most happiness, from helping others. While it is true that, for most people, helping others will bring about positive feelings, the number of people who genuinely find happiness in helping others  as their primary focus without regard for their own personal happiness is relatively small. Those who build their life around helping others and putting others first may appear happy most of the time, but many of them have deep regrets about not pursuing their own personal interests. One cannot be genuinely happy while holding regret.

A parent may build their life around their offspring and seem happy most of the time, while they privately ponder how things would be different if they had done this or that thing that they believe would make their life better. A person may work for a non-profit or put in an unbelievable number of hours in a healthcare practice, a thing which has the potential to make some people very happy while helping many others, while exhausting themselves or overworking themselves to a point where they feel like their life is no longer their own, and at this point they may even lose their purpose altogether.

When people meet their own needs first, and when they find satisfaction within their own life, they will experience happiness. This is not to say that a parent should not put their offspring first, or that people should not pursue paths of helping others, but rather that people should make sure they are also taking care of their own dreams and goals, their own passions, along the way. This is the path to happiness.
