I think modern society should be criticized for being materialistic to a certain degree. There are aspects of society that on an individual level we can and cannot control and those various levels of control deserve varying levels of criticism.

In modern society there are things that for certain are deserving of criticism. Speaking from an American perspective there is a culture here that Ive seen first hand where people just buy things, throw them away and buy something new after with little to no regard on the impacts to the world they're causing. Things like buying disposable plates and forks so you can just skip cleaning dishes lends to this culture of waste as does planned obsolesence for electronic devices which is designed around getting people to spend more and more on consumer products. When I think of people in modern society just buying things because they can and not really using them or letting them go to waste I think those people deserve to be criticized. I think its well deserved seeing as it takes time and actual human life to create and work on the things being bought and just throwing them to the side in my mind is equal to ignoring that time spent and deeming it lesser than your own. This culture of waste is something that people have control over and bringing discussions to light over this matter is incredibley important!

The culture of waste also impacts people across the world as well and not just your local community. There are patches in the ocean filled up with plastic waste from people tht could care less how trash is handled once its out of sight. This then impacts the wildlife in the region and then in turn can impact the humans that live in that region as well. We're all a lot more connected than ever before in society in regards to communication, supply chains and travel so materialism that is wasteful should be something that gets heavily criticized because it will inevitably end up impacting your life whether you realize it or not.

On the flip side, one aspect of society that people cannot control is the need for money to really survive in modern society. If you want shelter, some food, or even just clothes you will need money to get most of those. You can scavenge and build shelter but you would be at an incredible disadvantage in comparison to people working jobs and making consistent money along with having access to much worse tools overall. You can knit and sew your own clothes, but that takes a lot of time, and materials might not be readily available to do so. Food as well can be scavenged or hunted, but in modern society the food supply is quite controlled so both wouldn't be as fruitful as say 400 years ago without money at your disposal. This is an aspect of materialism that people generally worldwide don't have much control over and while shedding light on it is good, being critical of people just trying to surivive seems like the wrong way to go about things since its more a need and less a want type of thing.

When I take all of these into account I feel like modern society should be criticized for being materialistic over things that we can control, and only for those things. Anything with regards to pure humanistic survival is something we should never criticize! I also belive that being critical of such things shouldn't be seen as a negative thing since at the end of the day everyone deserves have their voice heard and we're all impacted by each others decisions on this floating rock in space.
