In today's capitalistic corporate world, high-level executives put massive emphasis on the importance of competition in the workplace. They want leaders who claw their way to the top to lead the company to untold success. These executives and VPs look for confidence, aggression and alpha behavior. They want the best of the very best, and they're willing to burn through as many employees as possible to find those that stand the test of a hostile work environment. However, the success of the company as a whole relies on every employee working together to achieve common goals. Workplace competition can cause more damage than good if not moderated and properly incentivized. In this essay, I will discuss the importance of cooperation and how it's often swept under the rug in favor of the competitive "top dog" ideal.

It's easy to contribute the success of a team to one leader. This person has likely competed against others to reach their position and benefits massively from their ruthless reputation. They drive project deadlines and ensure all parts of the machine are well-oiled and functioning as they should. However, in today's corporate world, leaders are falling behind their employees in terms of knowledge and capabilies. When deciding a team leader, the candidates are usually chosen from those who haven't received education or new training in years. Leaders today are grandfathered up the chain because they're social, they've been in the company for decades or they have one specific skillset that would be difficult to replace without paying someone else. They compete against others who are in the same position, which excludes new talent that could make a huge difference in the company. 

Work rivalry or rivalry between leaders does not necessarily lead to success in the company. Pitting employees against each other won't improve morale if they both aren't being rewarded accordingly. Everyone at the company is on the same team, working together to improve the company's success. Striving to push employees as far as possible to be the "top dog" burns them out, ruins their motivation and drives them away from the company. Instead of tapping into a limitless resource of creativity and ideas, competition can ruin a new professional when they're just starting out in the field. This is especially harmful when the competition is only including those who have been at the company for years rather than those who may provide new insight and perspective.

Pitting professionals against each other doesn't contribute to the overall success of a team. It burns away resources and stirs up resentment toward the company. A healthy mix of cooperation and competition are necessary to maximize a company's success. Those employees who work their best to show their skills should be rewarded. Even if they aren't the very best, they should still be compensated for their extra effort and time. Teamwork and cooperation should always be pushed to ensure the office doesn't create a hostile work environment. 
