It is the 25th of December, Christmas morning! A time of being with family and gift giving. I run downstairs to the Christmas tree. I tear the wrapping paper off my gift and I am elated to see the "Bruce Wayne Custom Coupe". A simple toy but one I had been yearning for as a young lad. It was finally mine and the euphoria was a natural high that one does not forget. From a young age to adulthood, materialism continues to bring us a sense of joy. 

As we grow older we may out grow toys but our desire for objects does not cease. The object of affection just changes. We work hard for our salaries and in turn we want to have tangible signs of success for our sacrificed time. This can start off at a young age. We work a part time job. We work hard saving as much as we can for our first car. As adults we have more expendable cash. We may save up for a luxury or electric vehicle now. 

Some may argue that materialism brings about no true joy. Excess and decadence of the most abhorrent order. Look at the celebrities with their expensive vechicles, ostentatious clothing, and  excessivly large homes. These celebrities set a bad example of portraying a life full of excess as a good example while many others starve and are homeless. They give a false sense of a fulfilling life. These material pursuits cannot bring true fulfillment for an individual. We are chasing a false idol with our material desires.

But that simply is not true. One does not have to be a grossly decadent indivdiual in their pursuits of material objects. My father and I worked together to buy a large and expensive home for our family. A home can be considered a material object but it did indeed bring us sense of satisfaction and happiness. My grandparents' health was ailing. They could no longer live alone. My father and I saved to buy a larger home. One could scoff it was too large, too decadent. We sacrificed our time and effort to buy a larger home so my grandparents could live with us, we could take care of them, and we could all cohabitate together comfortably. Knowing our family was together and safe brought me a sense of happiness that rivaled that feeling of getting "Bruce Wayne's Custom Coupe" all those years ago.

We should not shame the pursuit of material objects. It is not always a bad thing. If we are not harming others with our pursuits and it is bringing us some sort of satisfaction and joy then there is no harm. Life can be difficult enough as it is we should not attempt to stifle another individual's joy. These material rewards can help us feel better about ourselves. Let's all live and let live. 
