Many debate the ideas of cooperation versus competition in regards to being able to attain success.  Competition can encourage people to be the best person they can be, and try their harder to achieve their goals. Cooperation, can seem like a more fair way of working on things, and can allow people to collaborate with others to get a sense of shared success. When looking at all the factors invovled in cooperation versus competition, cooperation is the biggest determiner of enhanced or increase success, simply because of the chance of less risks or consequences involved.
 
First, we must define cooperation. To cooperate is to work with others with the focus of attaining the same end or similar end results. People could cooperate with people they might not agree with, just to avoid arguments or failure of achieveing something for everyone. In a shared workspace, where cooperation is key, being able to share ideas and interests can allow not just one, but many people to achieve goals they want to get. To cooperate can also mean to settle differences for the purpose of achieving a task. For example, a group or team in a company might have disagreements about many things. However, if they are assigned a goal that can result in more money or promotion or prizes for everyone, this team might put away their differences and want to work together because of the promise of the awards for everyone. 

Next, we must define competition. To compete is to go against something or someone to achieve a goal. Competition can certainley encourage growth and an increase of skills. However, competition can lead to failure rather easily. Someone might overwork or overextert themselves while doing something competitively simply because they want to show that they are the best. They could lose friends or allies, because their competitiveness might drive them to do crazy things. There is not a shared goal much in play because the whole purpose of competition is to go against someone to achieve the goal that both of you are racing for.
            
In the end, competition can lead to failures that cooperation can lead to less of. It is probable to say people achieve more success by cooperation, because of less risks and the ability to form lasting relationships or to fix differences.
