Throughout history, people who study ethics have repeatedly returned to the question of whether happiness is best attained by pursuing one's own goals, that is "directly," or by putting oneself in the service of another. Some elements of our consumerist society tend toward the former conclusion. But this is just a misdirection to get people to buy products, that we can attain happiness by getting what we ourselves want. In actuality all research bears out the latter conclusion: to be happy one must take other people's happiness as one's goal.

It is true that people are happier when their basic material and social needs are met. But this only provides a "baseline" of happiness. Once this baseline is assured, should you continue pursuing your own happiness? Research suggests that once a certain level of financial security is achieved, for example, then further attempts at making money provide only diminishing returns. Thus, the happiness to be achieved from pursuing material gains has a natural limit. And on a common sense level we know that the man who says "I have gotten everything I want" really lacks something; literature is full of examples of the miserable rich man or bored tycoon with his empty accomplishments. Of course much higher levels of happiness are possible, and are even commonly attained. Of course something further must be done. What exactly?

Both psychological research and the example of all major religions shows us that the path to a higher degree of happiness is to be found in serving others. Among the ways that this manifests are displaying loyalty and servitude to one's family, charity towards the needy, and productive work towards the needs of the society. Even displaying forgiveness toward wrongdoers may be said to be an act of charity, a gift for the happiness of others, or for the society as a whole. Research bears out the notion that contributing towards these efforts leads to a higher level of happiness and life satisfaction.

It might be objected that if the motivation for these acts of charity or service is the pursuit of one's own happiness, then this too is just a selfish pursuit, another personal goal. But although that may provide the motivation at the outset, ultimately the result, and the mechanism, is the same: happiness which ultimately stems from the satisfaction of having made another happy.

While pursuing one's own dreams is necessary to establish a certain level of personal happiness, this cannot be surpassed except by then working towards the happiness of other people. If we do not do this, and continue merely to pursue our own ends, then stagnation follows.
