"Its better to give than to recieve." We hear that line just about every year at Christmas time. The thought being, while  recieving gifts is nice, and brings short term happniess, the long term happiness you may recieve isn't the gifts you get but the gifts you give. Focusing on the happiness of others will bring you happiness. And its true, for three reasons. 

First, you are only one person, the happiness you can bring to others is infinite. Think about it this way. You are 1 person, there are billions of people on this planet. You could spend your entire life focusing on your own personal goals and life and maybe find happiness. Maybe. Or, you could devote your life to volunteering, missionary work, providing pro bono legal or medical services, or whatever it is your are skills are in and help countless others. That happiness and satisifaction you bring to others, while hopefully worthwhile and fulfilling to you, will reap dividends for others. Especially as it relates to kids, as adults our lives are already pretty much decided by our job and personal choices. But a kid has their whole lives in front of them. Focusing on their happniess, like going to Space Camp, or having an extra scoop of ice cream, is to see their unadultered joy in life. Its innocent and loving, and as a parent there is no better happiness for me than seeing my kids happy. 

Second, by helping others you pay it forward and create a cycle of others helping other people. If you focus on someone's happiness, be it a close friend or a complete stranger, they may do the same thing for another friend or another stranger. This "pay it forward" mentality may create a critical mass of helpful people in your community that focuses on everyone else, such that someone will help you and focus on your happiness one random day precisely because you helped in the past.

Last, your personal goals may conflict with other people's goals/happniess. I want to have a million dollars and a beautiful life and be left alone and not be bothered and and and.... that list could go on for a while. I want to have all those things, but at what cost? Me being rich form winning the lottery means a lot of people spent a lot of money for nothing, I want to be left alone but I still want my trash picked up and mail delievered and groceries quickly scanned etc. How can all of my goals really comport in society? This is not to say your goals don't matter, but think about where they come from.... are they coming from a place of want, need, or simply just because? Most of our goals in today's society come from a place of want. It is simply easier to help empower other people do well in their jobs while recognizing that everyone has issues (be it mental, physical, lonliness, family issues etc.) that you may not know is bothering them. Acts of kindness can go a long way helping people feel better where they hopefully pass it on.

In sum, focus on the happiness of others and you will be happier yourself. 


(And sorry I had to leave the page at the beginning to stop my email alerts when writing this, apologies!) 
