there are many definations to how someone finds happiness. Some believe that happiness comes from within, others believe on focusing on the happiness of others, others still believe that happiness can only be achieved when you enjoy life and find it along the way. People are more likely to find happiness when they focus on their pesonal goals rather than their on the happiness of other because by working on your personal goals; One can  achive happines faster, easy, and on the own terms than if they try to find from others.

Finding happiness is a large majority of people life goal. When you try to find happiness by focusing on your personal goal, you can find happiness faster if you were to work on your personal goal. When you make a personal goal you can tailor make you goal to make it suit your needs. By doing so you get the benefits of having a goal to work towards and because it is tailor made it is on your terms. How fast or slow will depend on how much you want to reach that state of happiness. Another reason that working on our personal goall to reacch happiness is better is because easier than fidning it from other people.

Having to depend on other people for your happines might be much more rewarding in the long run, according to some people. It is soo much harder to accomplish that having  a personal goal. You cannot read people mind, people can change and their direction might not be suited for your life or your life experience. Having to work with someone for their happiness so that you can achieve your happiness is a lot of trouble for the hope that doing so might give you happiness.

Lastly finding happiness on your own terms might be the best benefit when looking for happiness. Life is vey difficult, and different for everyone. It is hard to predict what life has to trow at you. Yoo can lose your job, a family member might die, or something unexpected can happen like an earthquake that changes your life. Having the flexibility to work with what life throws at you can be a huge benefit to you finding you happiness at your own schedule. Some people might think that finding happinness in your own personal goal might be selfish. While it might look like that at the end of the day, it your life you are living and no one else. Sometime you have choose youself over yourself.

While finding happiness might seem like a huge endevor. Taking the first steps is always a good way to walking into the right direction. That is why focusing on your personal goal to find happiness is the better option than finding happines in other people becasuse it is faster, easier, and works for you when you need it do. That is why finding happiness though your own personal work is a much better choice that fidning it by working for some else's happiness.
