Our modern culture has placed a disproportionate importance on image and impressions.  While advertising began in earnest in the 1950's, it has exploded onto the scene with the advent of social media, streaming, podcasts, and all other forms of communications readily available in our hand via our smartphones.

Having been born in 1956, I have witnessed this aggressive change throughout my life.  I started out watching a small black and white TV, with 3 channels and short quick advertisements that I may or may not have paid attention to.  The news was only 15 minutes, then increased to 30 minutes.  I am now bludgeoned to death with noise, action, and urgings to buy at least five products during a football game commercial break. The news cycle is 24/7.   It's too much.   Commercials and talk shows are trying to convince us we are not enough as we are.  We need a new phone, new insurance, new political ideals, a new moral compass, new everything. We are told to "do better" as prescribed by influencers, politicians, movie stars, singers, athletes and the guy down the street posting on Facebook.  Are these urgings actually important in our day-to-day life?  I am experienced enough to know that they are not.  However, a younger person or a person with little self confidence could  easily be persuaded by what they see, hear, read on a minute-to-minute basis.

Some might say just tune it out, but it's not that easy.  I remember how I was affected in my 20's by fashion, makeup, and career advise. It was not until I was much older and wiser that I realized what marketing was doing to all of us - controlling our minds and actions. Once you realize you are a target, you can take initiative to minimize the shot, but there are so many people who think the best of everyone and everything and cannot distinguish when something is being helpful vs. being manipulative. 

I'm not sure where all this will end.  I know when I'm watching TV, I turn the sound down during commercials.  If I see a post on Facebook that seems too "one way", I try to research if there are any counter arguments.  We all need to be aware and question everything.  Unfortunately, that is exhausting and time consuming but the alternative is being drawn into every conspiracy theory, product placement or support for incompetence that barrels down the information highway into our consciousness. 

