  Materialism is something that becoming increasingly more popular within our society as things have shifted. There used to be more isolated rural living and now there are a lot of sprawling urban areas where we are subjected to constant advertisements and messages about what material goods we should want and have. A lot of people want to own status items that indicate that they have a certain level of prestige and wealth. I believe that modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic. 
  Materialism where people dedicate a large part of their life to purchasing and using a lot of material items is very prevelant in our society. People are always told to want and work towards having more items even if they already have everything that they need. A lot of people throw away items that still have use and value in favor of purchasing the newest model or color instead. The reason I feel that society should be criticized for this is because humans have the capacity to think for themselves and to decide what values they want to have.
   Even though people are surrounded by advertisements and other things to make them want new goods, they still have the option to decide if that is right for them. A lot of people let other people decide for them what they should strive for in life instead of deciding for themself. In order to acquire money and possesions, people have to work for them. A lot of people choose to work long hours or to work at home after hours as well in order to earn enough money for the material goods they want. This often takes time away from things that are actually way more valuable like spending time with family or having experiences like going on walks or to events that will create lifetime memories. 
  Some people would say that there is no harm in pursuing wealth or material goods, because people should be allowed to determine for themself what they value and want to do. This mindset is harmful though, because there are large amounts of waste put into landfills because perfectly good items are discarded. There is also more crime, because parents are more frequently leaving their children home alone in order to work to acquire items. There is also increased shoplifting by juveniles as they try to steal items in order to fit in with their peers, so they can have whatever the current popular item is. People might also argue that their has always been some level of materialism in society,because people always want and covet what they don't have. I agree that people hae probably always yearned for items they don't have, but I don't believe it is on the same level that it currently is. A lot of people used to live out on farms in the 1800s, so they rarely went to town and went shopping. A lot of them might receive a catalog like one from Sears that had items they wished to purchase, but they were not inudated with new things constantly. Then we had World War 1 and World War 2, and people learned how to use the limited items that they had resourcefully especially during the Depression. A lot of people from that generation are still incredibly frugal. 
  Other generations have shown that you do not have to value or succumb to materialism. That is why it okay to critizice modern society for being too materialistic. At any point, people can choose to say no and that they do not value money and items more than other things. They can choose to live a lifestyle that is still rich but not because of the items that they purchase or the money that they earn. Just because a large portion of society values something, that does not mean that you should as well. It is important to think for yourself and to choose your own values and lifestyle. Large corporations make products and base advertising on what they think consumers want. They also decide how to treat employees as far as time off including sick and vacation time. If more people stood up to corporations, things could drastically shift in our society. People could show that they prefer to spend time and money on experiences with their family, and companies would try to shift to accomadate people and what they are showing that they want. We are also one of the few countries where most people do not take their accrued time off, or they still work when they are supposed to be on vacation time. If less people were willing to do this, corporations would have to treat their employees better where there is not the mindset that you are not a good employee if you take the time you have earned off. Individual people have a lot more power and control over their life than they realize or utilize. 
