Appearances are important. First imperession is often based on how something or someone looks rather than the complete understanding of their inner qualities. For this reason, we are taught from the very young age to pay particular importance to how we look, especially when meeting strangers or people we want to make good relations with. But we have to ask ourselves, do images or impressions of us are being given undue importance? Are we giving too much credit to superficial looks when we should be more concerned about the qualities which behind the looks? Are we becoming a society which is ignoring the real person and rewarding the ones who just look better?

I believe the answer to all these questions is a resounding yes. We are definitely a society now which judges a book by its cover to use an often repeated analogy. We do not take the time or effort to make sensible choices based on careful evaluations of people or products but are being influneced more and more to make choices based on looks and first impressions. Advertisers recognize this, conmans recognize this, politcisns recognize this, corportations recognize this and so on. This then leads to a cycle where all those who want to impress us, focus more on how they package themselves to us for better looks, rather than do the tedious work of winning us over with their hidden but more important characteristics. Who is the winner when this happens? Certainly not us. We are being won over with an inferior but a shiny product while we can have a much better product only if we can ignore the obvious glitter.

There is though, an argument to be made as to why this happens in the first place and whether it is actually beneficial to us. Those who package their product to sell us based on its looks, use the reasoning that most products are more or less the same in how they work. If that is the case, then the users are not losing much in terms of functionality or benefits, however, the sellers have to make the product much more appealing through their looks to sell them better when there is a cutthroat competitions in most products or for that matter in almost any other field. There are very few geniune entertainment talents, rest are more or less at the same level of skill but what diffrentiates them are the looks and how they sell themselves. But is it really the case? Are we really this naive to assume that most products are similar anyway or that there was not much to diffrentiate between entertainers or politians in the first place?

The answer to these questions is a definite NO. There can be large differences in similar products when they are regularly for extended periods of time as are when the politians actually take command and start acting or not on their promises which seemed similar to all other politians. Hence we lose out when we favor a product based on how they look and not how it will work when used extensively or how people will perform when given the power and responsibility. This is why it is so much important that we reduce our reliance on images and impressions we are sold when making decisions and take the time and effort to make more informed choices.
