Who doesn't love a good shopping trip. It can be therapeutic, fun, and at the end of the day, you end up with something fun for your home. However, is stuff really what brings us happiness? Materialism - getting physical items and spending money for them as a source of pleasure can often be criticised as shallow and ultimately not a primary motivator for our lives. I believe that while there is a certain need for possessions and spending money, and that there can be joy that is acquired from that, that modern society is not wrong for being critical of materialism.

Steven Jobs in some of his final interviews before he passed seemed to reflect this. As one of the richest people in the world (and a man who had also become famous, too), Steve Jobs reflected that what really mattered was relationships. While materials things are not inherintly bad, it is far too often that the material item BECOMES the goal for people in life, rather than a tool and a means to enjoy things that matter much more. Things like family, spirituality, helping, serving, and living life for something that gives lasting purpose. 

Material things are not inherintly bad, however, when those material items become primary, they can be classified as an idol. Good things when they become the main things become horrible things. We should not forget that if we want a fancy car, that the car itself is not the goal so much as the relationships, connection, encouragement and experiences that you can enjoy by having the car as a tool for that. 

Some may say that it is not a bad things to make material items a primary thing. What harm can come from loving stuff? While they may bring temporary satisfaction, things will never last, and never has anyone felt that they ever have "enough". Some say the material world is all there is, but that borders on nihilism, and then what is the point of that, even.

In conclusion, society should continue to have a healthy level of criticism of materialism. We should strive for more. At the end of our life, once we die, what does it matter how many pairs of shoes or nice watches we had. What matters is connection. What matters is relationship. Let us not put material goods above those, but use possessions as a tool to get those.
