Happiness Thrives by Making Others Happy

Happiness is something for which we all strive. It might be called the Holy Grail of existing. Yet it is elusive for many of us. A central question is, "Whose happiness?" Do we care more about the  happiness that we can attain for ourselves or the happiness we might help bring to others. I believe the two are connected, but in bringing joy to others, we achieve the greatest happiness for ourselves.

For example, consider parenthood. Those who have children are not always happy in the moment because children are demanding. Poop, colic, spit-up, fighting with siblings ... All of those things are unpleasant. Yet in meeting their children's needs for many years and ultimately raising strong competent adults, parents experience their own happiness. Some would argue it's just not worth it because children grow up and leave, but they shouldn't be parents if that is how they feel. They fully realize the rewards of their investment.

A second example would be teaching. Teaching is known as a demanding but rewarding profession. Teachers don't always feel like teaching. They have their own problems, and some days, those problems need to be bracketed off and set aside, and a smile needs to be brought up from the depths of one's psyche. This is often a difficult thing for teachers to make happen. Yet they do it, and they watch their students mature, some of them maturing into teachers themselves. This is gratifying and brings satisfaction and happiness to the teacher. Many people think teachers are selfish for wanting more money, but they don't understand the extent to which teachers put their students needs and happiness above their one.

A third example would be pet ownership. Pets are wonderful, and we aquire them for various reasons. Yet they are also a lot of work. Seeing to their needs can be taxing, sad and even frustrating. Yet when we see our pets sleeping and snuggled and well-fed, this brings happiness to the giver. We know that we have cared for them, that the vomit we stepped in this morning when it was dark was no fun for them either. So we clean it up and ask them what they want for breakfast, pausing to brush them and give them extra pets because we love them and value their happiness. Some say the loss of a pet and the heartbreak it brings argue against this, but anyone who has truly loved a pet will tell you their pet's happiness was their happiness.

Thus we come full circle to our thesis statement -- that the pursuit of one's own happiness is more fully realized from the satisfaction one gains from spreading and engineering happiness into the lives of others, whether those others are human or animals. And so we have a philosophy that would make the world a better place if more people adopted it. People would be happier if they focused on the happiness of others, and the world would be a better place.
