Have you ever been feeling down and your friend called needing help with something at their house? You went to help your friend. Eventually, while helping your friend you begin joking and laughing. You realize you are no longer focused on yourself and why you were feeling down. Without knowing it, your friend has helped you snap out of a melancholy mood. This is an example of how focusing on someone else's needs can make you feel better about your own. Some people believe the road to happiness is to put more focus on themselves and their own personal goals. I believe that the road to happiness is to help others, focus on what other people need, and spend my time trying to make others happy and/or their lives easier by being there for them. 

On a day to day basis I try to spend my time helping others and doing things for others. One friend might need me to spend time with her child, so she can have a much needed break. Another friend might want me to go for a walk with her to keep her company. I might spend time visiting with my parents or doing something for my kids. For my kids, I make them treats, take care of their dogs, or just visit them. People appreciate what we do for them. They even appreciate the simple tasks. When I do something for someone else it makes them happy and it makes me feel happy too. 

Knowing that helping others and doing things for others makes us both happy makes it easy for me to believe what I feel is the road to happiness. The road to happiness is doing for others. It's not just focusing on my own goals and my dreams. When I do for others and it makes me feel good, then I'm more likely to achieve my own goals because I'm happy. Being happy  makes it easier for me to focus on my goals and achieve them. When your heart feels happy then you work happy too.  If I sit around and sulk about what I need and want then my heart feels sad. Sadness can be debilitating.  For these reasons, I feel that the road to happiness is focusing on the needs of others and helping them achieve their goals. 

