Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic, per se, because human beings are naturally materialistic. We are material beings with material needs that seem to be programmed to gather things. That said, modern society has become overly materialistic in that it weighs material assets so much more highly than non-material assets that these other human needs are being neglected to the point it is hurting both humanity and individual human beings. Furthermore, the pursuit and creation of all this material wealth is using up the world's resources.

A society that focuses on material desires, teaches its people that wants are needs. What we think we need now has grown rapidly over the past decades. For example, first the middle class wanted to have a detached garage with a single stall for their single car. This became a need for an atatached garage. Then it had to have 2 stalls. In my city, new middle class houses are expected to have three car garages because familes have so many vehicles. 

Master bedrooms are now master suites. Rentable storage units are springing up everywhere. Families I know have muliple televions and multiple streaming devices. In my childhood, we had one television we all shared. We had one car. This was not unusual. It was the norm. People were connected to each other through sharing things like TV watching and rides in the car. More things mean less sharing and less connection. People need connection to people. Our collective mental health has sufferd from being diconnected from others.

The world is limited in its resources. This focus on acquiring things is using them up. Much of what we use ends up in landfills. What will be left for future generations when our limited resources become dangerously scarce? There is no planet B.

As these things create a more stressful environment and more anxious people, people turn to their built-in drive to collect things in an attempt to lessen fears. And the cycle goes on. We are being dmaged by this cycle and must find ways to reak out of it before we have irreparably damaged our wolrd and ourselves.
