This writing assignment asks the question, "Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others?" This is a silly question. The answer is obviously and firmly the former. It is natural for people to be happy when they are doing what they want to do, not doing what they think they ought to do or doing what they were told to do. I am happiest ignoring people. Most people are not interesting anyway. I make the most progress just minding my own business, doing my own thing, being myself.

People who live for other people are the most miserable people. My mother is like that. When I ask her what does she want to eat, she turns around and asks what do I want to eat. Liberals are like that too. Liberals think their goal in life is to always think of the political correct thing to say, to never offend anybody. So they waste their time believing they are saving the world but are actually self-destructive. Have you ever met a happy liberal? I haven't. They never laugh at jokes. They walk around with a serious look on their faces all the time, focused on correcting social injustice, even where injustices don't exist. This kind of external existence is unhealthy. It's a kind of mental illness, always pleasing people. They place their personal worth on public approval rather than personal development. These are sad people. Even when liberal policies are shown to hurt the poor and minorities, they persist in their delusion because their self-image depends on it.

So happiness definitely comes from pursuing own goals. We are lucky to live in a country where we have the freedom to pursue our own happiness. Those who want to destroy that freedom have mental issues. They have issues with their personality, with self-confidence, with insecurity. They believe if they do all the things they are told to do, then they can be happy. But that never happens, because they have ignored their true selves. It is a sad thing to see that in whole generations.
