Happiness and the pursuit thereof is at the core of the human experience. It is a state we all seek, to one end or another. Whether this is best achieved by aiming for personal, selfish goals or by pursuing the greatest good for other people is an argument as old as our species itself. I posit that positioning these two paths as diametrically opposed creates a false dichotomy. One can attain great happiness without sacrificing either on the altar of the other.

Human nature leads us to desire strict definitions, black and white thinking an almost unavoidable side effect of the intensely acute pattern recognition skills we evolved over millions of years. Rigid religious and cultural traditions have fed into this tendency for millenia. While a narrow-mindedly pious man might say one must categorically deny one's personal desires, wellbeing, and natural curiousity to focus on a "godly" good for the sake of society, a debaucherous hedonist may tell you nothing outside of your own wishes has meaning nor can it make you happy.

I do not believe that either extreme has the right of it. Many of the things we seek for our personal happiness also contribute positively to society, such as the pursuit of knowledge and truth. Similarly, many of the actions we take to better the lives of others better ours as well. There is great joy to be found in serving your community, spreading kindness and goodwill. And we often benefit ourselves from putting love and care into the lives of those around us. We also add a great deal of value to the lives of everyone else when we come upon new thoughts and ideas during our personal searches for insight or even during the course of less intentionally-thoughtful experiences.

The best way to achieve happiness and a life of real substance is to be true to ourselves in every way that does not harm others. We must deny certain urges, such as irrational desires for vengeance or violence, for the good of all. But temperance is the name of the game, not full-scale denial of all that makes us unique and ourselves. Similarly this best path also involves doing the most good you can for other people (and for the planet itself) without taking it too far by spending every single ounce of energy we have on everyone except ourselves. It's all about balance.

Balance is one of the most difficult goals we may set. Though it brings us incredible joy and fulfillment, it requires constant reassessment and readjustments. It necessitates a great deal more active thought and analysis than settling on a more strictly-defined path. You can never simply say, "This is enough. I have thought it through completely and have a set course for the rest of my life. My mind can be at ease as I see through the actions upon which I have already decided." In this way it is quite challenging. The rewards we reap from it, however, are more than worth the trouble.

What is it to be too selfish? Too self-sacrificing? These are questions we must ask continuously from the day we are old enough to grasp them to the day we expire. They are not simple... and that is what makes them so beautiful.
