 In society today, people work hard and need something to find enjoyment in. Buying a new outfit, the newest cell phone, a car, or anything else like this can bring a great deal of happiness to many people, and people shouldn't feel ashamed that an item can make them happy. People are expected to have certain items now-a-days, so the term materialistic should be reconsidered as well. I believe that society shouldn't be critisized for being materialistic, but should also find value in experiences.

In modern society, it is almost unheard of to find somebody who isn't materialistic. Finding value and happiness in items is expected. People often have busy schedules and struggle trying to find time to do activities that they look forward to. It is much easier to gain happiness in buying an item than to wait around until you can set aside time to actually go out and do something. Also, when everybody has certain items, such as tvs, computers, cell phones, cars, etc., it can bring a sense of jealously when you don't have these items. 

Some people believe that money can't buy happiness and that materialism is ruining enjoyment in doing things, rather than buying things. While this opinion may be true for some people, overall it doesn't hold very much merritt. Money can absolutely buy happiness, as well as cover the cost of living and make somebody comfortable. It is not a neccessity to have an expensive coffee pot or a tv, but it may make somebody's life better and easier. If this is the case, why should somebody sacrifice their happiness just so they aren't being materialistic? Also, in the times of Covid, not being able to leave your house provided no reasonable way to find happiness in anything other than material items.

Overall, materialism isn't always a great thing, but society in general shouldn't be critisized for being materialistic. It is completely up to each individual on how they want to spend their money and if that includes buying more stuff, then that is okay. Spending time with loved ones, traveling, being outside, and other things like this are great at making most people happy, but sometimes buying items can have that same satifcation, and that's okay. 
