People attain the greatest depth of happiness when they focus on the happiness of others. In this instance, a primary focus on the happiness of others simultaneously fulfills their own happines as well. Most volunteers, for example, report a sense of happiness from helping others than simply cannot be attained in other areas of life. The Dalai Lama, who meditates three to four hours per day, has always emphasized that one's goals should focus on altruism and forgiveness because these attributes enable individuals to transcend their own selfish desires and goals. Mother Theresa worked tirelessly in very poor conditions because she recognized the value of human beings living in the slums and wanted to help as much as possible. Siddhartha, ultimately the Buddha, went from a materialistic, selfish youth to an enlightened, unselfish adult. The Dali Lama, Mother Theresa, and Siddhartha are extreme examples of the value of altruism irrespective of their individual religions but the ideas they espouse (and espoused) are true.

People seem to be generally quite selfish and they would tell us that their happiness revolves around reputation, fashion, likes, wealth, popularity, and social approval. The problem arises when someone who has attained his material goals still feels like there is something missing. How, we wonder, could a billionaire ever be unhappy or depressed? It seems impossible because we haven't been there and done that. These materialistic goals seem wonderful if accomplished but they do not ever make people happy in the most genuine and spiritual sense because they do not last. Even a billionaire who gives vast sums to charity may not feels any better because he is detached from this giving in a personal sense. In sum, there are different levels of happiness that range from the most base and materialistic to the most lofty and altruistic. A materialistic person, however, cannot even envision how they would feel if they were truly devoted to personally giving to others, because they cannot comprehend it for the moment. This type of person would therefore answer the question with a goal of monetary success, an expensive car, and a large home. My answer, as I have seen from personal experience volunteering at an animal shelter and at the local food bank, is that fulfilling the happiness of others is extremely rewarding and beneficial to my own happiness and my own self-image. Working for a worthy cause such as food for those in need or helping to abate the negative effects of global warming is priceless and enduring.

The average person will never be like a spiritual leader of the magnitude mentioned earlier, but even taking the unselfish, caring approach in a smaller way is meaningful and leads to greater happiness. To focus on the happiness of others is a move in the positive direction for a person's mindset and overall well being; to focus disproportionately on personal goals is a move in a negative direction.
