Appearances more than ever are having a negative effect on people's mental health. In an age where people are becoming more and more dependant on instant graitifcation, the opportunity to take advantage of appearances becomes available. In today's digital world and 24 hour news cycles, It becomes very easy to become addicted given its easier to access than ever. Social media and online shopping are designed to capture your attention. It's easy for them to exploit how our brains work by capturing our attention with things we want that releases dopamine in our brains.

Far too often we make impulse decisions online or in person and make a purchase, but then realize far too quickly that it's not what we thought it was. Most of the time we make a purchase thinking it will produce some sort of happiness but the "happiness" comes from making the purchase, not the item itself. Social media also produces a cycle of releasing dopamine and then causing depression. When we look at images of others we compare ourselves to them socially even if we are unaware of it. Doing this can release dopamine if you rank higher on the social ladder. It may also have the reverse effect and cause you to feel depressed if you feel lower on the social ladder. Comparing yourself to others constantly also has a negative effect, it may feel like you need things that others have, or you may feel they have it better than you because you are only seeing the highlights of their lives. Most of the time the things you see on social media are simply superfiicial apperances, and people are rarely as happy as they look online. 

In all, everything that we have access to in today's world makes it impossible to avoid appearances. Our brains were not designed to have access to social media, pornography, or other things that exploit our brains chemical makeup. The best we can do is try to avoid them, stay away from social media and online shopping. Doing so is becoming ever more difficult but if people break that cycle they will find they are much happier. 





(disclaimer I left this page 2-3 times but only for a few brief seconds to reference the writing rules)
