Everything is not always as it seems. Marketing of a product, person, or idea often presents a false reality. Life is not black and white, nor is it always bursting with color. The images and impressions presented to society today strongly affect people and create unobtainable pressures and expectations. These images and impressions create feelings of disappointment and result in misgivings from the person on the receiving end of the marketing efforts.

The ways in which images and impressions affect people are seen on a daily basis. Make-up ads with flawless faces are presented to malleable teenage girls growing up in a world that stresses appearance. Products are pitched as life-changing to people down on their luck and looking for a fix. Politicians talk of change and hope while stacking skeletons in their closet. These types of images and impressions that do not present the true nature of a product or person result in an inauthentic way of living and affect people's thoughts about themselves and others in ways that are not accurate.

Some may argue that the images and impressions presented in the world are not inaccurate representations because they represent the peak or the absolute best that a person or product can be. There are certainly cases where images and impressions can be accurate. For example, a shampoo ad showing someone with luscious locks could be considered accurate in that for some people, the shampoo provides glowing, radiant, and healthy hair. However, for others, the shampoo may not work at all or provide such minimal gain that it is hardly noticeable. By presenting items in marketing as absolute -- the shampoo changing your hair, the cereal making you healthy, the new boss skyrocketing office morale -- it creates a dangerous expectation for the masses. While, as mentioned, some may see the changes advertised, the vast majority of people will not experience a product or person that radically. By presenting the radical change or concept, the images and impressions prey on the anxieties of people, and a minority of people meeting the imagery of the marketing should not mean it is fine to present life in this way.

Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. Life is hard enough as is -- there is no reason to peddle products and people as life-changing. The reality is this: Life is not black and white, nor is it always bursting with color. Sometimes it is in shade of gray, or, even when there is color, that color is muted. Life and everything within life is on a spectrum, and not presenting the full spectrum in images and impressions leads to misconceptions and misgivings. To change this, being more transparent in marketing and imagery in general can result in realistic expectations. 
