I believe that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people to the point that individuals will make minor and major decisions based solely on the information gathered from a superficial image or impression. There is much around us that would support this point of view. 

First, let's look at advertisment today. Most non-prescription drug ads on television give no information about the product. The ad leaves you with an emotional impression or tries to convince you that a want or desire will be met by buying this product. However, no information is given on how the product would actually achieve you obtaining your want or desire. Advertisement directed at adults is merely a more sophisticated form of advertisement that is directed at children. Children directed advertisement most obviously is only trying to elicit an emotional reaction from the child. 

Second, why are pictures of entertainers or politicians in magazines or tv made up, touched up or look a certain way when that entertainer or politician is selling a product, a service or an idea. The reason is that they know that we evaluate first whether or not a person is worthy of our attention based first on looks. The cliche of "you never have a second chance to make a first impression." The idea is that if the person looks intelligent, or fun, or attractive, or  respectable then we as the public believe they must be any one or all of those things. Fantasy is being sold not a reality to the consumer. "The cult of personality" did not become a much known quip because it was wrong. 

However, the public carries a share of the blame in this because we base decisions on this superficial reasoning and entertainers, politicians and other public figures know that and act accordingly. We as the public do not demand more depth so we do not get more depth.

Some would argue that people can and do make good decisions based on images and impressions and that this has been biologically hard wired into humans over the ages when making split second correct decisions could mean the difference between life and death. Also, given the barrage of information the average person is subjected to daily that sometimes or even most of the time an image or impression is all a person can absorb or even have time to analysis and make a judgment about. Given how fast paced society is, this is a reflection of that.

Considering this issue from both sides, it seems to me that there is a place in society for making decisions based on images and impressions, but having that be the whole basis for a decision most of the time is too much of an effect on people. More balance is needed in this regard so we as individuals do not allow other people to do our thinking for us.

