Happiness is an attractive yet fleeting goal for just about anyone. This elusive state of being is the ever-present subject of pondering for many, and some of mankinds brightest minds are best known for their extensive thoughts on just how one might achieve happiness. I would argue that whether or not happiness comes from puruing personal goals or from working toward the happiness of others wholly depends on the individual making that decision. A person's background and existing accomplishments, their level of empathy and their personality, and even just how powerful they are or perceive themselves to be can all be things that contribute to deciding on which path they'll find the most happiness.

How much a person has already accomplished in their own life might be one thing that has a bearing on their happiness. If a person feels that they have barely accomplished their own goals in life, they might feel more desperate to attain those things for themselves before feeling comfortable enough to help others. A person without stable income or housing might find it difficult to put others first when they aren't secure themselves. In that case, finding stability would probably grant even the most selfless of individuals more happiness than focusing on others. Likewise, a person who has already met enough of their life goals to live comfortably may be more inclined to turn to helping others rather than setting more and more goals for themselves.

However, there's still a discrepency in what route a person might take regardless of how well-adjusted their circumstances are. The wealthiest people on the planet didn't get that way by helping others afterall. A person's personality is the most obvious factor, specifically how empathetic they are. If a person feels another's struggles as their own, then even altruistic behavior can be 'self-serving' because they're becoming happy through someone else's happiness. These people can be happy helping others because they experience the happiness of everyone they help. On the flip-side, a person lacking empathy will get no joy out of helping another person unless they have some ulterior means of personally benefitting from it. Such people will certainly get more joy from focusing on their own goals and may not be able to understand the appeal of helping other people at all.

Power is another influential factor. Those with priveleges in areas like wealth, race, or gender might find it easier to help people because their position in life allows for it. People who are struggling or powerless don't have the tools or influence to help others, and may find more frustration and feelings of helplessness when they focus on others' happiness, even if they feel empathetic toward those people and want to help them. People in positions of power have a lot more room to make this choice. Powerful people may even feel strong guilt or an obligation to use their position to help others, and ignoring those feelings may prevent them from achieving happiness.

Some people have very strong opinions on how others should achieve happiness, but in the end, I think that each of us can only truly know ourselves and what can make us happy. It's up to each individual to decide if they want to pursue happiness for themselves or for others. While various factors like life progress, personality, and privilege can influence a person, every single person is unique, and no philosophy can speak for everyone.
