Humans spend an extraordinary amount of time searching for happiness. You can read books on the topic, ask philosophers, or read great literature, all in the name of finding the key to a happy life. Most often, it will come down to two different approaches - focusing on your own hopes and dreams or living a life of service to others. When one finds a way to combine these two, we can walk a path toward happiness.

How do you combine these two ideas that at first seem so oppositive? What does being focused on your own goals have to do with serving others? If you can find a way to make your own goal that life of service, you can work toward both goals at the same time. How can this happen? If your goal is to be a great artist, you can create art that inspires others to find the best in themselves. Or you can share your gifts of creativity with people who need a way to express grief or trauma. You are feeding your own soul while filling the souls of others.

If you love gardening, you may not be able to make it your life's work, but you can share the joy it gives you by volunteering at a community garden or mentoring students in a school setting. These are times you're working toward your goal of being a part of nature and creating more beauty in the world, but your enjoyment is increased as you see the benefit it brings to others. And this, most likely, will bring you a return on  your investment of happiness above and beyond what you would get if you simply gardened in your own backyard.

But what if your passion is business and making money? At first, this seems counterintuitive to helping others. But what if you structure your business in such a way that a certain percentage of your profits goes to a cause you deeply believe in? By doing this, you have even more incentive to work toward your goals because you know they benefit others as well.

So find a way to build your life around a goal that brings others into your focus. Whatever you want to do, do it well for yourself - but also for the benefit of a cause greater than you. By living life this way, you can truly find happiness and contentment and a sense of joy and purpose. 
