Cooperation is the key to success for people in this world versus competition.  In order to succeed in this world that we live in, we must work with other people.  There is no way of getting around this.  When you cooperate with others, it creates a much better environment where everyone is working on one accord.  

Although, it may be in our human nature to want to compete with others, it can sometime sbecome counter-productive.  It sometimes causes unnecessary stress and as well as  chaos and conflict.  Competing causes you to move at a quicker pace, which leaves room for error and things not done in an orderly manner or should I say things being done in a rushed manner. People tend to be more apt to deal with other people that cooperate versus someone who has a competitive nature. It can sometimes ruffle feathers and cause people to make assumptions about you based on your competitive nature. On the flip side, some people may not like someone who is cooperative and may feel you to be more of a yes man/woman and won't want to give you the opportunities to succeed.  You may come off as someone who really has n't worked or grinded hard enough to earn a certain degree of success.

I guess you can succeed in either area regarding cooperation or competitiveness but in the long run, cooperation will win out because it requires team work as well as working with others. I kind of equate it with the tortoise and the hair (just kind of how my mind works).  The tortoise would  be cooperation.  He is not competing with anyone and he is just moving along smoothly.  Obeying the rules, not rushing. His goal is to complete the race and possibly win big.  Whereas the hair is so worried about the competition of it all that it causes him to just move, full steam ahead without thinking things through.

At the end of the day, cooperation will get you a long way in life and it will bring about success on a more consistent basis than competing which may cause you to take a chance that will keep you from fully succeeding.  
