In the world we live in, we will be confronted by two different ways of achieving our goals. We can either cooperate with one another to achieve our goal together or there's another route, competition. With competition we will work against one another to achieve our goal. These are two very different ways to reach our goals and while they both have their benefits it is my belief that cooperation is the best way to achieve success. Working together to achieve our goals is one of the best ways to succeed in this world.

When we put competition aside and join together to achieve a common goal, we have the ability to do amazing things. For decades the United States and the Soviet Union were at each others necks competing with one another trying to be better then the other. Sometimes at great personal costs to each nation. One example being the space race, the United States and the Soviet Union had a great deal of spectacular failures that costs lifes and untold amounts of resources. While eventually they would both go on to achieve their goals. Many of these failures could have been avoided by cooperating with one another and not pressing so hard to one up the other nation. Had we worked together and taken our time, there would have been far less failures and loss of life. As the years pressed forward the United States and Soviet Union reached out to one another and offered to cooperate with one another in their space ventures and began a great new chapter to cooperation.

In 1975 the United States and Soviet Union achieved a joint goal, they successfully docked their two spacecrafts together in low earth orbit and thus began a chapter of cooperation. This was a major step toward making rivals teammates. After this step the two nations began to make strides in cooperation not just in space but together on the ground as well. US and USSR relations began to warm, trade between the two nations began to increase. New agreements were made the limit the threat of nuclear weapons. The two nations made major progress with each other over the decades to follow that first space docking. In 1998 the two nations would once again come together to build the International Space Station, the largest space vehicle ever created. It would take over a decade to build. However the two nations we're able to complete this orbiting vehicle together through the spirt of cooperation.

Through the acts of cooperation the world has gained so much. We see the benefits of everyday, be it the International Space Station, the collection of nations that create the European Union. Even the United States it self is built upon the cooperation of states coming together to form a nation. Cooperation creates more success then any competition ever will. Through history we've seen compeititon has led to more and more friction between parties and has led to serious breakdowns. However throughout time we've seen the collaboative spirt of cooperation has led to some of the most profound achievements man has ever seen and I cannot wait to see what else it will bring this world in the future.
