While most people can agree that being happy is always good for the  mind and the people around you, not everyone has their happiness come from the same place. Whether it is from making goals to better yourself to enjoying a new game, there is no end to where one can source their happiness. Lots of people will usually find any way they can to find happiness, but most of the time, if someone focuses on the happiness of others, they can find themselves being as happy as everyone around them.

What most people feel when they are happy are usually a relief of worry and being able to be one's self without the ridicule of others. An easy way to feel like this can be to help people around yourself. As long as the person someone helps appreciates the help, it can make that person who helped feel a lot better about themselves, thus making them feel happier for the rest of the day. In addition, Those same people can make it a personal goal to help others, and every time they do, it can make them feel more happiness. Some tasks can even be easy to do, like help someone cross the street, give someone money, or even help somebody move. In addition, when someone is feeling happier by helping someone else, they may feel more inclined ot help others around and be a more contibuting member to society, which helps the community a lot too.

Neurologically, humans are more intuned to be a community, as that is how our species evolved. If evolution is correct, then humans should have a neurological way to have a reason to make more connections to one another and help each other. If we sent signals to our brains of being happy everytime we helped somebody, then that would both benefit us as a society, and make us want to do it more. Helping others should be human nature, so when we help others, is should feel good for us to do it, and probably even better than just helping ourselves. 

There are benefits to helping ourselves and working on our personal goals. We can make more use of extra time getting to where we want to be and seeing where we get after a lot of hard work can feel amazing. The problem with this method is when we have reached a certain goal, the happiness is gone. Whil;e the feeling can sometimes feel stronger in the moment, it goes away after a shorter amount of time than helping others. Someone can workout at the gym and get to a point where they hit their goal. While they may be proud of themselves, they now must make a new goal in order to get that happiness again. By working on ourselves, we may need to spend a lot of time, and the journey to that happiness can be a lot of work. We may spend this time doing so much just to have a few minutes or days being happy. In contrast, helping others can be done multiple times in a day and one can feel enjoyment from that every time. not only can it be a little easier and less time consuming to help others, but the happiness gotten from it may be a lot higher overall in a day than happiness that is gotten from a personal goal.

The drawback to helping others as a main source of happines is that the person is at the whim of the person they are helping. If the person they help is not appreciative of the help, they may not be able to feel happines like they wanted to, and may seek out less people to help and only work on themselves. There are also times where helping others may be dangerous, as they may take advantage of the person in question as well as hurt them for some type of sadistic enjoyment, or even rob a person because they are able to. While these are possibilities, these are far and few in between and never usually affect the person who is helping others. If a person didn't get happiness when helping others, then they wouldn't reach out in the first place, and they would keep reaching out if it does give them that much happiness.

While there are different ways to make ourselves happy, helping people may be the best way to have a long term happiness. There may be other ways to help ourselves become happy, helping others may be the best way and it should be sought after more often by others.
