As we go about or daily lives, we ineveitbly encounter people, be it friends, relatives or coworkers. With this interactions also comes some competition. Conversely, this interactions also lead to many opporitunities to cooperate with others. There are a variety of instances when the two ideologies are at play, but when and if and how we use them to our advantage depends the person and the situation and the desired outcome as well. To be in competiotion with someone is a show of your strengths and sometimes weaknesses. Cooperation with others can show those same wonderful character traits and personalty flaws as well, but cooperation lends itself to more healthy and fruitful relationships, be they work or personal, and therefore leads to more successful individuals. 

Let us examine work relationships. Ample opporitunity to compete. What happens though, when you work in a place were everyone is always competiton with one another? For one, group or company meetings would be pretty intesting! And that is just it, when the time comes for the team to complete a project as a unit, in a competive mind set, the only thing I am focused on is MY work being seen and pushed forward. MY ideas are the best and we should go with them and them alone. If we ALL felt that way, or behaved that way in work settings we would NEVER accomplish anything and if we did , it would probably require and exhorbantant amount of time. Furthermore, having a collective or cooperative mindset allows for more diverse interactions and ideas and outcomes. A competative enviroment doesn't necessarily breed success either. Some people are brilliant but shy. Your could miss out on some great ideas and major company wins if we only ever focused on competing with each other. While competion is good in a variety of instances, it does not produce an enviroment in which everyone can thrive. No one person can do every aspect of a task, nor should they. Competion is a lot of work and expends energy that often times is counterproductive on the whole.

Personality, environement or situtation and your ultimate goals are major factors in when and whether or not to be competitive or cooperative. Ultimatly, we get to the top with the help of many people. In work scenarios like described above, you won't get promoted to a top or lead position if you cannot work with others. You cannot be a leader is you are always looking to best your employees or coworkers. More impotantly, you do not win the respect of your peers if all you ever seek to do is compete and out work. There is balance in everthing in  life. If I examine my goal and my goal is to only be the best at everyhting no matter what, then I will always compete and never cultivate realtionships or have an opporitnity to learn from others. When I cooperate, I am more likely to be respected and admired by my peers. They will know that when things are tough and our backs are to the wall with a crazy deadline, that I will roll my sleeves up and help and not hurt or hinder the process. When we cooperate with one another we ofter do so for a common goal. Cooperation leads to successes in in life in general and is more often reciprocated, because remeber, we don't get to the top alone. SOMEONE helped us or cooperated with us in some way to help push us along. 

