Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Love it or hate it, we live in a capitalist society, and one of the results of capitalism is materialism. The world runs on money. Money equals status. An easy way to prove one's status is to buy things that shows a person has wealth. Materialism is not so much a personal thing as it is a construct of our society. 

Growing up, I would read things in history class about how different societies throughout the ages would find ways to divide people into classes. In certain parts of Asia, the paler a person's skin was, the higher of a class they were perceived to belong in, as lighter skin meant that the person wasn't subject to work that required being outside in the sun all day long. In Europe, having at least one person working for you showed that you had some sort of monetary status. As society has progressed, the ways in which people can demonstrate important has progressed as well. In modern day society, materialism is how you show others what class you belong to. If you have a luxury car, an expensive purse, or a massive house, you are perceived as being someone of importance. Significantly, it is a fact that the gap between the working class and the middle class is growing smaller every day. A way for the middle class to feel closer aligned with those right above them, the upper class, than those right beneath, the working class, is to indulge in spending money on fancy things.  

Another reason modern society should not be criticized for materialism is that it brings money into the economy. We want people spending, no matter what the motiviation is. When people spend money, it can help keep the job market active. The entire nation has seen how easy it is for the economy to suffer for things that are beyond any human's control, such as the covid-19 pandemic. If we were to shame people for being materialistic, then when a pandemic (like the one we've just experienced) were to subside, people would not be inclined to spend money to get the market back to where it was before such a pandemic. 

With that being said, I can understand why someone would view materialism negatively. An emphasis on luxury items may bring people to do things they may not do otherwise, like steal or commit fraud for money. It also can be de-moralizing for someone who is working hard day in and day out yet barely making ends meet see someone spending money on non-essentials. However, a person has the right to spend their money as they deem fit. Also, perception is just that, perception. A smart adult should be able to grasp that spending money on things doesn't mean that a person is happy or even has the money that they seem to have based on superficial things like clothing. 

Overall, materialism has far more pros than it does cons. Money being put into the market is a good thing, regardless of what the money is being spent on, or what the motivation for the spending is. Despite any criticism, materialism plays an important role in this world and will continue to remain a priority for many individuals. 
