The topic of happiness and what it's derived from has been something that humans have thought about -- presumably since the beginning of time. It has been argued that happiness can be obtained in different ways. A couple of those ways being from personal happiness as a result of accomplishing something on your own behalf; mainly reaping the benefits yourself after succeeding in whatever goals or journey. The other being from a sense a selflessness; the act of helping others, sacrificing for others, and caring for others ultimately will bring you happiness along the way. 

I personally believe that your happiness is something that you'll have to pursue; it likely won't be handed to you, and it's quite risky to just let the chips fall way they may for something that I believe to be vital for humans. You should set goals for yourself; you should prioritize your own happiness. I believe this to be very healthy and not at all a bad thing to do. Setting your own goals and constructing a path to go down is an effective & efficient way to find yourself in a happy place. I don't know of a better feeling in the world than accomplishing a goal; or goals, and finding myself at the end of a journey.

I find it especially risky and careless to not prioritize your own happiness, because of the simple fact that other people are likely already prioritizing their own happiness and they won't have the time to worry about yours. I don't necessarily believe that people are extemely selfish and careless about others; that's a cynical viewing of the world, but as I noted -- it's just healthy to make sure that you're doing well and are in a happy place. If every human worried about their happiness and it didn't hurt others in the process -- the world would be a much better place.

As I've noted; one of the arguments against this that some people can find happiness and comfort in life by helping others. Helping yourself and putting yourself in a good position is wonderful, but could you imagine being able to help large numbers of people? Your time could be used much more efficiently in that way; you're helping communities, towns, cities, countries, or even regions of the world if you choose to go this route. When you reflect on what you've done in your life; you can safely say that you left an imprint on the world, and can feel great about what you've done in your short time on this planet.

I think that no matter which pathway or journey that you go down for happiness; you will likely find happiness in of itself. The sense of selflessness is not ingrained in everyone, but for those that it is -- it's a beautiful thing and something that we should cherish. We should also commend those that are able to set their own goals and go down their own journey to find what they're looking for in life. The moral of this essay is to say that whether accomplishing your own personal goals, or taking the selfless route -- you will find happiness. 
