Today I will be writing about the topic of materialism, and whether or not modern society should be criticized for being materialistic.  The argument I will put forward is yes, modern society should be criticized for being materialistic, just as any society should be.  Materialism, which I understand as a never-ending pursuit to attain physical items and wealth, may seem to make people happy on the outside, but in reality is harming the mental health of people by misaligning their efforts with what will actually make them happy: rejecting materialism.  It is in everyone's best interest to criticize materialism when they can, and offer alternative ways of finding happiness so that everone can live in harmony with exploiting each other and our world.

In order to understand why I believe materialism is bad, we must first understand why it began.  The most commonly accepted theory of how human life emerged comes from Darwin and his theory of evolution.  Animals and plants must adapt to their environment in order to survive and pass on their genes.  The most basic way to adapt to one's environment is to be able to consume it and use it to proliferate one's own life.  Thus, materialism is essential to who we are as humans, but also as beings in general.

So, how can something that is essential to what we are be a bad thing?  Well, the problem arises when gathering material things no longer becomes a means to survive, but the reason for surviving in the first place.  It is natural to gather resources in order to remain healthy and alive, but if that is one's main pursuit in life, they will never be satisfied.  There is always more to acquire, but the urge will never be satisfied.  And satisfaction, I believe, is what everyone truly wants.  

To prove to you, the reader, that materialism is not the answer to what is causing your suffering in life, I ask you to consider this question:  when in your life have you felt most satisfied?  For me personally, I feel most satisfied when I spend time with my loved ones.  Although I do not have data to support my claim, I am willing to bet that most people would give a similar example that does not depend on physical items they have attained.  Even in the case where someone is satisfied when buying something new, I actually think they are just happy that their work was worth something.  When you don't work for something you get, do you really enjoy it as much?  In most cases, I'm again willing to bet the answer is no.  

Now I must come to the original question of criticizing society for being materialistic.  The pursuit of welath, land, and other physical resources leads to war, famine, and people taking advantage of each other.  When is the last time a minimalist started a war or killed someone else out of anything except self-defense? With that said, I do not believe that criticizing something without offering better alternatives is productive, but I do believe constructive criticism of society can help other people find true contentment.  So, when you see someone flaunting material possesions or wealth, do not scold them just for the sake of feeling superior to them.  Offer your opinion (or mine) on why materialism is not a way to true happiness, while offering them the truth of where you find real contentment.   You may find that helping them find happiness is far more satisfying for you than simply making them feel bad.   It's life's greatest win-win scenario.  This is what I believe most world religions were originally created to accomplish, and I believe it is a value to which we should return.

In summary, I believe the total rejection of excessive materialism is the only true way to happiness in life.  As I stated in the second third paragraph, we try to attain material wealth in order to live, not the other way around.  If you don't believe me, just try it out, and see how it feels.  When your focus is centered on the present moment and not on what items you don't have, you may come to find true contentment.  Eliminate want, and embrace now.  Not only that, but let others know the truth by constructively criticizing excessive materialism in society around you.  Show people there is another way, and be happy together.  What could be better than that?
