The modern world bulid by the people. The future of the modern world is dependance upon the modern people. There are many type of people live in the world. also many competitive people around the world. but many people not interested in the competitive thinks. Now we discuss about the two person's life story. one is willing to competitive world. another one is cooperation person.
Now we discuss about the achieve more success by cooperation person. Mark live in the NY, USA. he working one of the big company in the city. He is very talented person also he is very leadership person. he is one of the manager in the company. one fine company management give a one task for him. It is a important task also it is make company next level. Mark and team was ready to complete the task. he talk to team and motivate. they are ready for the task. Task was end and task is complete the very well. the task was successfully completed by the Mark and team because of cooperation of team work. 
Now we talk about the more success by competitive person, Jessica live in the CA, USA. she is working in the small scale software company in the city. It is growning company. the company empolyee was hard workers as well as competitive people. they are only focus upon them self as well as them growth. that is not wrong one because they are grown company well been grown so the head of the company didn't care about it. Jessica is one of the part of company she is very hard worker as well as very competitive. one day the company gives a one of the major task for the empolyee. who complete the task first and properly they have biggest promotion for they carrier. so the worker was very happy. everyone ready for the complete the task inculded jessica. she is very competitive person so she complete the task very well as well as short time period because of she is very talented person. all other worker was very shock. How is possible complete the task below the time period. but she done it. So she had a reward for the task. she promote the head manager in the company.
The moral of the two stories about the success. both are the success story. success by cooperation and success by competiton. success is more important for everyone. any way make a success but the way of success done by the ethically. not a wrong way. the success by cooperation and success by competition both are ethically way so what way comfortable for the people follow it. 
  
