People achieve more success by competition rather than by cooperation. This is readily apparent in the field of economics. Sports is another area where competion equals success. A person would be hard-pressed to argue that competition does not drive one's career. Indeed, competition is the driving force that promotes accomplishments and makes one strive to greater heights.

Capitalism has long been known as the way to promote a healthy economy. Capitalists succeed by being competitive. Socialists "cooperate" in a way that discourages personal effort. If a person has a successful lemonade stand, then he reaps the economic benefits of that lemonade stand. If everyone receives the same income for having a lemonade stand no matter if it is successful or not, then the capitalist would stop trying. 

Even in the early elementary grades, children are pitted against their peers in Little League, basketball, soccer, and various other sports. This is overkill for such small people, but it is human nature to train our littles to succeed. We even have spelling bees to encourage our kids to excel and push harder.

Career may be the field where this principle is most easily seen. If you work hard, or you have a good idea, or you are the most popular business, then you get richer. If you are the underdog or you are lazy, generally you are not going to make much money. A person pursues an associates, a bachelor's, even a master's or PhD in hopes of being more competitive than others, and is usually rewarded with a larger salary.

There may be those who argue that cooperation is more likely to achieve a successful outcome than competition. Some will say that competition will cause moments of impasse and disagreement so that particular projects can not go forward. Others might point out that competition discourages compassion and hurts the underdog. It might even be said that cooperation makes people happier so that they work harder. 

In the instance of a disagreement or impasse, it is possible that momentarily a project could be halted. But then I would expect that opposing sides would present their own ideas and that the one that is best would triumph. In fact, competition in this realm could spur great minds to think harder and come up with exemplary solutions.

Competition can indeed seem callous and hard hearted. However, it is a fact of life that one must work hard and be diligent to achieve a peaceful and satisfied life. Just because one person is more successful than you, this should not cause resentment if you are doing your best and grateful for the things you do have. This is much more to do with one's character and acceptance than with actually being the best alternative. 

Happiness is indeed achieved when each person is allowed to try their hardest and reap the results of their own work. It gives each person a sense of contentedness at the end of the day to look at what they have done and think, "I did that, and I did a good job." Comparing one's work to others is the seed for malcontent and jealousy, and again these are not an issue with a strongness of will and character.

Overall, competition seems to present the best route for success. It works for economies. It works for sports and prepares one for a career. It can be shown as the best alternative even when put to question. Healthy competition is the key to greater accomplishments.
