     In the complex web of life here on planet Earth, where species struggle for survival, one can observe different strategies at play. For our own human form, two important styles are often contrasted; one involving mutual cooperation, and the other individual competition. 
     Of course, there is much more to the flourishing of the species than these, but they are both easily observed and contrasted. Most reasonable people will understand the need for cooperation, as our lives as relatively weak beings in this harsh world would certainly be impossible without it. However, let us not discount the role that competition has had in our success.
     It was competition, not cooperation, that has had a greater impact on human development. The fight for resources, for food, for water, for caves to shelter in, and most of all, for mates, that has driven homo sapiens to wvercome the odds, and become the dominant species on our lonely planet. Without frequent culling of the weaker among us, we would still be living in the trees, a fearful and complacent group of fruit eaters and leaf munchers.
     Some will no doubt say that this is poppycock, that mans fate is due to our compassion and love for one another that has allowed us to achieve great things. While it is true that such caring and aid has allowed us to build together what we could not alone, it was the savage competition, between individuals that led to the emegence of strong leaders that could dominate groups, and force them to work together, against their selfish wants and needs. This is the basic structure that human societies are built upon.
     It is obvious that without competition, cooperation would have been impossible. Competition begat the cooperation that has become a hallmark of our advanced civilisation. Without it, we would not be who we are, and it's place in our current lives should not be underestimated, as the process of evolution continues, bringing us to the further glories that surely await. 
