These days I seem to have a lot of stuff. A lot of stuff! It is the result of over sixty years of accumulating material  things. In fact, there is no room left to place even one more article in any of my closets. There is no room left to tuck something in a dresser drawer or under the bed. There is no room left for me. There is no room left for my small kitten. Over the years I spent a lot of money and things that simply caught my eye. Even if I no longer need or use the items, my belief has been that since they cost money I worked hard to earn that I should hold on to them.  

Now that my husband and I are both retired we spend more time at home and I have noticed that materialism took full control of my life. I need to take it back before I become a prime candidate to be filmed in a reality television show in the role of the star hoarder. Does modern society look down on my desired to accumulated goods? I don't thing so. I think many people greedly consume just like me.

My new stance is that the clutter must go. My only daughter recently informed me that if I died tomorrow she would not want one item of my belongings. She said she would park a dumpster in the front yard, fill it up, and have it hauled off. My husband said if he stumps his toes one more time when going from his arm chair to the refrigerator he will leave me (preferably for a pretty young blond), and my best friend said she would no longer come to visit because there is no place left for her to sit down. Yes. It is time to clean house.

Others may disagree with my plans to begin a time I will dub "The Great Discard." Maybe their houses and dressers and closets are biger that mine. Maybe they can afford to take a vacation and literally "get away from it all." Maybe they feel secure cuddled up with all their belongings. Not me! Soon I will have the room to be free. I might never have to dust again. My daughter will not destroy my things because most will be at Goodwill. My husband will stay home where he belongs. And I will enjou a cup of tea with my best friend.

How many are ready to join us?  
