Some people debate wether people live more fullfilling lives if they focus on their own goals or if they focus on the hppiness of others. As many women who succesfully navigate career and family demands can attest, it may be more important to consider wether a blend of those approaches better serves our abilty to feel fullfilled and at peace with our lives in the longrun. That blend may eliminate the fustration of living a life at either end of the spectrum of selfishness or self-denial.

When I started parenting as a very young mother I became consumed with giving 100% of my time to supporting my son and caring for his needs. I didn't continue my education or even consider job choices that might lead to a fullfilling career. While i could see myself as a good provider, I didn't think about how puring all of my attention away from my needs might leave me empty. Around the time that my son became a pre-teen I began to feel eager to explore the things that were of interest to me. Surprisingly I found support from my son for me to 'get a life', even though he expressed that encouragement in much more respectful terms.

One of the other factors that led me to make a shift in my attitudes was a realization that every meaning job that I had held until that point were all customer or community-serving positions. Again, my focus was on the happiness of others. While some could argue that the joy of service gives back to the person who is serving, I believe that there must be a balnce that considers our personal dreams and goals. There are many challanges that people may face at that point of pivoting from placing others first to a position of giving their own needs equal billing. I found it difficult to deal with misplaced guilt about being 'selfish' enough to budget my time and resources on the things that I wanted to accomplish. A second challange that i faced was dealing with peers and family members who didn't want to see me change from my ever-giving self because they were use to relying on my to help take care of their issues. 

Although decades have passed since I began to seek a balance between caring for the happiness of others while also placing my needs, wants and pursuit of personal goals on my list of priorities I still consider those efforts to be a work in progress. I can honestly say that now that I give more to myself and my own ambitions I have more of me left that feels happy and fullfilled enough to allow me to give more to others. 
