       There has always been much back on forth on whether or not competition is a good thing that can help people exceed their goals and reach success. Some see competition as a driving force that pushes us to be better. Others see it as a hinderance that makes us aggressive towards each other because we want to win and be better than everyone else. While there are many different opinions on this, I believe that cooperation is more important to people than competition, and that cooperation helps us each success more than competition does or ever will.

        Between cooperation and competitveness, the big difference of them is that while one of them pushes people apart, the other pushes people together. Competive things are not inheritantly bad, and they can help people better themselves, but the problem lies when people push competitve spirits too far, taking them from friendly competition to spiteful things. Then you are teaching people to look out only for themselves and that they as an individual are the most important and only important person. Cooperation, on the other hand, teaches people and helps us to learn how to work together towards a common goal, not against each other to reach that goal. It shows us that there are other people who are reaching for our same goals, and that while we may be different, neither one of us is better than the other simply because one of us "won". 

       On cooperation's side, it is also easier with multiple people to reach an end goal then it would be for 2 individuals to reach that goal working separately from one another. Different people have different ideas and thoughts, and those differences can help find a solution to the problem faster. No two people are exactly alike, so having people compete to be better than the other cannot be used to measure someone's worth, which many people have taken it to mean. Were no one so serious about competition, it would not be a big deal. But people treat competition like life or death, and that mindset forces us to see ourselves as either better than everyone else, or worse as everyone else, when really we cannot be that comparable because of how different we are. Even if we were the same though, cooperation would benefit all of us, while competion only truly benefits one person at the end of the day.

      Think of it like a group project. With multiple people who have different strengths working together, it is much easier to reach success than it is with just one. There is less work for everyone to do, and you can get help if you need it. There are other people to give you advice on your part of the project, or find information for you. And if anything bad were to happen to you that would delay your work, there are then people there to help you, so you do not have to struggle on your own to catch up while in the middle of something bad happening in your personal life.
       
     Those who see competition as better see it that way because they believe that through fighting against one another, we can make ourselves better than others. That "me" vs "we" is really what the arguement is about. Competition is to better oneself and places us in a straight line of who is better than who, while cooperation is to better the group, putting us all in different places with none of them being better or worse than the others, only different than the others. But if we all only better ourselves, then we are pushing other people down and holding them there, all so we can feel better about who we are as an individual. and that is an unfair position to force people into.
       
     There is not anything inheirantly wrong with competition. Competitive sports and activities like board games can be fun and can bring people together and help us find some success. But it is when you leave that realm of friendly-competition, where no one truly loses, that the problems occur. You can still learn from friendly-competition without making others feel worse about themselves because they are worse than someone else when they lose, but overall, as far as other competitions go, you can learn more and find more success from cooperation about how to work with other people and how to better the group instead of just yourself, which is more valuable in the end. 
