Modern society has an unhealthy obsession with materialistic objects. Materialism has permeated every aspect of modern life, people need to have more and more to be happy. However, it does not seem to have an impact on our happiness, we see this especially in the western world. It may make us temporarily happy, but it is not a sustainable strategy for a happy life. There is also another aspect to this, and that is how materialism is destroying the environment.

If you consider the environmental impact of materialism (that is, the production of the material objects, materials like plastic being used, etc.) the trade offs to living a materalistic life in modern society, are not worth it. Not only are we not as happy as we could be, or think we will be by having the material object, we are also ruining the future world for next generations of people coming after us. So, it is definitely fair to criticize modern society for being materialistic. Not only materialistic, but shallow, too. There's no time to ponder just what we are actually doing in modern society, we spend our lives producing compulsively, and consuming compulsively. Working away at things to fund and sustain our materialistic lifestyle and at the end of the day, much is lost by living life this way. It is unnatural, as well. Humans were not meant to live life in such an unnatural way.

Modern society has lost sight of the big picture, it seems. We've lost connection to things that should ground us in life such as having a connection to nature, our roots, the natural world, and spirituality, even. It is hard not to criticize modern society for how shallow the way we live our lives truly is. A lot of us work jobs for most of our lives, gaining money, and then trading it for material goods. And in the end, we are not happier for it. We are never happy in modern society, because we need the next thing to fill whatever void it is we have, but it can't be filled with shallow materalistic possessions. We lost sight of what really matters in life. It is a very shallow existence in modern society due to materialistic nature of our modern life. Considering the future of the planet, our own health as a human race, both mentally and physically, and the coming future generations, it is time to re-evaluate the way we are living life in modern society. A materialistic society is unsustainable in all aspects. It is absolutely reasonable to criticize modern society in this regard.
