The true source of happiness has been debated for centuries. Many different cultures and religions give their own definitions of happiness. For example, Buddhists don't believe you can ever be truly happy if you are materialistic. Christians believe that your heart is happy when you are charitable. Recently, though, there has been a lot of focus on self-improvement and taking care of yourself before you can take care of others. And many people respond to this idea positively. Countless self help books fly off the shelves. These books promise to show you how to reach personal happiness. I think people are more likely to be happy if they help those around them rather than living in , but I think they are MOST happy when they find a balance between altruism and self happiness.
  
On the one hand, I believe that most people will find it difficult to be happy if they don't take the time to care about other people. If they don't, they will become self-obsessed and vapid. They'll become fixated on being perfect. They will not learn to be grateful and they will pursue superficial goals. They will become more concerned about how they look and they will indulge in hedonism. This is toxic for the soul and usually damaging to the body and mind. It also will inevitably hurt those around them who feel left out of their self-serving goals. Therefore, it will compromise close relationships.

On the other hand, if people only take time for others and never worry about themselves, they won't be able to tend to their own emotions and desires. They will become secretly resentful of being forgotten about. People do need to reflect on their own existence once in a while. If not, they will feel like they are disappearing. They may also neglect their own health which could lead to misery. And they may begin to feel that they are not appreciated. Even if they are helping others, people may not be happy if they feel it is at their own expense.

In conclusion, I feel that in order to avoid the negative consequences of either extreme, people need to focus on other people but also take time for themselves occasionally. I think they will be most happy if they follow this path. I think it is unwise to choose one mode of happiness entirely over another. A mixture of both, altruism and personal fulfillment, is the best way to obtain true happiness and live a balanced life.


