The "reality" of life as seen on Instagram is a fraud, meant to leave you wanting more and ruin your perception of what constitutes a good life.

The grip that social media has on how life is perceived is growing, and in many ways, is being substituted for real life interactions now. Instead of bringing fulfillment to our lives, it is increasing dissatisfaction and breeding depression in everyone it touches. I believe the only way to combat this effect is by removing the problem: overuse of social media as a method of communication.

Studies have been done that show our society is more depressed than ever, especially teenagers. We also use social media in quantities so large, no generation prior has ever matched the level of consumtion with any other form of media. In fact, those studies have shown that the more someone uses social media, the more depressed they are. 

Why is that?

Well, I think there's a few reasons to examine, but they all generally fall under the same category: the effects of dissatisfaction from looking at how good the rest of the world has it. The problem with this, of course, is that social media isn't reality. What we see online doesn't correlate to real life. Life is simple, for most people. That's okay, really. Yet, in this age of social media, we're not allowed to have boring days. So, people work harder and harder to achieve something they can share, and they often fail. Everyone who participates experiences some level of this desire. We want to be relevant, needed, and wanted.

Some might say more social media means more connectedness. However, connectedness isn't the goal - community is. You can be connected to people from all over the globe, and still feel lonely. Being known for who we are is an innate desire in all of us, so too we have this fear of rejection... we'll never expose everything for anyone to see. Thus, social media will always have a limit. True connection and community can't be found online alone - It must be combined with face-to-face interactions.

Another position people might take is that the reality of social media and the impression it has on people may be the only good things people see sometimes, so it's worth it. I would say, those people need true community more than ever. They need real people to come beside them and be able to see life through their lens, and that can't be done from a computer screen alone.

The opposite position is from people who would shun social media altogether - they would say that the images and impressions that we're left with aren't worth the potential risk at all. Social media can be an obsession, an escape from reality, or the extension of community. We should find a balance between the overuse of social media, and the non-use of social media.

In a world where everyone is consumed with the way they're perceived, it's okay to be different. It's okay to take a step back to consider how you define the good things in life. Go enjoy a sunset with a friend. Go eat dinner with your family. Go take a trip, not to share the photos on social media, but to be somewhere you haven't seen before. Take stock of what makes life worth living - It's not the next photo-worthy moment, but the love you share with the people around you. Instead of finding ways to be dissatisfied with what you don't have, be grateful for the things you do. Everything in moderation - use social media as an extension of who you are in real life, not a substitute for human interaction. Science says you'll be happier that way anyway.
