Materialism is something that most people would criticize or condemn, but materialism is also the thing that drives our economy.. People buy things. People want things they need. People want things they don't have. Then they go out an buy these items or save to buy them or simply long to have them. All of this drives demand and that drives the economy.

Suppose that people stopped being so materialistic. Suppose people lived with only the bare necessities. What would they do with their money? It's easy to save that people would save this money and live comfortably throughout their lives. But to what end? Would they want to live without the things they like and admire and want? Would we want automobile factories to make basic sedans or station wagons exclusively? Is there something inherently wrong with stainless steel appliances that means we should only have the standard white porcelain models? It's those wants and needs that drive our society and economy. 

But aside from driving the economy, materialism drives happiness and satisfaction. The acquisition of material goods that people have strived to acquire is a component in achieving happiness and satisfaction. People want what they want. When people work and save or borrow or scrimp, any way they know how to acquire something - a new car, a boat, the house of their dreams, a new television - it makes them happy to have it, at least for a time until they move on to something else. It also makes the dealer who sells the item happy, and it makes the manufacturer of that item happy, too. In time, the government is happy also, because of the taxes collected and rising production numbers. 

Feel free to complain about materialism all you want. Feel free to cut back and, by all means, live within your means. But also accept that materialism has its good points, too. If not for materialism, we might just as well be sitting in a cave around a campfire, dressed in animal skins and eating what we managed to forage that day. Materialism is what drives our society today, just as it always has in the past. Our lives are better because of it.   
