Is success in work and life better achieved by engaging in various competitions and rivalries, or through cooperation and different types of collaboration?

Throughout life, there have been hundreds of discussions, arguments, debates and even statistical research concerning the effects of a compete/challenge mentality versus a cooperate/team-up mentality. I believe that friendly competition in life and/or social occassions, such as playing a sports match, competing in a chess match or a board game can be a great way to teach a variety of skills, give a person motivation to work harder towards their goals and give a sense of pride and satisfaction at job well done. Also, in work situations, competition and rivalry can occassionally be a good thing. Colleagues competing to present different ideas/presentations can push employees to find the best ideas and the best way to present those ideas. Also, a good competing discussion at a staff meeting can bring out new thoughts, and provide pros and cons for different ideas for a company.

But overall in life and in work, I believe cooperation is still the best way to achieve success. Using this method gives people a chance to meet new people, exchange ideas and each person can use their particular strengths to help others who may not be as proficient in the same areas. Collaboration can strengthen team morale and help everyone feel included, giving them a sense of belonging. Plus, when a team/group works together towards a goal and they succeed, every member of that team gets to feel the same sense of pride and accomplishment and that can often lead to celebrations outside of work, which can help boost peoples moods and improve their quality of life.

Life can be hard and full of challenges and ups and downs, but in life and in work, there is a time and place for ambitious competitions, as well as a time when its better to help others and cooperate to reach a goal. If you can manage to find the right balance for when and how to use these different strategies in work and life, it can help with managing a good work/life balance, give you the confidence to handle certain things on your own, and the strength to reach out for help when needed. This will not only improve your own quality of life, but it can also improve the quality of life of those around you, including improved mental/emotional wellbeing, which is very important to a healthy balanced life. Thank you for your time.
