People thought that People achieve more in competition because healthy competition are always welcome in our society, while we cooperate to others then its a team , for team we need to co operate to others for a sucess. But in competiton we need to competite against a particular person who wants to win us. we achieve more in competition is thought of most people, For examples lets take sports, a competition between some athelets who ran fast is known as running race in other words its known as olympics. As well as in sports example for co operation is foot ball which is a team game, All members in the team is to co operate each other for a victory. In my point of view I say that co operation is the best way for sucess in many branches like sports, work, family etc... People combines their skill for a victory is known as co operation , Lets see an example briefly for co operation via sport foot ball , A team fights for a victory using some strategys, team works and plans. The players splits into some groups known as attackers , defenders, and a goal keeper.
ATTACKER
         They tries hard to put the ball in other teams net which is located in the opposite side, The attackers moves the ball to the opposite side to make a goal for their team, Here co operation is used in the way of passing the foot ball to nearby players without giving the ball to the defender of opposite team.
DEFENDER
         They tries to defend the ball which the opposite players tries to put in the nets of our side . Here co operation is used by their position of standing , They made some strategies to Their position of standing and defend the opposite team attackers.
GOAL KEEPER 
        The only man standing just in the forward of nets to defend the ball which was hit by the attackers of the opposite side.
   Thus one team splits into groups and co operatings others members in the same team and moving forward to the victory and makes the sucess to their team, Every single player in the team is co operating others by their known own skill and contributing for their country this is known as co operation. The power of co operation is comes out when the people in the team understand each other well, And sharing their ideas and skills with the team. The co operation is very better way then the competion for victory, Even though the competion also have some ways for sucess, The co operation is the most likely way for the sucess. Hence we need to promote co operation more then competion in our society to make it better, Co operation is better then competition in reality.
