This is an interesting topic. Humans need material things to survive and to live our life and we all have need wants and desires. Its how we approach materialism. is it a hedonstic or something that we need to live. it can be both. 
We need material things to live but it should give us some pleasure so we can strive to be better.
Like for example, we need a shirt to wear this is a basic thing but if the shirt size does not fit right it would still provide protection but it would be a challeging to wear and as a result we could be less productive or take longer to do things since we are focusing on the wrong size shirt. Now lets say the shirt fit well iter could make you feel good and be more productive in nature so you can do the things that you need to do 
Materialism can be complex in nature since every one in this world has a different personality so they put a certain value on materialitic things each has a different eaning for it. Some people may like a lot of things and possesions others may not. There are some very wealthy people like Elon Musk living in a tiny house but yet he is one of the wealthiest people in the world or Mark Zuckerburg getting hair cuts at home. He can afford a 20 buck hair cut. Some poor people are shopping for expensive clothing perfumes etc that they really cant afford  but they buy it anyways. they imo should be saving their money.
There is  a market for material things as it floats the economy and some nice tings started out with humble beginnings like a Gucci bag or a Rolex watch. over time they elvolved into luxury brands. and their is a market and need for these items. What made them good over time is steeped in tradition of Italian and German engineering. So materialism can evolve over time
Materialism really boils down to needs anf wants and buying what you need that is stylish but yet functional to lead your life. Everyone needs and desires a spluge every now and then!
to sum it up it can be a good and bad thing it depends on the persons values and upbringing in how they view mateialism
its a part of life and we need to deal with it and manage it to the best of our abilities.
