The idea of appearances are as old as time. Going back to the ancient Egyptians, we know from historical accounts and artifacts that jewerly was used in a similar way to modern use. Beautiful gold necklaces and ceremonal pieces placed importance on the wearer distinguishing them from "commoners". Similar accounts in ancient Greece and Rome help with the hypothesis that this is a human trait rather than a new development. Seeing someone with something nice intrigues us. In this short essay, I will argue that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.

As referenced above, society has always placed a emphysis on appearances and possessions. This has grown exponentially with the advent of the internet and social media. All of a suddent, the few celebrities that would define a generation blew up to include influencers, new celebrities in esports, and instantly recognizeable people made famous from viral videos.  I would argue that this effect has reduced the influence that the mainstream celebrities have on people but it has also has a detrimental effect that I'll explore below.

With the explosive growth of the internet and social media ue, distance is no longer a barrier to familiarity. It is possible and all-to-common for a person from a viral YouTube video to be recognized all around the world. This has literally lauanched careers for some folks. This power has an unintended effect though...it is creating the notion that that people look like this all the time. The "mom" who looks well-rested and has nice clothes and makeup doing a vlog makes other women feel less than for not meeting that standard. The athlete who is muscular makes men feel weak for not looking the same. The girl who sees a peer in a pagent or singing a silly song in a viral video can't understand why attention isn't given to her as well. For children, men, and women this is becoming dangerous. This is leading to serious mental health issues and making people feel incredibly insecure about their looks, body type, and what they wear. There is an idea that not making an effort to "fit in" means that you've given up trying and that can only have a negative effect on your mental health. 

In summary, I think that the constant social media blitzes chiming on our phones and laptops are causing serious issues in society. It is showing that they are giving far too much credability to these "celebrities" and allowing their values and expectations to be manipulated. This has been made even worse with the lockdowns and two-years worth of staying home throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. I would venture a guess that internet use and social media use increased dramatically from 2019 to 2020. We know that the pandemic has exacerbated mental health in a lot of people and I am particularly worried that the effect of comparing ourselves to celebrities will only make this phenomenon worse. Thank you for reading this small essay.

