Today, there is great emphasis on appearances and the image one projects. Whether it be in the media or advertistement for products, images and impressions play a large role in how people view others, products, and themselves. What we see, rather than what reality actually is, stands prominent in today's society. This could lead to false hopes and expectations. 

This essay confirms this thesis and claim. All too often, advertisers use images of beautiful people, sexual content and overtones, ultimately playing with our emotions to get us to believe, for example, a product is good and worthy of buying. This, regardless of the quality of the product, is all to often in today's society. I have found this to also be true in other areas of our society. For example, we have this unhealthy fascinated with Hollywood, their movies, and the actors that portray unique and convincing characters. An image of a beautiful slim body on the TV will give rise to false impressions that we all must look this way to fit in society. In reality, we are all unique people and should be happy with who we are rather than trying to reach this unatainable goal. Moreover, as I walk through the isles of stores I see low-grade products in colorul and attractive packaging; a clever marketing tool to get us to buy products of low quality or ones we do not really need. 

Some may say, however, that images and impressions give us things to strive for. To become better people, to look more beautiful, to buy products that will help our daily lives. However, I say this is false hope and not our true purpose or reality in life. Again, we are all unique in our own ways and should base our ideas and opinions on reality and real-word examples. 

In conclusion, unrealistic and often overblown appearances and images are engrained in modern society. Whether it be on TV, advertising, or other areas of our daily life, this has a great effect on our society. It would be better to focus on what is important in our lives and the reality we face everyday. We can still have hope, dreams, and prosper in a world without colorful images and unrealistic expectations. 


