What defines happiness? Is happiness something that only a selct amount of people can experience by the grace of chance? Or is there something more to it and is obtainable by everyone through a set of personal goals? Do those who set goals and meet them obtain happiness 100% of the time? Is it possible to not have any goals and life and still be happy? What if we focused our energy towards the happiness of others? These are all the questions you should ask yourself, and noone else when trying to define and find happiness.

Think of the man or woman in your life, or maybe someone that you watch on TV that looks and acts highly motivated. They set goals, reach those goals and make more goals. It may seem as though they have it all figured out. It may seem like they have less stress, less sadness in thier life and you may even envy them. What if I told you that the man or woman I just described is depressed, lonely, and borderline suicidal? That would be quite the shocker wouldn't it? The human psyche is a complex thing that still challenges scientist today. Some times our outward expressions dont reflect our inward emotions. The man or woman who you see updating their social media with daily gym selfies boasting their about their physique may be at that gym to battle depression. They appear happy, goal oriented and motivated, but deep down their insides are a mess. This is a great example of how and why focussing on personal goals isnt a guaranteed ticket to happiness.

Now let's look at the other end of the spectrum. Let's take for instance a homeless person that has lost it all and hit rock bottom. They are living on the streets in the same clothing that they wore months ago. They have very little food, very little motivation and no personal goals. I am willing to bet, if you were to approach a random homeless person and asked them for some spare change, the would be happy to give it to you assuming they had any. Why is this? Shouldn't they be miserable and unwilling to help others if they cannot even help themselves? Social experiements have shown that those who know struggle, those who have been through hell and have nothing to lose are more likely to help another human being than those who have wealth, power and "happiness". The point is the homeless person knows true happiness is helping others and they reep the rewards of giving when they have little to give. There is a story in the bible where a poor lady offered her last bit of money, all though it was little money compared to others who gave before her, it was more in the eyes of God than anyone had given. That lady found happiness in giving.

In conclusion, I believe those who strive to focus their goals on the happiness of others are more likely to find true happiness than those who look only to improve upon themselves. Outward expression isn't always a sign of inward expression.


