When we browse online or travel to any location we seen several ads during that short time. When we see ads based on certain products and services it changes the way we think during that time when we first see that ad. Majority of people tend to feel 3 main emotions postive, negative and urge to need something that they might not do in their daily lives. Ads tend to create the way we think about someone or product. 

First we are going to look into how ads may create a postive impression. When see a food ad and see a person smiling enoying their meal we tend to smile and have a desire to try the food. It may push people to try that new food which they may have never thought off. It sway people emotion to try something that they may never thought of something. Other postive ads can be vacation ads or something with pets such as dogs or cats. People are more likely to explore that options of spending large amounts of money to reach happiness based on the ad they just saw. 

While ads tend to create a postive emotion of people it can create negative impressions as well. Some ads can be plastic in the ocean it can may change people shopping behavior because they saw a negative ad want to do some postive change. Some people will feel bad because they saw a sea creature in pain because of plastic in the ocean. Sometimes it can be clothing commericals as well when we see models that look perfect we tend to be self consious of the way we look and tend to draw negative emotions towards us. The ad made us wish we looked a certain way. It can drive people to spend money to purcahse the clothing based on the ad they just saw or wanting to explore other options to look a certain way. Ads can make think about someone or a product a certain way based on what we see in the ad. 

We tend to judge most people within the first five seconds of meeting them based on the overall looks of that person. Ads have a similar impact since ad objective is to sway our opinon tocertain way. Politcal campaign ads are a perfect example as they have an effect on people. For example if a poltical person is running for mayor they want to show they are a good person and will images that will sway people to show this person is a caring person wants to do good. Plus they tend to show bright colors in the ad. If you are want to make your rivial look bad most political leaders tend to show dark colors and have images that can make the candidtate look bad. 

Overall ads are really powerful ways to sway people opinions. It can a mix emotions depending on the objective of the ad such as postive, negative or sway people viewpoints on certain things. It is important for people to realize that they should not be sway by ads or certain images easily.

