
In today's economy-driven, industrialized and commercialized world, cooperative behavior is rewarded with lasting relationships and long-term success. Although single individuals can drive significant breakthroughs, there is rarely a story of a self-made individual succeeding over time. We often hear names such as Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, and Bill Gates as successful people. Those people would not be in the position they are currently in without cooperative behavior. Cooperation is the root of success, and it does not detract from a competitive mindset.

There are many levels of integration if we talk about success. There is often a physical component and also a non-physical component. For example, the many iPhone products we see on a regular basis are "designed by Apple in California" but they are constructed and built overseas. There is a significant cooperative relationship between the masterminds of design and the actual labor that goes into the formation of the product. Without one another, there is no real tangible product. This relationship and cooperation between two parties allows for the worldwide distribution of products. In this example, there is such a complex organization including marketers, suppliers, distributers, and designers. A single team cannot do all of the above tasks. Therefore, the integration of so many various jobs relies on cooperation between vastly different groups of people. 

Cooperation and competition is not limited to the industrial setting. These concepts also apple to everyday life, where cooperation will succeed each and every time. Successful friendships, relationships, and families are founded on cooperation between parties. A cooperative party can often defuse an intense situation, whereas a competitive party will often escalate the situation. For example, during an argument between romantic partner where one is of a competitive nature, the argument will continue to escalate as this person will try to achieve the upper hand. Generally, this will lead to negative outcomes as the problem will not be solved. On the contrary, a cooperative relationship will generally resolve problems with compromise and consensus without the issue of escalation.

Some people argue that competition is the only way to success by developing superior quality, or by reducing costs significantly to be able to distribute products further. However, it is quite possible to engage in competition while remaining in cooperation. For example, cooperation can be achieved through re-negotiations of contracts. The cooperative element is preserved in the form on a mutually beneficial relationship. Competition can sometimes have negative effects that may be unforeseen. Displays of competitiveness can certainly show confidence, but it can also be interpreted as arrogance in some ways. An overly competitive individual or business can create problems in the long-way as they jeopardize the healthy relationships they have with workers and partners. Competitiveness also draws attention- sometimes negative attention. On the other hand, there is hardly a negative aspect of cooperation. People might claim cooperation is too weak for a cutthroat industry, but cooperation is the more intelligent method. 

Overall, cooperation is the best way to achieve success. This concept does not apply solely to the workplace. Cooperation is essential to social relationships, friendships, and personal well being. Being competitive will often cause one to become self-centered and self-focused. Unfortunately, the never ending competitive mindset will lead to exhaustion. It is okay to ask for help- in fact, it is necessary and a sign of a successful path. Rarely are there ever individuals who have succeeded by pure competitiveness. Those people will eventually get driven out by those who rely on the alternative method of cooperation. 
