Everyone knows the saying "A picture is worth a thousand words." But, is it really? What if the picture is an entire lie? This is the case all too often in today's media. Instagram "influencers" with their beauty filters that warp them into an entirely different looking person. Celebrities with photoshopped spreads in magazines that zero out any imperfections. Fitness "gurus" who hit just the right angle and lighting to make themselves appear thinner, more muscular, and less fat. Images and impressions, especially altered ones, have a robustly negative effect on people in general.
Teenagers growing up in today's age of technology generally have smart phones glued to their hands. They spend hours scrolling Instagram, learning dances for TikTok, and following their favorite influencers. These influencers are who teenagers look up to and follow for fashion, beauty, dating advice, etc. All too often the life that is presented on social media is considered "perfect": a toned and fit body, flawless skin and makeup, and a huge house and fancy car. The thing that most teenagers don;t understand is that all of this is edited and hand picked to LOOK like it is perfect, but the reality is much different. There has been a lot of pushback about filtered and photoshopped photos lately and the effect that they have on teenagers, especially teen girls. Children are comparing themselves to these false lives that influencers have created, and it is leaving them with body dysmorphia, eating disorders, and other mental illnesses. This is absolutely detrimental to our kids and I believe that something should be done about it. 
Some people think "Well, no big deal, it's just the internet and everyone knows it isn't real anyway." I think the issue with this argument is that a lot of younger people do not actually understand that it isn't real life that they are seeing. They think everyone lives the way that these influencers do. They think that there is something wrong with them for not being as pretty or fit as what they are seeing in photographs, television, social medias, etc. They don't understand why they don't live up to the unattainable expectations that society has placed upon them. 
In conclusion, I believe that the focus on appearing perfect and the images that are altered to achieve such a fantasy are extremely harmful to society in general. I think that we, as a people, need to learn to embrace our true selves and push for that in media and marketing. We need to reclaim our reality and teach the next generation that they are perfect just the way they are and that comparing themselves to a fantasy is an utter waste of time and energy. 

(I wrote this in about 12 minutes. It keeps yelling at me for being inactive, but I'm right here. It said not to navigate away so I'm not. Please do not withhold payment just because I write fast!) 

