Cooperation or Competition?  Do people achieve more success overall through cooperation or competition?  Some really celebrated and famous cases would suggest competition: we honor and celebrate the names of great atheletes who win gold in their events.  We chant the names of politicians who win elections.  We immortalize in monuments generals that conquer their foes.  Clearly, it has to be competition, right?  I'm going the argue the exact opposite and say cooperation is far more productive.

Let's begin by countering my examples above.  In any team event, even the star atheletes will tell you that their success is dependent on how well they are supported by their teams (and how well they mesh with their own team-mates).  And even in individual endeavors, every sports hero has a long line of coaches and trainers and parents and friends behind them too.  The politician who wins an election?  There is no chance that they won without a legion of cooperation: from close staff to humble assistants to the volunteers running telephone banks and knocking on doors.  And the general was leading an army when they won, right?  That army had to cooperate at multiple levels and in multiple ways to win any battle, let alone a war.

Businesses may compete with each other, but they have to cooperate and coordinate and pull together to succeed in that external competition.   Scientists rarely publish a paper with just one author, and they cite the inspiration from many sources that came before.  And in the course of that publication, the authors had to work together, and get results from their experiments and analyze them, usually depending on a whole array of research assistants.  Personally, I am a teacher, and as much as I can act sometimes like the 'Sage on the Stage' with my students, I develop my lessons cooperatively with my team, I my teaching with feedback from students, and there are times that some of them will utterly surprise me with a creative path I have never considered before.  Civilization itself is an essentially cooperative enterprise, that can allow diverse groups to work, however independently at any moment, to do things that benefit themselves and each other and exchange that work as economic activity.

I wish I could remember the attribution for the quote, but I am following the directions and staying on this page (I want to say Isaac Newton), "If I see further than most, it is because I stand on the shoulders of giants."  Even those people who make great breakthroughs as a result of individual efforts, do so only with the cooperation of others -- even if that coopertation is far off in time or space.
