Many believe that happiness comes from the obtainment of goals. They set goals that they believe would make them happy. For instance, to get a degree from a prestiguous university, to make 200k a year, to buy a house, to get married, to lose weight, and they work endlessly to obtain those goals. Unfortunately, this goal-driven pathway to happiness often leaves us empty. Rather, it seems that lasting happiness comes from our connections with and impact on others. Helping others become happy gives us a sense of fulfilment and purpose that may lead us to a more impactful state of happiness than the fleeting euphoric feeling of obtaining a goal.

An Olympian may train their whole life for a few minutes of glory. But once they succeed, how long does that euphoric feeling really last? While we might think that being a gold medal winner would make us feel amazing, that we would wake up every morning on top of the world, it does not seem that gold medal winners actually feel a sense of euphoria every day of their lives after winning the medal. Rather, it seems that gold medal winners adapt to the knowledge that they have won. Even though they may feel euphoric for a day or weeks, this state does and cannot exist forever. Eventually, they adapt back down to their usual emotional state. Once a goal state is realized, there is nothing left to work for. Soon, they may desire a new goal, like a world record. A second gold medal. A third. A fourth. Indeed, their gold medal win can even have unanticipated negative consquences, like obtaining bad friends, or needing to do national interviews. It seems that obtaining a goal (even a goal as big as a gold medal!) does not end in lasting happiness. 

Rather, what may end in lasting happiness is the feeling that you have made the world a better place than you left it. Athletes often note that they get the most pleasure from representing their country (not for representing themselves). They often "give back" by working for charities, or working to inspire or coach young athletes. From these activities, many note, they really get their sense of purpose. Selfish goals matter to you and you only, and they often die when you die. Eventually, their world record will be broken. It is our work to improve the lives of others and to spread our values that really helps us live on beyond our bodies, and therefore, it is the path to achieve lasting happiness.


