The belief that people achieve their happiness from helping others achieve their goals over their own is very accurate. I'm the type of person who achieves their happiness from seeing other people happy over my own happiness. There is nothing better than watching others be happy in my opinion, it releases a calming and exitced feeling in my own life to witness others happiness. It also makes me feel like I accomplished something important to be able to please others.

Some examples of this is with my family, I'll sacrifice things that I might want for myself so that they have what they want or need. It makes me very happy to see the happiness on their faces to get what they want.  Another example would be friends, I will back off from my wants and beliefs or feelings to make sure that they're happy or satisfied with the situation.  Another example would be work environments, I will try to keep everybody happy and calm so no stressful and unneccesary situations arise. Another example would be being around people with different beliefs than my own, I would just choose to stay quiet than try to push my views across, I don't like comfortations, People can become very angry over politics or religious beliefs. So I try to stay away from those topics. 

So My conclusion to this is yes some people would be happier if they focus on their own personal goals but I believe that is the very selfish way of thinking, sometimes you have to encourage people to push themselves to accomplise things, then in the long run it'll benefit your own lifestyle. Most of the time you'll be able to achieve your own happiness and goals if you take the time to help others first.  I get enivous sometimes seeing different people getting to do all kinds of different things for themselves but then I think what are they taking away from their familes. It's a sticky situation to give a deffinite answer to, and sometimes you'll never know. So I'll just continue on with what I believe to make myself and others happy and satisfied.  The world needs more kindness then the selfishness that this world is becoming. Kindness and being understanding doesn't  cost a thing, to become a better person. 












