          The argument over if competition or cooperation are better suited for success is an old one and one with many different outcomes. At the end of the day, the arguments to be made are as unique as the humans involved in the process and both models can achieve some form of success.
          It is my position that healthy competition is best suited to drive successful results. Healthy is the key inidicator here as many studies have shown that unhealthy competition is counter productive and can cause irreprable damage to relationships and ones image. Healthy competition on the other hand can drive one to be their best, promote all parties to work harder, and overall, drive results. Cooperation only on the other hand, can lead to complacency and less succcesful results as the goal will be to simply complete the task rather than complete it better than your competition. Both can technically achieve success if the goal is simply to finish the project, but to finish it and create a meaningful result can only be done through competition.
        Sports and athletics are a prime example of how competition can create success. Runners who run alone can do well, but runners who have someone to try and beat, can be faster, stronger, and better images of themselves. Sports teams who are constantly trying to best their rivals work longer, harder, and get more creative in their approach. A team who loses one match is bound to put in the work to make sure that never happens again. 
       Our very economic and societal system is another prime example of how competition can drive success. Most of the worlds modern innovations came from businesses who were trying to better the work done from previous generations. Railways replaced wagons, roads and planes replaced rails, engines replaced pedal operated vehicles. All innovations that were brought on by competition and a need to improve the existing system. This is also a prime example of the difference between healthy and unhealthy competition. Those who achieve their success via unsavory methods, think Enron, Bernie Madoff, etc, end up paying a bad price in the end. But with healthy competition, such as between Apple and Microsoft, have given us great leaps in technology and innovation. Ford and Ferrari gave us better race cars, Verizon and ATT gave us better networks, and the list goes on and on.
      As mentioned above, competition can also be negative, and those people/companies should and usually are punished. But healthy competition can create lasting rivalries, friendships, and mutual respect that build a strong foundation for success. This is all not to say that cooperation does not have its time and place. There are times where rivals need to come together to solve a problem, but the best results come when those rivals are pushing to beat each other. 
      As mentioned, this argument is nearly as old as time. It can shift depending on the time and situation. But overall, and if civilization was on the line, healthy competition is what would come to save it. 
