Modern society should be criticized for being too material because materialism is detrimental to the planet and detrimental of the well being of humans.  Materialism in a society leads to people amassing goods that they do not need and results in a huge waste of resources.  For example, many people are obsessed with fashion and as a result purchase more clothing than they need.  The textile industry is one of the leading sources of pollution in the United States consuming and disposing of chemicals and dyes used in the processing and manufacture of cloth and textiles.  Cotton requires fertilizers which pollute streams and groundwater.  Synthetic fabrics are made of chemicals or petroleum which also pollute the soil, groundwater, and surface water.  Additionally, the excess clothing ultimately ends up the landfills.  

Focus on material goods also convinces people to work longer and longer hours to be able to afford larger houses, bigger cars, and the latest electronic devices.  Because people are working longer hours, they are spending less time pursuing leisure activities, relaxing, or enjoying time with their families.  In general, possessions do not bring the same level of happiness that experiences, friendship, and love offer.  As work hours become longer, people becomes less happy.  The pursuit of material goods is adding stress to people's lives and generally resulting in a lower quality of life.

Because the gross national product is a measurement of the health of the economy, it could be argued that purchasing material goods is needed to keep our nation strong.  I believe this insistence that the economy must grow every year to be healthy is a fallacy promoted by corporations to ensure continued profits.  Corporate greed promotes materialism by producing advertisements aimed to convince the population they need more and/or newer products.  In the absence of corporate advertising, many people wouldn't even realize a product exists or that they "need" it.  A healthy economy should simply mean that the goods and services people need or want are available and that the majority of the population has access to a job that allows them the financial means to acquire the goods they really need in addition to a few extras.  

Less focus on amassing material goods in our society would benefit the entire planet and it's inhabitants.  Fewer goods purchased would reduce the amount of pollution and environmental impacts required during production and ultimate disposal of those items.  Also, if people purchased fewer things, they wouldn't need to earn as much money and could work fewer hours.  Those extra hours could be spent on more personally meaingful pursuits.
