The idea of images and impressions can take a toll on us as a society. Everywhere we go, everything we see is designed to draw us in to make us want to look at that object and eventually to make us want to purchase the object. Companies use bright color and seductive picture to make sure that the consumer does a double take and we are designed as human beings to be drawn towards these colors and images. So how does that effect us?

Images and impressions definatly have a huge effect on people. Imagine you are walking through the mall. You pass a clothing store and right there in the front window is a picure of a beautiful thin woman. She is wearing a pair of jeans that make her already thin waist look even thinner and curvier. You stop to stare at the picture and you want to know exactly what your body will look like when you put on that pair of jeans. Before you know it you are in the fitting room. No you are not as thin as the model in the ad at the front window, but the hope is that when you put the jeans on that you will see yourself the same way you saw the model. The next thing you know you are at the register buying the jeans. You did not go to the mall that day to get jeans. That was not the purpose of the outting, but simply by seeing an image in a store window you were drawn in and ended up making a purchase. 

We constantly see ads for items that make us wonder what if. What if i bought that perfume? What if i hired that attorney? What if I got that plastic surgery? Is this a good thing for us as people or is it bad?

The thing is that business cannot get by without advertising their products. It is important from a business perspective that you sell as much of a product as possible and the best way to sell a product is to present it in a way that is most appealing to the consumer. Sure a beauty company could just place a photo of bottle of perfume on a blank background and beg consumers to go buy it, but chances are that if they put the same bottle of perfume in the had of a beautiful woman then they will not have to beg. 

It is a double edged sword. The companies need to sell products and the consumer needs to not go into debt because they saw some really cute jeans. I believe that it is the job of the consumer to be smart and savvy when they see an ad. It is their job to decide whether or not they can afford the item or if they can buy it on impulse. Advertisers don't need to tone down their ads because consumers make bad financial choices. I don't believe that images and impressions have too much effect on people. I think that people are too stupid to make smart choices when it comes to impulse buying. The companies are only doing what is best for them while hoping that consumers will do what is worst for themselves. It is our jobs as consumers to make smart and informed decisions. 

We have so much information at our fingertips that when we do not take the time to do our research to find the best deal or learn about the lives our public figures then the fault only lies with us. Not with the creators of the images and impressions that we see around us each day. 


