      Materialism is something that has become more and more of an issue as the years go by. It is omnipresent, regardless of where we are. A simple walk in any major city, one will see billboards of new perfumes, clothing, jewelery, etc amongst the hundreds of shopping centers advertising the next best brand of whatever item the stores are selling. Even if one chooses to stay home, if he or she decides to turn the television on, he/she will be lulled into advertisements and product placements in the TV shows watched. I believe modern society should absolutley be critized for being too materialistic. 
      Living too materialistically takes away from the richer aspects of life, such as being spiritually in-tune with what we are and the different life experiences we can have if we weren't so consumed with buying more and more. The issue with placing too much importance on materialism is that the void we are trying to fill will never be sufficiently filled. We will always be left wanting more and more no matter what we buy. Buying new items produce a very temporary state of happiness. I think we all, in some way or another, value happiness and would choose to be genuinely happy over being miserable. Because materialism can only produce temporary happiness, it is a band-aid solution to our quest for fulfillment.
      In my mind, true fulfillment comes from experience; love, giving, meditating. One may counter-argue and posit "who cares if the happiness I get from buying a new car is temporary? I still experienced that happiness and doesn't that in and of itself count for something good?" Of course this does produce happiness, however it creates a dangerous mindset that one can only be happy if material goods are obtained. There is way too much of an emphasis placed on material items in our modern society, to the point where we almost forget our human nature and what really fulfills us. Feeling connected to others, breathing in and feeling our hearts beat and wind brushing against our skin. The little things that are endless if we choose to focus on them rather than the newest Ipod. 
