It has been consistently proven that cooperation breeds more success than competition. Though this is inherently against the rules and beliefs of capitalism, the economic system that dominates our society, individuals often rebuke this and opt to cooperate, not compete, for longer lasting, more fulfilling results. With cooperation, individuals can stretch the burden and cost, lessening their own sacrifices, and build by pooling resources and relying on community. Competition sets every man out for himself and puts money  and economic success over relationships, something that may be beneficial in the shortterm, but in the longterm, humans are wired for community and a group of people is obviously more skilled and knowledgable than one individual. 

Competition is heavily touted by business owners and successful individuals. I think that this may be a tactic to actually keep the competition at bay by encouraging them to engage in behaviors that the successful people did not, in fact, engage in themselves. In the business world, by constantly competing with other businesses, one may find themselves either creating a monopoly or a price war. Especially with the economic conditions today, increased prices, whatever the cause, can easily price out many loyal consumers and companies are closing at a record pace. If these companies instead operated with a method of cooperation, not only with other businesses but also with their customers, they would be able to find a compromise to make everyone happy. They may not be able to achieve the same short term large profit, but they would be able to remain in business to continue to profit for years to come. 

Among successful individuals competition has been instilled as a necessary component for not only getting to the top, but remaining there. We see this among business owners, star athletes, politicans, and others who engage in questionable tactics to hold onto their success at whatever cost. Athletes often reach the highest levels of fame by being part of a team - by working well with their teammates, by listening to their coaches, and by the unconditional support of family and friends who help them devote time to their craft. However, in mainstream society, this is often seen as an individual endevaor and shown to kids as such, creating a divide between the star athlete and others on their team. Even within the team, we have become so committed to this idea of competition, we pit teammates against each other. If we let go of the idea that there can only be one superstar and instead look to create a well rounded team with good chemistry and where roles, skills, and tasks are divided and delegated based on talent and need, the teams could continue to excel even further. And if we drop the idea of even just success and look at everyday individuals and the political arena, we can clearly see that competition and holding onto one's views as the only ones that are right and not at all engaging in compromise has not benefited anyone. Competition of ideas is just as dangerous as competition for profits and business. When there is no working together and one side wanting to win out, entirely, the majority will lose simply based on that premise. Throughout the course of history, when one philosophy has dominated a country, it has never resulted in a positive result. The most successful times in history have come through cooperation, compromise, and recognizing that both sides have merit and are worthwhile. 

In American society, this idea of competition has come from the very beginning. We have interpreted Darwin and latched onto his idea of survivial of the fittest as our mantra and used it to justify our actions and whatever costs those might incur. However, while we see Darwin's idea at play in the animal kingdom, we should be working to show how far we, as people, have come. That we have been able to separate ourselves from the animals, from our basic instincts, and created a society and culture that can benefit everyone. If we worked with other countries to combine our technology, instead of engaging in the "space race," do you think we would have simply stopped at landing on the moon? Imagine a world where we live in harmony, share resources, and are not focused on securing borders to hoard our wealth and labor. What could we achieve if we all worked together? What kind of world would that look like? Our current state of affairs, with nuclear war looming, with so much economic uncertainty, with deep political divisions, rampant violence, and a bleek future outlook, that should be enough evidence to show that competition has gotten us nowhere. And by continuing to double-down on this philosophy in our darkest times, we can ensure that competition will only drive us further apart. And even the animals that Darwin discussed knew that they needed to work together. 
