It has been widely debated for many years whether or not competition or cooperation yields the most success in working environments. While everyone may have their own opinions, it's easy to see that cooperation is the best method when it comes to completing tasks in the workplace. Cooperation not only makes tasks go by quicker because of the teamwork aspect, but it also helps individuals to build stronger relationships with their teammates.
If we look at competition, it's usually a source of conflict amongst individuals within a group. A competition based system makes people more focused on winning than finding a solution to the problem at hand. Teamwork is often thrown out the window because everyone is fighting for the winning spot. By encouraging this sense of rivalry between coworkers, it almost always gurantees conflict within the workplace. Competition can also set employees up for failure because everyone has their own individual strengths and weaknesses, so by expecting employees to work alone, it's impossible for them to focus on what they're really good at. The work that comes from competition will be subpar compared to the work that comes from cooperation. Cooperation allows every person within the office to fill their niche and create an end result that they can all be proud of. Coming together to work on a project almost always ensures success because each employee can bring what they're good at to the table.
So, competition isn't nearly as beneficial as cooperation is because it encourages conflicts and forces employees to focus on winning rather than solving the problem. It has been proven that cooperation helps employees to reach a solution faster and it allows them to feel closer to their coworkers since they're not battling each other for a promotion. When everyone in the office is on the same page they can find places for their individual strengths. The project will move smoother and everyone at the office will be much happier in the end when a system of cooperation is adopted.
Overall, it's not hard to see that cooperation is the superior method to acheiving great things within the workplace. It allows people to access the skills that they have and apply them to the project in the most efficient way. Instead of figihting each other, they can all come together to produce a product that they're all proud to put their names on. Not only is cooperation good for creating a better product, but it also boosts employees relationships with one another which can lead them to even more success in the future. Cooperation is the best method to ensure success in the workplace.
