Happiness comes in many different forms for many different people. One may find happiness in the mundane whereas another finds happiness with excitement. For some people happiness is about the people or family that they surround themselves with. For others happiness is about their achievments and all that they have done in life to get to where they wanted or intended to be. Despite our love for our family and our neighbors I believe most people find happines when they focus on their own personal goals as opposed to focusing on making others happy.

People are designed to seek out the things in life we need. Happiness is a need and as such, on a biological level we do what we need to in order to be happy. Fulfilling ones goals can go a long way toward making one happy. When we are young we dream of what we will do with ourselves and how we will get there. These dreams we tend to see ourselves happy and as we grow older we strive for that feeling for that accomplishment that will mean the world to us. We value something to chase and that chase and result typically ends in our happiness. If we cannot make ourselves happy then we would certainly struggle to make and keep others happy. By having a vision or a goal set forth, we challenge ourselves to reach for happiness and once there it's a great feeling. Helping others be happy can make one happy but it does not usually have the same staying power as meeting or beating our personal goals. It is in most cases fleeting as that person's happiness may not last but a moment where as a personal goal is sometimes a lifetime of work.

Some may argue that making others happy can lead one to happiness more so than focus on their goals. This can be true of some individuals. Some people achieve happiness when they see that they have made the day for another. These folks work to provide for others and that alone makes them happy. For some they are not selfish and only think of others. They put others first and are concerned with making those people happy without any consideration for themsevles. However, it can be said that making others happy to make yourself happy is in of itself a personal goal. Focusing on other's happiness is a great thing but focusing on ourselves and our goals will make the individual happier.

Happiness depends on the individual, sometimes we can achieve it through different means. For the majority our happiness is determined by how we strive and achieve our personal aspirations. If we can envision something great for ourselves and achieve it even if it is making others happy then we have reached our personal goal to be happy. By focusing on our own happiness only then can we attempt to make others happy as well.
