     I believe that people put too strong of an emphasis on images and the impressions that people have of them.  This is not a new development, but in recent years it has only increased.  Social media sites such as Instagram and Facebook has only made our focus on physical appearance that much stronger.  Many people also state that they feel like they are passed over at work or for jobs in favor of more attractive and less qualified people.  Other people used to have more of a personal opinoin on matters, but it seems that the birth of social media has caused almost a group mentatlity about everything.  

    The growth of social media, especially Instagram and Facebook has caused many people to completely alter who they are as people.  So many people are more concerned with their online personna than they are with their actual reputation.  The amount of young people that flock to social media for acceptance, instead of their parents and peers seems to be growing daily.  The majority of young people I meet are more self absorbed and insecure about themselves, which seems to be from their social media accounts.  This is, I believe, due to the pressures they feel to fit in online.  They work so hard for acceptance that they lose themselves in the process.  It is no longer acceptable to have their own opinions, they have to pick a side and staunchly defend it.  The 'us vs. them' mentatlity is further dividing our country and causing peoples uniqueness to be undervalued.

     Some people say that young people have always been insecure and they always looked towards their peers for acceptance.  I agree, to some degree.  It seems that this kind of behavior is more typical in much younger people than it had been in the past.  I believe this is because of social media.  People say social media has it's upsides;  bringing people toegether, making people feel less alone, etc.  This can be true, but the bullying and unacceptable behavior is much more rampart online.

     In conclusion, I believe that the rise of social media is what is damaging our countries self esteem as a whole.  If we could remind our children, and our selves, that we are more than a profile picture online we will be happier and more well rounded people.  Giving our worth back to our hearts and souls will increase the happiness in our lives.

