There are many opinions about cooperation and competition, and which one is more effective in helping people find success in all areas of their lives. While we may never reach a definite conclusion that everyone will completely agree upon, I believe that more success will usually be found through cooperation than competition. There are many elements to consider in this debate, and while it would be impossible to summarize all sides and elements of this debate, I will try to highlight what I believe to be the most convincing reasons why I believe that cooperation is the better option for true, long-term success.

Cooperation leads to higher levels of success for a number of reasons, but key among them, in my opinion, is less distraction. When people cooperate and work together towards a common goal, their sole focus can be on what they're working towards and how to best accomplish that goal. When people are competing with one another in the pursuit of a goal, they have the distraction of that competition, how they think they're performing, how they think everyone else is performing, etc., and that can distract them from the actual work and finding the best solution to move forward and solve the problem or complete the goal to the best of their ability. The way I view it, competition equals distraction, and distractions do not bring out the best work a person is capable of. In addition, when people work together, there is often a sharing of ideas that can lead to even better ideas; when people get together to share their thoughts and ideas on how to solve a problem or reach a goal, there can be an element of building on one another's thoughts and ideas, where one good idea can then bring an even better idea in the cooperation and brainstorming phase. If you are competing with one another, this element of collaboration is lost.

Yet another positive that comes out of cooperation is the ability to allow each person to work in a way that uses their strengths. In a cooperative environment, once the group has identified what they're working on and how they plan to achieve it, they can also discuss which person is best suited to tackle each part of the problem or process. This allows a group with a wide variety of skills to each handle items or tasks that they would be best at, and should increasse the overall quality of the work being completed. Utilizing everyone's skills throughout the process will result in a higher quality outcome for everyone involved.

A good example of the value of cooperation versus competition can be found by looking at car dealerships. Of course the end goal of any car dealership is to sell cars, so some dealerships have sales goals and/or competitions among their salespeople, with rewards and recognition for the employees who sell the most cars. While that all makes sense from a sales perspective, it does not always work the way it is intended. In this competitive sales environment, salespeople will be much more aggressive and forward with any potential customer that walks through the door, wanting to make sure they engage this potential customer first and don't lose out on the chance for a possible sale to add to their tally. This environment, however, can actually end up driving customers away, as they can feel as though they are being preyed on by salespeople who only care about selling a car, and don't care about doing right by the customers. This enviroment can make customers feel suffocated and ultimately can lead to them leaving and choosing a more pleasant and less pressured experience at a different dealership. On the other hand, if there is a car dealership where there aren't any sales goals or recognition for the best salesperson, customers will likely feel welcomed and helped, without being overwhelmed or feeling pushed by a salesperson. That way, the best salesperson can help each customer, identifying what the customer is seeking, and working to help this customer by making sure the best salespeople, with the most relevant knowledge and experience related to what the customer is looking for, are the ones to work with that particular customer. Basically, the competitive nature created by pitting salespeople against each other can actually result in lower sales overall, as pushy salespeople may drive customers away.

There are some who will argue that competition is the only environment that will truly get the best out of people, and the suggestion may also be made that the best ideas are born out of competition. There is certainly a time and a place for competition, and it can be helpful in certain scenarios to create a level of intensity or focus for some people. These situations and scenarios, where competition truly brings out the best results, are few and far between, as the end result of competition more often is frustration, hostility, and a lack of focus on the actual true end goal. Some people do thrive in an environment of competition, and those people may need to find ways internally to convince themselves that there is an element of competition in what they're working on, even if it is just internal competition to challenge themself to deliver the best possible output for the goal or project they are working on. Overall, however, most people do not come up with their best ideas or best work when they feel under pressure and are in competition with others. In addition, the stress of competing with others can often take a mental toll on people, meaning that they have feelings of anxiety, worry, or stress, and those mental struggles will almost certainly not lead to the best possible output by that person, which will then lead to more stress as they recognize they are falling behind in the competition, which can be an evil cycle that they can't break out of.

In conclusion, I believe that success will be more commonly found at the highest levels when people work together in cooperation to achieve a goal instead of competing with one another. The improved mental health, clarity, and lower stress levels will all help people focus on what the true goal is, and how to best accomplish it, when they cooperate with one another and use each other's ideas and skills to help generate the best possible solution and the best way to accomplish that solution. Cooperative environments will lead to people who feel more fulfilled and satisfied with what they and their group have accomplished.
