I work in a highly collaborative, yet small, development team. Our team has worked together to successfully ship products, on time, for the past 3 years.  We do this through a self-developed framework where everyone has a say in all aspects of the product: visual design, sound, implementation, etc., whether or not they were directly involved in developing that area. This is the only way we can be sure to create products we're all proud of, and all invested in. I find this cooperative approach to be much less stressful, and much more conducive, to a healthy work environment. Internal competition, on the other hand, creates a hostile environment where everyone is more concerned with themselves than they are in the product that we're putting out.

While competition among our external competitors is to be expected, it has no place internally among the team. When we embrance cooperation, we not only create a positive environment for everyone, but we allow different viewpoints to be respected. This goes into the quality of our product. For every viewpoint a co-worker has that I don't share, there are thousands of potential customers that share that same view that we would be missing out on if I took a dismissive, competitive approach.

Some feel that the best way to "move ahead", and be successful, in business is to be competitive; trying to one-up and outshine the rest of their team. Rather than share in the victories of the entire team's success, they're more interested in the credit they can take. While, in some environments, this can lead to short term gains in compensation, it comes with the sacrifice of creating a stressful environment that doesn't promote growth for the company. It introduces a key-man reliance that can hurt the entire team should the most competitive, knowledgable, person ever leave.

Humans aren't designed to spend 40+ hours a week in a competitive environment. We all need the benefits of positive social interaction; inside and outside of working hours. We can be more healthy, productive, and successful if we all cooperate and work together to achieve collective goals.
