Just about everyone everywhere has a cellphone, access to the internet, and several other possessions that make our daily lives easier. However, are these items that may make life easier necessary to survival? For many people, the answer would quickly and quite simply be a definite yes. Owning items or lots of electronics should not be criticized for being materialistic because they can be lifesaving, they can bring joy, and society as a whole has changed very much over the past century.

Living in the current day and age, many people grow up with a certain technology level available to them. As we grow older, the technology generally ages and upgrades over the years. A prime example is with the original PlayStation system, xBox, original iPhones, and the Nintendo 64. While it may not be necessary to own these original items because they are not in production and nothing is made for them anymore, they still hold a large nostalgia factor. Hanging on to these items or even going out and collecting them is nothing someone should be criticized for in a sense of materialisticism because they are bringing joy actively to the owner just by owning them. One of the rights in the amendments is the right to pursue happiness, which includes happiness brought by items. 

Following the generational transition from baby boomers to millenials to generation z and so forth, the amount of mental health illnesses has consistently trended up. Our understanding of mental illnesses is always growing as well, which helps identify it in people at younger and younger ages. Many families are broken households that consist of only one parent amongst multiple children. There area also many people who cannot make enough money to provide their children with large amounts of toys and things that they want. When these children grow up and purchase all the things they wanted when they were younger, this is just simply following the pursuit of happiness. If it brings joy in the moment by being materialistic then the purchases would be well worth it. 

Some may argue that being materialistic is childish or a waste of money. However, those who find this to be a waste of money do not take into recognition that every individual has their own personal tastes. Each person enjoys different activities for recreation. Assuming the basic needs are met, (food, shelter, clothing, water, transportation, bills) then the money spent on the items would be considered recreational use. This person may not be partaking in alcohol consumption or partying, which means that their money is still not wasted as it is a general recreational use.

Clearly, with the world's ever changing developments in technology, disease, and population, it is okay to be materialistic. No one knows when the next pandemic will hit, when the next natural disaster will wreak havoc, or when it will just naturally be their time to pass. If one posseses the means to take care of their essential living needs and still induldge in the materialistic matters then it should never be frowned upon or judged.
