I do not think that images and impressions have "too much of an effect on people." It is our only means of ingesting information and a huge part of human nature. Animals use visual imagery to attract mates, like birds with beautiful colors to attract opposite sex birds. Or animals that do funny walks or dances to establish dominance. Some even fight, like elks locking horns to impress females. Our brains are wired to be attracted to the sexier, stronger, better looking things in life. So marketing is just an extension of this. 

How could one sell something if it was not displayed in a positive light? How could a company make big profits if their great item in a not-so-great package, or very plain package, didn't attract buyers? No different than a bird showing its beautiful under feathers to get attention. If the item (or person, celebrity, etc.) doesn't meet expectations after that, well then, that is a different story. But the impression is not in error. As long as their are no "lies" - promises the product or person doesn't keep, then where is the error in morals, standards, i.e. Kudos to the experts who figured out how to facilitate the attractons.

Good for the entertainer, politician, or product company for using quality marketing to promote their product whether it be a person, place, service or thing. Why shouldn't it be given it's best shot? Some photos of ourselves are not the greatest, especially in this day of iphones and selfies and social media. But we don't use the poor quality ones. We don't want to be portrayed as anything but wonderful, even though everyone knows we all have good and bad days. 

So, a second thought to peruse would be that we as higher thinking animals do know better. How can we be fooled? Who doesn't know that every picture of that famous celebrity isn't a beauty? Who doesn't know about filters and photoshop in this day and age? Who would buy a product that seemed mediocre at best? That one brand of apples all taste the same but we still touch them all and choose the most perfect looking one. Our brains are programmed to be attracted the best, braviest, prettiest one. Remember the birds and the elks? 

We do know that "that" diet isn't going to make us skinny. Especially "that" diet pill. And "that" face cream isn't going to make us beautiful. Maybe we want to believe that. Because we have the internal brain knowledge to know better. And we do it any way. And feel sad, disappointed and tricked, anyway.

So, is it the birds with the most beautiful feathers fault if the mate isn't thrilled later? Or if they didn't reproduce (the results were not as exprected)? Is it the advertisers and marketing firms fault if the product inside doesn't work great? Or the online profile owner on the dating site for putting only the best photos online? Or is it our own fault for not thinking it through first? For not researching before buying? Like a gambler who knows the odds and bets anyway. We teach our children to think before they act, yet we could blame packaging and advertising for our disappoints? Perhaps our expectations are way out of line. Perhaps we enjoy that exaggerated hope of the one-in-a-million chance that this will be the one! The one blind date that turns into true love, the one face cream that makes us truly look 10 years younger, that one diet pill that you can just take at bedtime and get skinny with no other diet or exercise changes!

Who are WE kidding? They are not fooling us. We are foooling ourselves. How much of deception is self deception. Eckhart Tolle would probably have so many words to say regarding this subject. His writings apply to this perfectly in regards to expectations. But who shares a terrible picture of themselves with the world? Especially when you are trying to attract someone, or something? Is it a lie or is it the best use of what we have? Our "best side." I'll take the best side any day and the responsibility of the "deceptive" decision also. Because I want the one with the prettiest feathers in my life and  I want to show my best feather colors, too. So - "too much of an effect" - no, not unless we let ourselves be deceived.
