The topic of images and impressions is one that is more prevalent today than ever before. The arguement that "Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people" is absolutely true. Dating back for years the first thing that comes to mind when I think of this topic is social media and advertising when it comes to women. This has been an ongoing issues for several years, and just now in 2021-2022 we are starting to see more advertisements and inclusion of plus size women. There are several modern examples of how images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.
Images and impressions are not only prevalent among women, but men as well. People in general feel more pressure to look better in order to succeed. We see it everyday in jobs, dating apps, and social media. It is a common consensus that many people portray themselves one way to the public through social media that is not factual to how their life really is. Reality TV shows like Keeping up with the Kardashians portray the pressure that people are under to keep up with their looks, including plastic surgery and extreme dieting. One the contrary, arguments can be made that these pressures can be a positive as they encourage us to be healthy, workout, and stay fit. While this is true, there is a difference between wanting to look good and feel good for YOU, versus wanting to look good to impress others. Impressing others is the message that social media encourages. Reality shows, magazines, and even modern movies often times promote that the better looking you are, the better you will do. Dating apps are also very popular today in order to meet people, and the basis of a dating app is to first judge a person on their looks and swipe based on what they look like. 
While society as a whole has been making some strides to be more inclusive and body positive, the pressure to look good is still strong and present. When you login to Facebook, Instagram, Tik Tok, Tinder, etc. you will see all over people posting pictures that 9 times out of 10 are either filtered or edited to look better than what they actually are. It is sad that we feel we must do this, but it is the way society is at this point in time. I personally have filtered pictures in order to look better or to make the lighting better for my figure than what the original photo actually portrayed. Why? So that people I am friends with think I look good. Social media has promoted the behavior and made it easier to people to make their images have an impression on others. While it is a good thing to look good in order to make yourself mentally feel good and mentally well, it is unfortunate how much images and impressions really do effect other people. 
