               Materialism is the thing that everybody to follow our culture. In this modern life we forget about our culture and disciplines. We are missing our real happiness and culture because of following our modern life. In modern life we have to spend more time to earn money. But we did not have time to enjoy our life. Money is the matter to live a happy life.
      

              In our ancient culture, we are enjoying our life in every minute of our life. We have lived in a joined family. We spend more time with our relationships and doing special for our loved one. So that we can enjoy our life. But we did not have time to spend with family members. This modern life become more materialitic. But we spend more time to earn money and all are money minded.


              In ancient life, people of same family know everything about everyone. They doing such special things for them to their special days. Each of the family members enjoy that moment, that will be the most memorable days of everyone in their life. Particularly time, time is the precious gift in all our life. Now we are in a running society. We did not have time to convocate each other. We are all living in a machine world. Machine is a communication tool so that we loss our happiness. So all are recall our ancient life and teach our culture and ancient life about our children and 
youngster and enjoy our life happily.
                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                       
                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      

                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                     
