I believe that people achieve more success by cooperation than competition. While competition may provide a bit of a push to get where you're going, cooperation will get you there faster and with better results. I believe in this world, the more help you have, the better your results. 

When you are in competition with people, it can be a long and lonely process. You are constantly under pressure to produce ideas, and then to protect those ideas from the people with whom you are competing. You won't know how much success you have until your project is done, and by then it may be too late. Additionally, you run the risk of closely duplicating someone else's idea, by accident. If they get their idea out of the gate first, you will be out of luck. Rivalry can cause stress and anxiety as you wonder what your competitors are doing and whether they will beat you to the punch.

In contrast, when you are working in cooperation with people, you have help generating ideas. You have other minds to bounce things off of, helping to refine the ideas and continuously improve until you get the one that you all agree is perfect. Often with teamwork, you will have people who think differently from one another, providing various solutions to work through problems that you may not be able to work through on your own. When you get stuck, you can ask your team members for ideas. When they get stuck, they can ask you. 

Some people do not like to share the glory with a team, and would rather keep it all for themselves. However, I feel like success is multiplied by the number of people with whom you can share it. My own successes have largely been a result of cooperation and teamwork. I always work better when I have someone off whom I can bounce ideas, and someone with whom to celebrate when the task is done. I love being part of a team. 

Ultimately, I believe you can achieve more success by working in cooperation with other people rather than going it solo. As they say, Team work makes the dream work!" 
