We largely base our understading on what we can see for ourselves, and give far more weight to what we can see in our initial impression than what we might read later. However, these visions can be altered by our psychology and substances that change our psychological state. That's why it's so insidious when advertisers exploit our psychology to appeal to us in an underhanded and subconscious way. Because we place so much value on our vision, images and impressions have an enormous effect on people. This is to our detriment for a variety of reasons: unfair dismissal of candidates based on superficial judgements, false convictions in the criminal justice system due to unreliable eyewitness testimony being given so much weight, and vulnerability to accept harmful products (or at least not question them) based on their appearance.

One example of how superficial judgements based on impressions can unfairly dismiss candidates is Howard Dean. Dean was a presidential candidate that was potentially on the path to success. However, he had one moment of enthusiasm that killed his campaign - and the media ensured that it did. A boisterous "yeah" at a rally was played on repeat endlessly on both the news and late night television. What might just be a single slightly uncomfortable moment was magnified by the overemphasis on it in media. Because people were exposed to it so much, it became more negative in their minds. Thus, Howard Dean's campaign was ruined.

The most harmul effect of putting so much weight on images and impressions is that it leads to injustice. Photo arrays are what people typically think of when it comes to identifying suspects. However, people's memories aren't as good as they think, and police can have a huge influence on which suspect is picked. There's lots of subconscious cues from an officer when showing a witness a photo array. They may already have a suspect in mind and want to lead the witness to select them. A gentle nudge can quite literally convict an innocet person. Juries will see a witness pointing to the defendant in the courtroom as more credible than even the most sophisticated forensic evidence sometimes. The high status we give our vision, without understanding the limitations of it, makes us culpable in these miscarriages of justice.

Harmful products also exploit our vision. The example I'll use is herbal supplements. Many are harmless and might even have positive effects, but there's very little regulation of them in the US, leading harmful actors to exploit impressions with misleading packaging. Green is an especially favorite color to imply something is natural. It doesn't actually have to be natural, and it doesn't even have to be 100% pure of the herb advertised, but the green makes many people think so. Advertising appeals to our emotions, and very few people read the fine print or question something presented as natural.

There's certainly other reasons why things in my examples happen besides vision, but I argue that images and impressions still exert a heavy influence. Politics is complicated, and there were certainly multiple factors considered in Howard Dean dropping out. However, the humiliation of him by being relentlessly joked about in the media gave him a soured first impression on potential voters who didn't know much about him. Some may argue that false convictions aren't that common, so slight influences to witness testimony isn't actually harmful. Actually, the majority of accused criminals don't go to trial to plead their innocence, but rather accept plea deals for lesser sentences. So, we can't know how many suspects were falsely identified by a photo array but just sucked it up and pled guilty to avoid a harsher sentence. Any innocent person going to jail is a tragedy. As for product advertisements and packaging, there's an argument that the burden falls on the consumer to do their due dilligence. However, the flood of advertising is unrelenting in our culture, and even looking up information online results in seeing more advertisements. We need consumer protections because many people are vulnerable to false advertising, not due to personal faults but because of how their brain works.


My husband's therapist once had a brilliant line: "everything is psychology." At first, that might seem like an exaggeration and gross simplification of the world, but it's true if you think about it. We don't see exactly what our eyes see. There's lots of mechanics in our eyeballs and optic nerve that adjust the images in front of us, and then it's up to our brain to interpret these images. How you're feeling can affect what you see (or don't see), and in turn what you see can affect how you feel. Every opinion we have is based on stimuli we've been exposed to, and every action is informed by our psychology. Our vision is our primary and most engaging sense to absorb stimuli, giving it enormous weight in our psychology. How could you argue that images and impressions don't have too much of an effect when everything you know is informed by what you have seen in your life? However, even if it is too much, it's all we got. We can't blame ourselves for the excess when it's so ingrained in our biology. Sometimes truths aren't satisfying, and we can only do our best to understand our own limitations and biases to avoid our impressions having too much influence.
