As an American, most are raised from birth with the concept that if you pick yourself up by your bootstraps, anything is possible in life. As a nation founded on the belief that the only limit to your possibilities is yourself, there is a permeating feel that pushing oneself and competition is a part of success. While that is absolutely true when the only person dependent on your success is yourself, it does not always pan out that way in a business. The moment multiple people are responsible for the outcome and success of a project or business, the methodoly of success completely changes. I would argue that in a cooperative environment, competition amongst teammates can actually kill progress. 

It is a difficult concept to translate over to generations of people that have been taught from childhood to be the best - aim for valedictorian, get the top scores, distinguish yourself, break away from the herd, etc. Convincing someone who has been raised to believe that group success drowns the potential of the individual is a hard sale. But, in order to have a succcessful teamwork environment, everyone on the team must be bought into the idea of cooperation and group goal. For example, if a business has a universal sales goal and each team within the business is responsible for different aspects, the entire goal will be shot if the individual teams don't work together to complete their respective parts. Who cares if you had the best marketing strategy if you weren't willing to collaborate with the people actually implementing the sales tactics and producing the end result numbers? The best on a sinking ship would actually be the worst for the team because they didn't do anything to help achieve their goal - just to help themselves. 

In a business or teamwork environment, the true champions and the best achievers are able to shine as an individual because of how well they can work together with their teammates and produce results no matter how dissimilar work styles are and personalities. As funny as that sounds, in the competition of teamwork success, it is those individuals that blend in as a teammember that stand out. Those that have a reputation of insisting on being the top for themselves generally are blamed for the failure of the team. Now, this seems counterintuitive where things like product sales are involved. Aren't individual sales persons encouraged on a team to sell as much product as possible and be rewarded? Yes - to an extent. Still, encouragement of the team as a whole is still the paradigm. Let's take Kaiser Permanente for example. While each team member has a personal bonus structure they can earn individually, the gateway to determining whether that bonus will even be awarded is universally applied. The entire medical center needs to meet their bonus gateway before individuals are allowed. In other words, if the entire medical center doesn't reach its financial goals or membership growth, then the individual bonuses are not award for individual performance. Again, if the business dollars aren't there, the individual performance is irrelevant. Looking at only the individual will utlimately lead to failure, no matter how great the performance. 

While competition is certainly healthy for an individual, this is only going to lead to success when you only have yourself to rely on. A sprinter in the Olympics certainly needs to be the best in his or her own field, but a relay team member had better learn how to do hand-offs and by in sync with his team in order to win. The moment your choices can affect the outcomes for others in a group, cooperation needs to take precedence. The self has to take a back seat to what looks best for the team. Incorporating the strengths and recognizing the weaknesses of each team member is critical in ensuring the success of a team. If the individual is the focus for the success of the team, all of that person's weaknesses and strengths will control the outcome for everyone. And if we are talking about competition, the individual focused team will never be able to compete with another team that has capitalized on the best aspects and strengths of each person rowing the ship. 
