Materialsm has really become synonomous with capitolism. The western world is constantly showing off by putting its wealth on display. Is materialism really all that it is made out to be?  Does the aqusition of goods and materials really make people happier? Is this more of burden than a joy?  Does buying all of these things really provide people with a sense of fulfillment?

Despite the benefits of materialism, it really does bring more sadness than happiness. There is a level of acquisition that makes people beleive that they always have to buy more and no matter what it is that they have, it is never enough. You must always keep up with others to keep from falling behind. This has driven some people to go into debt to get amazing Christmas gifts for their kids so that they don't stand out and get bullied at school. Those who do have nicer things continually use it as a means to seperate people and belittle those who are not as fortunate as themselves.  Materialism also burdens people's available space and crowds their homes. People keep wanting something new for whatever reason, and eventually they run out of space to put it. This either deminishes their mental health by adding stress to their homes, or it forces them to spend more money on storage. This has lead to a resugrence of contempory design and philisophy that has been rebranded as minimalism. With minimalism, people are rejecting the constructs of materialism and reducing their overal footprint and possessions to something much closer to necessity instead of desire.

The availibility of material goods does provide the means to simplify people's lives.  Industrialism has allowed for cheaper goods, better ammenaties for people, and better overall helathcare. It allows people to live longer, live more comfortably, and has allowed people to afford items that they would not have been able to afford previously.  Materialism promotes countries which enhances tourism and brings more money and noteriety to the area. 

In the end, materialism and industrial production has lifted up some areas of society, while the commercialism and consumerism that comes with it has added material, financial, and mental anguish to others. Humanity is constantly trying to use their own features and status to beat others down in an superficial attempt to raise themselves to a better standing. Materialism has been weoponized for centuries in the same way race and religion has. There is no perfect solution, but sociatal wealth always looks good on paper and supports a nation overall while beating down its average citizens. 
