Today we are going to talk about materialism. More specifically, in today's day and age should we be criticizing others for materialism? I'm going to address this topic from my viewpoint using a couple of examples, then address what I believe a person with the opposite viewpoint would say, and I will provide examples for that as well.
Materialism is something that seems pretentious and snobby, but in today's day and age we are fixated on having things. We are raised as children being told by our parents that brand doesn't matter, and less is best, but as we grow our peers (who are being taught the same things) are being given the best brands, the newest toys, and the latest gadgets. So what we are being told and what is actually happening are two entirely different things. 
It is my personal opinion that society today should be criticized for being materlistic. I say this because we are wasteful as a human species. We are always seeking the newest things despite having something that is equally as good. Old items get tossed away and before you know it we are filling landfills, and wasting resources that are used to make the old items that have barely been in our homes for more than a minute before something new is brought in and the old item is discarded. The amount of natural resources we use to make things that are plastic is truly astounding. All of the video games, video game accessories, clothes, shoes, phones, cameras, fashion accessories, vehicles, and other items that rely on oil to be produced are breaking down our world and wasting it away. These are resources, fossil fuels to be exact, that cannot be renewed in our lifetime. We have built an existence that relies on these resources, but we are wasting them on things that are of little importance.
The second reason I think that society today should be criticized for being materialistic is because of unhappiness. We are teaching our children, by example, that happiness comes from purchasing new things. We aren't instilling traditional values in our children any longer. Now our children don't think they can be happy unless they have brand new things instead of utilizing the items they already have. Children don't get to stay children longer and experience the simple joy in the small things in life because they want the latest and the greatest. When I was a child I played outside, rode bikes, made up games with friends, went swimming in the river, read actual books, and just enjoyed a nice summer day outside. Kids today have their faces in video games and on phones. Because of this they are missing out on so many of the naturally occurring things that make it great to be a kid while things are still simple and innocent. And if you take a phone from a child they act out because it's an addiction. Having to own these things and upgrade them comes at a cost.. and it's not always monetary.  If a person has a ton of items they aren't happy.. they are stressed and frustrated because now they have all of these items and they are being overpowered by them. Have you ever seen Hoarders? These people aren't happy. They are suffering in so many ways because the items they have acquired have taken over their lives. At the time they purchased them they thought it brought them happiness, but in the end they realized their error. There is no happiness in owning more things, only in appreciating the items we already have.
People in opposition to my point of view will say that it's ok to buy more things because you can sell the old stuff to other people who will then use it so it's not really wasteful. The problem with that is still the same.. more resources are being used to make the new products and people are still unhappy until they get something new. Yes, an item has been saved from a landfill, but for how long really? It is true it does give it more of a life use, but before you know it the person who originally owned the first item will have cycled through two or three more in the time that original item is still working and being of use. There are far more items than there are people. 
You will also hear that innovation is the key to success. With the brilliant minds of people comes new technology and new items. That is also true. I don't dispute that. However, If we continue to make newer and newer products on a constant basis instead of making items that last a long time and are resilient we are just overfilling our planet with junk. Think about it. Say there are 500,000 people on Earth and each person owns 5 items. You are already at 2.5 million items on this planet. Now suppose that each person replaces each item every year. Now there is 5 million items on this planet plus the new people who have joined the planet in the last year and their five items. The numbers will double exponentially and soon our planet is full of things that are still useful but aren't being used. It's a neverending cycle of junk that just gets shuffled around and ruins the resources we have after using up the resources we didn't have enough of to begin with.
In conclusion, we live in a world that thrives, or fails to, on materialism and I do believe we should criticize one another for our penchant to own things. We should pause and think about the things we can change in our lives to be more happy with what we already have and use those items to their full potential so that they are not wasted on our planet. We are doing ourselves a huge disservice if we don't criticize one another for the amount of things we own because it is overwhelming on a personal level and on a planetary level. 
