It is no shock that everyone wants to be successful. However, there has been some confusion on the most effective form method to create success, thus the argument of competition versus conversation has been widely debated. The issue is complex with arguments on both ends. Those in favor of cooperation state that cooperation is more likely to produce greater and longer lasting accomplishments. Others have argued that competition and the rivalries it creates, drive people to avoid failure and seek their true potential. Although people may argue that cooperation is more likely to provide lasting accomplishments, the reality is that many people thrive off of engagements in competition and achive important victories. 

I believe that competition is healthy among people and will often only make people work harder to achieve their goals. For example. we can see that as soon as children begin schooling, they notice that others are treated differently based on their social or academic accomplishments. While these accomplishments enforce good behavior and often reward the child with a sticker or cookie, it is likely to make other children envious. While envy is not a good thing, this is likely to create competition and drive children, even at a young age, to try and be better at something. A bit of healthy competition is likely to encourage children to do better and they will likely carry this mindset into adulthood. Some may argue that cooperation is a much healthier way to produce significant accomplishments. Although cooperation among children is likely to teach them how to work together, it is not certain to make them work harder towards a goal. With competition comes working toward a goal and with a target ahead, it is far easier to make reach a goal. 

Overall, the argument over competition versus cooperation remains, but it is clear to me that competition fosters an enironment that pushes people towards success. We can even see this among children who work harder to learn to receive rewards for their behavior. By allowing children to engage in this healthy competition, they are likely to carry it into adulthood and work towards their goals. 
