Today's society, while orderly and regulated by many laws to ensure civility, is a highly-competitive society in which people work hard to ensure their individual successes. In the United States, we enjoy a capatalist system, which is based on the buying and selling of goods and services at fair, or current market value, prices. Of course, in order to buy something, one needs money, so one needs to work to acquire that money. In most cases, no one is just going to provide the funds one needs for the basic necessities of food, water, clothing, and shelter, let alone luxury or comfort items. As such, one needs to acquire enough money through working to fill these needs. The job market is competitive, and one needs to really sell themselves, effectively competing against others to secure that job. Once in a job position, that person must continually prove themselves day-in and day-out, and they're competing against others for praise, job security, and financial incentives. Cooperation with co-workers is necessary to get the job done, but ultimately, it's every man for himself when it comes to personal success.

Success is measured by how much money someone earns, saves, and accumulates over one's time, along with how intelligently a person chooses to use that money. For example, one might define a successful person as a college-graduate making $100,000 per year who owns a nice, reliable car, has a mortgage on a home, dresses nicely, keeps themselves kempt, invests money wisely, and can afford certain luxuries. On the other hand, one might see a person as unsuccessful if they haven't graduated college, make minimum wage, rent a room for shelter, has ragged clothing, can't save money, and rely on social services programs like food stamps. Why has one person become successful while the other has not? It's due to competition, which incorporates valuing oneself, striving to excel at any cost, having self-confidence, and wanting to be great. The successful person is one who has ambition and is willing to take what's rightfully theirs by taking the right steps and putting in the work. The non-successful person may be passive, just going through the motions without really setting goals, believing in themselves, and pursuing success. While cooperation often fosters success, it's done out of necessity; if someone could do something on their own and enjoy all the credit, money, and success, they would.

Who are some examples of self-made, independent people who made it big on their own? Well, Mark Cuban, of the "Shark Tank" TV show fame, started Broadcast.com while in college. Broadcast.com was a visionary, way ahead-of-its time website that streamed video in an era of slow Internet connections. Cuban did this on his own accord without cooperating or working with others. Once the business took off, Cuban sold it for millions of dollars and has been an entrepreneur and venture capitalist ever since. Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, has been cutthroat throughout his career, finding ways to sell his MS-DOS operating system and going on to produce the Windows OS, which is installed on most personal computers worldwide. Michael Jordan, who's considered by most to be the best basketball player of all time, was a poor kid from North Carolina who went on to make hundreds of millions of dollars between his NBA career and sponsor endorsements. It seems that those who have the most hunger, drive, and self-determination go on to be the most financially-successful individuals.

Some might argue that some of the most successful people worked in pairs or teams. One example would be Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, the two men who started Apple Computers in the 1980s. Now, Apple enjoys lucrative success in the tech space, selling cutting-edge smartphones, laptops, desktops, tablets, smartwatches, and more. Their company is one of the most successful companies in the tech sector, and it was the result of a two-man collaboration. Laurel and Hardy, the lovable but goofy comedy duo, found success through cooperation, as well. Tim and Eric of "Tim and Eric's Awesome Show: Great Job!" are a modern example of a comedy duo who found success on the strength of cooperation. However, if you're one who desires to be rich, admired, respected, and powerful, you have a better chance of going at it on your own. That way, no one can get in the way of your vision or slow you down or hold you back while you're laser-focused on achieving success one step at a time.

To summarize, their are two schools of thought as to what is a better way to achieve success. One school teaches that success is best-achieved by competition, the law-of-nature and product of our capitalist, every-man-for-himself system. The other teaches that success can be best achieved through cooperation, because two or more heads are better than one, if all parties can work together amicably. However, it's clear that people can achieve personal success best on their own, competing against others to acquire resources that they can then use to enjoy a stable, secure way of life. It's a dog-eat-dog world, and though people act civilly towards each other, everyone's number one interest is their own financial security. The figures we see as the most successful, like Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, and Jeff Bezos, competed against others to make their mark and achieve success.
