Happiness, what exactly is it? Many people define it as a feeling, when winning a competition, getting your paycheck, seeing your kids do their best for you, for example. While the populous may disagree with what makes them have this feeling of happiness, after all this is quite subjective of a topic, there is no denying however that some forms of hapiness is more harmful compared to others and that's where the modern day obession over materialism comes in.

What exactly is materialism? In short it's the love for all things physical, mainly objects of perceived value. It could be anything ranging from a gift you received from your friends on your birthday, to a shiny little seashell you found on the beach one day when taking a nice stroll. The dopamine hit you can potentially get from receiving such objects is honestly overwhelming at times, so its no wonder why so many people would develop this obsession of materialism. But in my opinion, that is exactly why it's so dangerous, people can easily develop an addiction fro it and put a strain on relationships becasue of it.

Now you may ask, what's the big deal? People are allowed to like what they want to like, what's so wrong with liking possessions? In fact many would say it is harmless. But our daily lives can give us a glimpse of just how harmful it can be. Modern society places a great emphasis on capitalism, as such people often slave away at their jobs, neglect their relationships and personal hmental health just for the next paycheck, often because they fancied a new item they saw at the store, online or offline. A good example would be those long queues in front of the apple store. People would literally camp outside of the store just so they can get their iPhones quicker. This goes to show just how far people are willing to go just for one or a few, sometimes ironically selling all their other posessions to get them, similar to other addicts who suffer from much more recognised addictions.

In conclusion, it is perfectly logical to criticize modern society for being materialistic, especially given how it can make everything from dating to mental health so difficult to manage. People should try to put a bit more emphasis on more spiratual ideas, or at least non-tangable goals.
