Your favorite game just got released; people have been excited about the flashy, trending, detailed avertising consistently over the past few years. However, you buy it, only to realize it that it was one of the worst games you've ever played, and easily the worst sixty dollars you've ever spent; everything you've seen, was completely unrealistic, and a scam. How will you go on about future purchases for such franchises? Applicable in any scenario, an individual's high hopes, expectations, and optimism can ruthlessly become corrupted through false advertising, effectively illustrating that over-hyperbolized images and impressions have a negative effect on people. Through any type of product, whether it be video games, grocery produce, different dishes, variety of automobiles, and more: an incorrect portrayal by companies of such product will leave an utterly depressing and disappointing view with false expectations that were not met, for a variety of people. Although opponents may argue that this creates a virtually positive effect if expectations are met... it still becomes the worser perspective, as, even though the idea behind a certain image and impression may be positive, it may be very well misintrepreted, and hence a gamble. 

To get a grasp of things, imagine a specific customer has been stalking Tesla's recent car models. Years after years, he has finally saved up enough money to buy the new Tesla Truck. Negiligent of others' opinion, he has created a highly biased and almost blindsided view of the company. It is of no surprise however. Tesla, in his eyes, is the leader of electronic cars, is a co-company of Space X, and is led by the most loved man on Earth, Elon Musk. Advertisements are joyful, and create bounds and heaps of perfect pricing, perfect value, and amazing quality materials that are built within the car, which, if one may mention, comes with a built-in self-driving functionality, defense system, pet modes, GPS, etc. And finally, the customer has made his pre-order purchase. Minutes later, on live telivision, with extremely high hopes, happiness, excitement, and an overwhelming urge of relief, the loyal customer is only greeted by Elon Musk himself demonstrating a failed functionality of the model, and by simply tapping the glass, the window on the car shatters. The customer is now, completely, and utterly, disappointed. Years after years, his hopes and dreams and hard-worked money has been completely stolen from him. A simple image and impression, creates a prejudiced bias within an individual, satisfying his need of dopamine and fulfilled anticipation before the actual product has been released. And yet, when a company, who does not care about the actual product, but rather the appeal of it, fails to meet this expectation, who suffers? The client. The poor individual who used his whole savings to buy a product that was falsely advertised by fake impressions and images. Fear, uncertainty, anxiety, depression, and most importantly defeat, all play a role in causing the individual to never again make a purchase for a product he may love. His image of products he thinks he will love is forever, permanently, and utterly, hindered.

Although opponents may argue that a certain image and impression can indeed be met, one must understand that the gamble is simply not worth it. Yes, although an individual may feel satisfaction, joy and simulatenously become a loyal client of a certain brand, one must note that the customer's expectations will only continue to rise. And as soon as a certain image and impression is not met, the customer will feel exactly what our previous customer felt: dismay. One should also note that the individual's image will forever be tainted of a certain product. Although a completely new, flashy, popular product may soon be advertised by vibrant and saturated images, the customer will now no longer feel excitement, but rather feel neutral, as to think of the worst, so that he can no longer be disappointed.

The problem with society today is simple: Images and impressions have too much of a negative effect on people, creating bonds between mistrust and disloyalty, simply a fool's paradise. Whether it be an immaterialistic sale, like gaining the popularity of a polticial individual, or whether it simply be a restaurant's dish, people will always be driven by images and impressions of the product, rather than the product itself. However, the biggest issue today, is that there is simply no solution. Companies will continue to be greedy, like Cyberpunk with their underdelivered franchise, or Apple, with recent backlash on their newest products. And yet, the naive individuals who buy into such images falsely portrayed, remain the victims; because after a company lost a client, they can always sell a false impression, and gain one back. An endless cycle. A loop, never to be sealed.
