   Yes image and impressions have too much of an effect on people.
An image whether its a display, a picture or a persons image as become more important than the talent or content especially now in the digital age.Beauty is very appealing and people overall love beautiful things so a beautiful display, image, person brings about a greater appeal versus a more duller lackluster image.
 
Firstly the image is what captures the customer or audience, If you are walking pass a store a beautiful display will make you stop and potentially enter the store to see what is being sold. 
 If you are watching a tv show, movie alot of actors are cast solely based on their looks. Some music/ entertainment industries example kpop groups have designated persons known as visuals , their role is essentially to use their beauty to capture the eye of young girls who can potentially become fans. 
Its not uncommon for someone to become famous solely because they are beautiful, thin have a bubbling persoanlity.
 The problem arise when this is marketed as normal, alot of young impressionable boys and girls look at these people and strive to be like them. These individuals are use to market food, exercise and person tend to think if they do as they do they will look like them. 
Many persons  in order to be seen  would go the extra mile to create an image of themself they are not, this for example have caused a rise in plastic surgeries as persons try to get a perfect face,perfect body so that they can show a more appealing image. Alot some of these individuals have also developed health issues whether from poor health habits such as eating too little to remain thin or from risky/bad surgeries or the number of surgeries they have done over the year
  Its as grown more and more with the rise of social media, the more pretty the pictures the more likes and comments and followers a person can get. Sadly we all are beautiful but we live in a judgemental world as such how we look is what most of us will be judged on rather than what we are capable of doing.
