     Have you ever been feeling down, depressed, distraught, and then felt the instant relief of buying something new and pretty that you really didn't need? I know I have engaged in retail therapy on more than one occasion. I have to admit, it feels nice in the moment to have a new pair of shoes, or new perfume, or some other frivilous thing that I could honestly have done without. I know I'm not alone, there's a reason "retail therapy" is a tongue-in-cheek phrase. Why does shopping and getting new things make us happy? And is it the responsible thing to do?

     The truth is many of us in the developed world buy a lot more things than whe actually need, and our planet is suffering as a result. The environmental impact of consumerism can be seen from production, distribution, all the way through disposal. Sometimes even the use of material possessions can have a deterimental effect on the environment. Whenever a new product is created, the resources to make this product need to first be aquired. Unfortunately most consumer goods are not made 100% out of recycled materials, which means material needs to be mined, harvested, or otherwise procured from the environment. This devastates the habitats of many animals in our already shrinking natural world. Chemicals used in farming or mining can also harm the land. Once the materials needed to produce the goods are assembled, the manufacturing process is also often detrimental to the environment. Any biproducts of manufacturing have to go somewhere. Factories release chemicals into the air and water, and production waste piles up in landfills. Then the goods need to be distributed, and the distribution inevitably releases tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere when goods are moved via ships, trucks, planes, and delivery vans. The packaging needed to distrubute material goods is also harmful for the environment because most will end up in landfills or littering our land and ocean. Once the products are finally in the hands of consumers, there can be environmental problems with the product use as well. For example, certain fabrics release microplastics into the water systems when they are washed. Microplastics have been found literally everywhere on earth, even though the invention of plastic is relatively new. Once the consumer has gotten enough use out of the product, they will either dispose of it, donate it, or try and sell it. But nothing is usable forever, and the end is usually another thing in our rapidly filling landfills.

     But what if the consumer has buyer's remorse? Many ecommerce companies have a very lenient return policy. If a customer purchases something online and then is unsatisfied with the product he or she receives, then it is easily returned for a full refund or replacement product. Sometimes the seller will simply allow the customer to keep the unwanted item just to avoid the hassle. Other times the seller will pay for the customer to mail the item back. This easy return policy creates more waste  through more packaging or people throwing out purchases they were unsatisfied with. If the product is sent back to the seller, then it adds to the carbon emissions that all the back and forth shipping produces. And once the item is back at the retailer, it does not automatically return to store shelves or stockrooms the way customers assume, many items are simply disposed of because the hassle of restocking is too great. This creates even more waste.

     The production of cheap items also has a negative effect on other humans. Things we can easily purchase to get a quick mood boost were likely made by other people who are working long hours in poor, often dangerous conditions. A vast number of the products we consume were made in China, which has demonstrably had many human rights violations, including child labor, and sweatshop factories where the long hours of dangerous work is practically slavery. Then the factories produce waste and release toxins that negatively affect the health and wellbeing of the people working and living in the area. People in western countries can take advantage of the cheap labor that other countries provide, at the expense of the individuals who are working in conditions that would be illegal in their own country. Unfortuantely it is difficult for the average consumer to empathize with something that he or she is not personally witnessing, so they are complicit in the cycle.

     Although buying something new can make you feel happy in the short term, it is wise to think through the repercussions of any of our actions. Next time you find yourself tempted to engage in "retail therapy", ask yourself if the things you are buying are really necessary. Weigh the pros and cons. Think outside of your own bubble. We are all interconnected, and we all only have one Earth.
