It is important to note that what we see on Instagram does not represent reality. While people are often aware of the saying "Instagram vs reality", it can often be hard to dissociate the two in how we view others. There are two layers to this. The first is the filtering aspect where photots can be retouched or edited, often removing flaws. The second is that a photo on Instragram is a single snapshot of a curated moment. Even someone who posts multiple times a day, a few one-second photos represent minute fragments of a day, let alone a life. 
There have been two recent cases that have brought this issue to the forefront. The first was the muder of Gaby Petito by her boyfriend Brian Laundrie. If you scrolled through her Instragram you would have seen what looked like a happy couple traveling the country together. Yet, this is far from reality. Sure, there were likely happy moments on the journey, but the couple was obviously struggling behind the scenes. Just last week, a Stanford soccer player committed suicide in her dorm room. Even to her parents, she did not appear to show any signs of depression. How could a pretty blonde girl who was a star athlete at one of the world's best universities possibly be unhappy? Yet, choosing to take one's own life is not a split-second decision over a single instance. 
Above are only two examples of where the images projected to the outside world through Instagram or other platforms appeared far from reality. Yet no matter how many of these stories come to light, why do they continue to occur. If you aksed more people how close Instagram was to reality, many would probably easily make the distinction. So then the question arises, why do events like this persist? While it may be very easy to know that Instagram or social media are not completely reality, the harder distinction is to know what is true and what is fake. There are many levels to this. There is simply taking a photo from an angle that you percieve makes you look better, retouching photos to get rid of blemishes or wrinkles, as well as portraying happiness when you are not happy because that is just what people do and social media is not a place for sorrow. Combined, these factors have created a very dangerous culture, especially amongst young people and particularly young women.
No matter how much we are aware that what we see on social media is not reality, there is also the psychological toll that constantly seeing other people portray happiness when we ourselves are not happy can have on us. Humans often feel pressure to fit in and feeling isolated or different when we are already unhappy can be quite toxic and dangerous. With the continued role of social media in our daily lives, it is more important than ever to realize and try to combat the harm that it can cause.
With social media, it has become increasingly clear that images of others as well as the images we put out there of ourselves have a very strong effect on people. No matter how much we know they may not be true, it is hard to fully know the truth. Additionally, there is a psychological toll of the constant beratement of happiness slapped across our screens all day long. Images and impressions have too strong an effect on people and are often not completely truthful. Yet, who doesn't want to fit in? 
