A sense of competition seems hardwired in some people. Competitive people often bring that sensibility to everything they do: at school, work, sports, games--they remain competitive. But, speaking as a person who does NOT possess a very competitive sensibility, I can say in all honesty, that working and playing with competitive people can be EXHAUSTING! Not everything needs to be a battle!

Most people probably fall into 2 loose camps: people who are very competitive and people who like to win but are not hardwired to do so--like me! Being ultra competitive may work well for individual results. A competitive person can certainly motivate another competitive person. But what about everyone else? What about the folks who enjoy competition but don't have that drive? Chances are, as I have seen throughout life, the less competitive take a back seat. 

And another reason why working with the ultra competitive can be problematic is how they react to losing. I have seen adults actually pouting over a loss! It's counterproductive to have to deal with the emotions of someone who hates to lose. And it can be very hard on the people they work with.

My biggest issue is that when working with others, if there is a very competitive person or people, their competitiveness alienates the less competitive. They can steal the focus, they can put themselves in the spotlight. Some may find that motivating, but there's a greater chance that people find it isolating. You can't make yourself more competitive, at least in my experience. But I do believe an individual can tame their competitiveness. And by doing so, the focus becomes the goal of the group, not the individual. The cooperative group can pool their efforts and maintain harmony much better. And what happens, if a group is cooperating? They can be a better group and achieve more success. They can be competitive together! 

Most people probably have some level of competition in them. The way to succeed is to work together, so that everyone has the same goals and desires, and everyone is working toward them together.
