Happiness is a very subjective standard and meaning that differs between individuals. One can say there are two types of happiness: singular vs. collective. Singular is when only the person themself is the focus/target of happiness. Collective is when happiness is gained from a group or community, outside of a single person. These two categories of happiness are similar to the division of Eastern and Western values, where Eastern cultures put more emphasis and value into a collective identity while Western cultures are individual, self-focused (i.e. "we" vs "I"). But the issue in this binary categorization of happiness and value is not realistic. Happiness can be a blend of both personal pursuement and a collective concern for others. 

Humans are selfish inherently for survival. We need certain needs to live and we want certain desires to enjoy a fulfilling life. But we are also capable of great charity and mercy for many others. This can be seen in our day-to-day lives, where we focus on our own responsibilities (e.g. work, school, etc.) but are also concerned and can go out of our way for others (e.g. someone struggling to carry, holding the door open, giving money to the homeless, etc.). Focusing on the happiness of others can come in many forms, and rarely do we regret helping others in their own pursuement of happiness. We both want the best for ourselves but also for our friends, families, and strangers.

Overall, there is no stark separation if people are happier if they focus only on themselves versus others. People are happier if they focus both on their own personal goals and on the well-being of others. This can be seen anywhere, especially online through social media where someone can celebrate their own success and many other strangers join them to congratulates them. Parents are the epitomy of being happy for both themselves and their children. Happiness is not a "them" versus "me" but rather an "us/we" processes.

Let's talk about what happens if we fall into the mindset that happiness is either only "me" or only for "others." Humans are social creatures in that we need to socialize and connect with others to live a fulfilling life as proven by multiple studies, observations, and experiements. We already know what happens when someone is only concerned with their own goals and not others. They become drastically selfish, isolated, and disconnected with others. The trope "money doesn't buy happiness" comes into play, because the value of life isn't one's personal achievements, but the connections and experience they share with others. 

Whereas, if someone becomes only concerned with the happiness of others, their life can become in danger. Victims of abusive relationships have a depressing statistic of staying with their abuser. This is mainly because of their mindset that they are unable to focus on their true personal goals (being safe, happy, etc). and focus on their abuser's mentality. This is understandable, that the victim is overcomed with fear in not triggering the abuser more. But we all know that it isn't right. Thus, why there are multiple resources and communities trying to assist such victims and help them relearn how to become more focused on their personal goal and be more aware the others will be happier if they left the abuser. 

Happiness is not a zero sum game, where only one person can "win" in being happy. One can be happy for both themselves and for others. Happiness can be shared and gained through all types of forms and aspects, big or small. Therefore, I argue that people are not more likely to be happy if they think they have to choose between focusing on themselves versus others. People are more likely to be happy if they understand that happiness is not exclusive to a certain requirement or division, that it can be flexible and gained from both individual and collective focus. One can be happy by achieving a personal goal and one can be happy by helping others achieve their own goal.

Reality is not a stark black and white understanding. We are more complex and fluid in both our physical and mental processes. If we fall into the narrow mindset that something must be "A" versus "B" and that an option "C" doesn't exist, or that maybe something can't have both "A" and "B" qualities, then we also limit our abilities to live and understand a fulfilling life with all our potentials and opportunities.
