The key to deciding on what makes people happy has more to do with what our social norms are and what qualities we (as a culture) decide are inherently "good" or "bad".  Selfishness is defined as thinking only of oneself and in United States culture, it is generally considered a bad thing.  Being a social norm, this causes certain feelings behind those behaviors and being happy is not one of those feelings. 

When looking at what makes someone happy, behaving in a negative (selfish) way is not going to lead to ultimate happiness. The only way to happiness is to look outside ones own self and focus on the betterment of the community and other people.  It helps us, as humans, look at the larger picture and get outside of our own heads. It gives us worth and helps us to feel as if we belong and matter. Experiencing the love of a family, this could be a biological family or a chosen family through close friendship, leads to happiness. Happiness comes from experiences, love, and socializing; not instant gratification and inward reflection. 

I can remember watching the movie, Into the Wild when I was younger.  A young man decides he wants to conquor Alaska and survive in the wild alone.  He works and struggles and does OK for a while.  He has all of these experiences good, bad, and sad. Spoiler alert.... he dies at the end.  But while he is dying he is explaining that all of those things don't matter because no-one was there to share the experiences with them.  It is basically like they never happened.  He wasn't happy because he never shared the love. 

United States culture is quickly attempting to change into a selfishness based culture so you might ask, "is that making people more happy?"  The answer is no.  Depression and other mental illness is at an all time high.  Addiction to social media apps is rampant. And what are they doing on the apps? Getting social validation for things they say or do. Every "like" pumps the ego. But ultimatly, that comes from sharing with others, not having the experience for themselves. 

Focus on others and your community around you.  Live real life. Have experiences with other people.  Experience love. Recognize selfish behaviors and rebell against them. Don't believe the media and hype that focuses around doing things only for you. Focus on family (biological or chosen family). These are the ways to truly feel happiness.  


