Walk down the street, turn on the tv, or mindlessly browse social media and you're sure to be bombarded with a nonstop onslaught showcasing of expensive luxury goods and the message that happiness and success is in direct correlation to wealth and conusmerism. In today's world of influencers and omnipresent social media, it's almost impossible to avoid the idea that materialism is equal to satisfaction. But is being materialistic always a bad thing? Is there any good to come from this? Materialism, defined as aquiring possessions and spending money, can, in fact, have a positive outcome. By choosing where and how we spend our money, materialism can be used as an avenue for demanding change for the greater good. 

Mass produced consumer items are cheap and easy to acquire, resulting in overflowing landfills and depleted natural resources. But "materialism" and the demand for status often requires that manufacturers adhere to certain standards in their productioin practices. For example, there is little status in a $10 poorly made shirt from H&M. However, a $300 shirt from a luxury brand does hold status for the owner. The $300 shirt will, most likely, NOT be fast fashion; it will be made by workers being paid a fair wage, and will be more enviornmentally friendly. It will last longer and hold its value, freeing up space it's poorly made fast fashion counterpart will take in a landfill. Here, we see that materialism and the draw of a luxury item promotes good practices by manufacturers. 

Some may argue that expensive items are unnecessary and that the desire to purchase them may lead to self-esteem issues in those that can't afford them. It is true that not everyone can afford "luxury" items, but, as the market becomes more competitve and ethical practices become more common place, the price will go down. In the mean time, people do have options and that is why these are "luxuries". It is also important for parents to teach their children the importance of values beyond conspicuous consumption. It is not the consumer goods industry's job to teach other people's children how to navigate through life. 

Everyone chooses what is important to them and how to live their lives. We live in a society where it is necessary to buy consumer goods - clothing, household goods, furniture etc. We have a choice in what we buy and from whom we buy it. It is our reposnibility to make informed decisions.  Materialism may be inevitable, but the choices we make aren't. By choosing to buy ethically produced products, our materialism can change the world for the better.  Surely, it is better to buy from a high end brand rather than a fast fashion alternative who uses child labor and pollutes the environment? To say materialism is wholely detrimental to society is to have a narrow understanding of how the world works and how our buying power can impact it. 



