     Our society as a whole has become more and more materialistic, and this is a behavior which invites some serious criticism. I beleive strongly that our society should be criticised for how materialistic it has become. We are pushing the idea that money and the things it can buy are more important that anything else in life. I will offer some examples of our societys behavior below.
   One example of how materialistic our society has become is in our dependancy on smart phones. Everyone, even children, seem to have one; and it has to be the latest and greatest device. People are paying hunderds, even over a thousand dollars, just for a device that takes them away from real life. When I was growing up, kids played outside, and used their imaginations. Now they stay inside with this tiny device in their hands. They do not even know how to hold a normal conversation with a real human being. What makes it worse is that they get upset if the device isnt flashy enough. They use this as a status symbol. I have heard stories of teens that will yell at their parents if they are bought an older vesion of an iphone as opposed to the newest model. It doesn't matter that they essentially work the same; they just worry about how their friends will judge them. In reality, they should be grateful for what they are given. Instead they are greedy and ungrateful.
   Another example is in the clothes that we all wear. People place too much emphasis on a certain label in their clothes as opposed to having items that are functional and affordable. If someone cannot afford brand name clothes they are perceived as being a lesser human being than their peers. When in reality we are all clothed and that is what is most important. In most cases, these branded items tend to be lower quality and less functional than their cheaper off brand counterparts. We focus so much on how flashy the clothes are instead of how they will be used in our every day lives.
   Another example of how materialistic our society has beome is in the need to live in a big, expensive house, or in a flashy neighboorhood. People seem to think the bigger, the better; with little care of the upkeep involved in such a monstrosity. Instead of focusing on having a roof over their heads, they worry about what the home they purchase says about them, It's got to be big, and its got to be expensive, or others may look down on them. An example of an address mattering more would be in New York city. People pay thousands of dollars to live in a tiny room just because it is in a certain address. They do not take anything else in to consideration. Even if the place is smaller than a closet and rat infested, they dont care. They are judged based on where the address is, not the quality of said address.
   In conclusion, I have noticed that the people around me tend to collect stuff; nothing really important, just stuff. They surround themselves with things and waste their money on it. Not realizing that the things they are buying are not worth the time they spend to make the money to buy these things. I believe that our society as a whole waste too much time and energy on collecting material things instead of focusing on the things that really matter in life. We should be ashamed of ourselves and in the values we are teaching our children.
