What is the source of personal happiness? Different perspectives exist pertaining to how one should behave to achieve happiness. Some individuals believe that happiness is achieved via the pursuit of achieving one's own personal goals. Other individuals believe that happiness is achieved not by pursuing one's own personal goals, but rather, by working to improve other people's well-being and improving the life conditions of others. In my opinion, considering the pursuit of one's own personal goals and working to improve other's well-being need not be thought of as distinct. Rather, ultimate happiness is best obtained when one considers achieving one's own personal goals and improving the well-being of others as the same. 

When focusing on achieving one's personal goals at the exclusion of improving the well-being of others, we lose opportunities to make important social connections that are important for improving our own well-being. Humans are social animals, and being social promotes happiness. Working selfishely to meet our own goals without considering how such behaviors impact and potentially lifts up others is anti-social behavior, and can only lead to unhappiness. Further, if one only improves the quality of their life without working to improve the life quality of others can lead to inequality where many others are living lower quality lives. Without working to improve the life quality of others, we may be contributing to increases in poverty and crime, which can only lead to a lower quality of lives for ourselves.

On the flip-side, if we only focus on improving the lives of others at the expense of achieving our own life goals, we neglect ourselves. Neglecting ourselves as a sacrifice to help others is not a recipe for achieving happiness. Having a sense of purpose and feeling like you are working towards meeting that purpose is an important factor contributing to happiness. If the work you do to improve the happiness of others is not personally fulfilling and does not seem to help you fulfill your life's purpose, one will not feel a sense of happiness even though they are working towards making others happy. Working to improve the life-quality of others in a non-fulfilling way can only lead to feelings of burn-out and possibly senses of resentment towards those that are being helped at the expense of one's own personal happiness. 

Thus, the only way to achieve ultimate happiness is to ensure that the improvement of our own personal lives and the improvement of others are the same goal. A way to achieve this is by pursuing careers where these two goals are aligned. Such professions include teaching, emergency services, social work, clergymen, mental health counseling, etc. Here, one can achieve one's own professional goals while simultaneously helping others and improving the life quality of members of our community. Another way to achieve this is to be a family-focused individual. When one has a strong family life, their own personal happiness and emotional security is enhanced. One can contribute to the development of a strong family by ensuring we are always working to improving the well-being of our family members (and friends, who are unofficial family members). We can also marry these two goals to achieve ultimate happiness by volunteering. By volunteering, we make more social connections (which enhance one's own well-being since we are social creatures) and in doing so, we work to help our community through work in things like food drives, clothing drives, raising funds for various causes, etc. 

Sometimes, what may seem like a selfish pursuit of one's own personal goals at the expense of others could have long-term effects on contributing to the happiness of others. For instance, when CEOs of companies work to make profits and large salaries to achieve the financial goals of their company, it may seem that they are only working to fulfill their own personal goals without consideration of other people's happiness who are not connected to the company. But, individuals and corporations who make large profits could potentially use their financial resources at a later date to improve others though chariable donations. I believe corporations and their CEOs would be the most happy if they can use the resources they acquire through their businesses to ultimately improve the life quality of the communities in which their companies exist. It is only when society is strong and happy that many companies can operate in a way that will be profitable and efficient. Social disorder and unhappiness can hurt profits. 

In conclusion, I believe the debate that argues whether personal happiness is achieved by pursuing one's own personal goals vs. helping to make others happy is a potentially false distinction in relation to understanding what makes people the most happy. It is critical that the pursuit of one's goals is aligned with making others happy as well. We cannot be happy in a social world if we are only satisfied in our own isolated bubble. We need to make sure happiness is spread throughout our community so that the conditions exist that allow happiness to seep into our own personal life bubbles. 



