      Often, privilege gives space for reflection and opinion. For those of us in the modern era, a substantial amount of privilege exists and informs our time and thoughts. Materialism and the concerns about its impact on modern society are often viewed and evaluated through this privileged lens. Modern society should not be criticized for materialism because it is a modern reality, and instead of criticizing it or philosophising it, we should be making efforts to ensure it is fair and equitable. Education, resource awareness, and responsible consumption should be the modern elements of materialism evaluation and not criticism that it exists. 
     Simply reducing the arguments about materialism to it being "bad" eliminates the need for intent, responsible evaluation of what materialism is and what it means for the societies it primarily impacts. For example, there are now materialistic needs that are important for basic functions in many societies. Internet accessibility is necessary and fair in education. Easily prepared foods are necessary for many families. Housing and leisure are often required for overall societal function. These things are all materialistic and unecessary to survival but are actually required for overall development and productivity in modern society. Accepting materialism as necessary for the current society is responsible evaluation. 
     Part of evaluting materialism instead of critiquing it is becoming aware of resource scarcity. Materialism is negative when resources are hoarded by those with more financial privilege. When materialistic resource wealth is distributed more evenly, it ensures that there is less restrictions on availability and less inequity between those with more of something and those with less of it. For example, internent companies should be limited in how much they can charge for access to their services. While there should be realistic expectations of overhead, maintenance, customer service, skilled labor costs, there should also be non-selfish requirements for distribution that are not about making more and more and more money. When someone has reached a certain level of resource consumption or access, they should not be allowed to continue to gain MORE. So, materialism as a whole is not inherently bad for resources, but it is unacceptable for an individual or single corporation to become the primary holder of a resource. These are differences in express capitalism versus other economic models, but these are practical elements of evaluating materialism and not focused on materialism being a reality of modern society or not. 
     Responsible consumption should, in fact, be the standard when it comes to materialistic evaluation and criticism. Wanting something is not negative. Wanting so much of something that others cannot obtain it or that it runs out is negative. In a materialistic society, accepting things that we want to have easy access to like electricity, water, internet, comforts, means also accepting the realities of how those things are obtained, what they cost, what they impact and working together to find better ways to get these things over time that are responsible. Modern society is going to consume resources. Humankind has evolved to a place where materials are going to be used en masse and long term. This is no longer an element of debate, and in so criticism of materialism cannot just be philosophical. It must be practical, but in becoming a practical critique, the question of whether or not it SHOULD be criticized becomes irrelevant. Materialis instead should be evaluated and harnassed for positive human growth. 
    Ultimately materialism is a reality. This stage of humankind allows us access to technology and worldwide connectivity in a way that is new. We have automated and personalized so much access to basic needs that it leaves more room for growth in other areas like creativity, consumption, free time. Human minds thrive off productivity, but productivity looks different now than it did during more agricultural or survival periods of human history. Humanity has always been prone to create art, to think hard, and to learn more. Materialism is a natural development of basic needs being met and overall productivity still being necessary.  So, acknowledging it as a reality gives us space to acknowledge how we can be materialistic in a way that is beneficial and not harmful to the world as a whole. 
    Materialism is not something that should just be dismissed and criticized as negative. It should be understood to be a modern reality, and within that framework, we should be working together to provide more education, resource awareness, and responsible ways of consuming. As a society, we will continue to be aware of our materialistic desires and growth. Acknowledging this and working together to make it something smart and responsible and kind for the current and future generations is crucial.
