Do people become successful by competing or cooperating? Which one is the way to go? Many will say that competition is what will make you work harder since people tend to compare themselves to others on how they are doing in life. Should we compete to better ourselves or be consistent with others to get ahead? The answer without a doubt in my mind is to cooperate. 

Cooperation will have a longer and lasting impact on you and others in your circle. I see people who compete and fail, which it is okay to fail. But I also witness people fail and give up because they do not think they are good enough to compete in the "real world". When you cooperate not only will you succeed in business but also personally. Mental and physical health can take a toll on you when you are constantly competing to be the best. Think about it, when we compete does it really bring out the best in us or the beast in us? I truly believe that people become someone they think they should be. An example of the benefits of being cooperative  is in the workforce. If people work together as a team the outcome of productivity is much higher. Clients and or customers are happier which in turn will increase salaries of employees. Another example, is in a classroom at school. When the teacher allows students to work together they can bounce ideas off of each other. Some may learn better from one of their peers. If they compete, students will be too distracted of actually learning and start to feel down on themselves. This can cause anxiety and other mental health issues. When you work together it will make you feel like you are a part of something. This especially helps children who sometimes feel like they are alone or have no friends. 

In summary, is it better to compete or to cooperate? Cooperation is valuable at all ages. It promotes goodwill towards everyone. Cooperation leads to success in every aspect of your life. It helps with creativity, business, kindness, mental health and an overall better outlook. Anytime you help another person freely you also feel better. It doesn't cost anything to cooperate. Don't we see when someone does something nice for someone else that act is most likely paid forward. Doesn't this make you successful if you can pass that on to others? Success doesn't have to be monetary or a promotion. Success is something you find a passion for, a sense of giving back and making a difference. That is the meaning of cooperating!
