
     I feel that people are likely to be happy if they choose a mixed bag of the two choices. Also, I feel that the outcome depends on what kind of person the person in question is to begin with, i.e., how are they wired? Are they narcissistic? Ego-maniacal? Or are they altruistic with innate humanitarian urges, like, say, Mother Theresa? What was this person in question like as a 10 year old child? Did they torture animals? Or, did they help others and be kind? Well, either way, whatever the case may be; whatever they were like as kids, we all want to be happy. Whatever, "happy," might be for one individual isn't necessarily the, "happy," of someone else. 
    Okay, I will say this in good faith that the person in question is the best possible version of a human being and that they derive happiness from doing good things for others. They get a warm feeling in their heart from serving soup to the less fortunate. Or, they donate very expensive items to Goodwill when they could have sold them on Facebook Marketplace Danny's Junk Yard, like, just to be kind. No matter how many times they get their faces spat in by the few ingrates or bad apples their bunch never gets ruined. 
     Like Mother Theresa.
     Anywho, people are more happy if they focus on the happiness of others because they can get lost in their work. More people are happier when they can get lost in work, oddly enough. I know some lazy people may disagree, but, those who have done it before know what I'm talking about. Also, focusing on the happiness of others just like, makes a person feel a natural high. It is totally crazy! Yet true. Try it. Another reason why is is better to focus on making others happy is because when you give the universe, or karma, gives back to you. It is difficult to make that leap of faith if you are not genuinely generous. You must really want to give the things, no matter how valuable, away. You will feel a natural high and then, karma will give back to you tenfold. Right? Isn't that what they say? I want so badly to think this and I think I lived it before, if I'm not mistaken. It's so difficult to say because I just recently recovered from being a heroin addict. Like, so, I've only been thinking like not screwed up since 11/12/2020. I almost feel like a new baby sometimes in like some little things. I think I'm alone in this. I digress! I thank God and karma or however it works that I got off opiates and heroin. O my bad, I was supposed to have digressed. I kid. 
     Simultaneously, a person must take care of oneself. Mother Theresa had to take showers and wash her clothes and she had to have like, "me time," some time. Did she not? I mean, I wonder what she was really like. I suppose I will look it up. Or I won't. I am not certain. Anyways. 
     Personal goals being acheived make someone very blissful. I know because I have done so in the past. Some I did on accident. I thank God for every victory, big or small. I'm 38 years young. I have been fat before. I am currently like a MILF or some such nonsense. I don't know. I just do what makes me happy because that is really all there is, is it not? Happiness attained from moment to moment is like all there is, really. I think a mixture of the two is ideal for to be happy, however, you all wish for me to choose one answer, I gather. I choose that it is likely for a person to be the most happy if they focus on the happiness of others. That's my story and I'm sticking to it. Good night! God bless. 
