There are over 8 billion people on this planet, who all experience emotions differently. One of the most sought after human emotions, hapiness, is one such emotion. Happiness is a subjective emotion that can be difficult to quantify. Different levels of happiness can be seen in focusing on different actions. So the question lies, does one become happier if they focus on themself or focus on others? I would argue that people are more likely to be happier when focusing on their own personal goals because taking time to achieve your own goals is a form of self-care that can improve mental health and well being.

Focusing on your own goals helps mental health and well being because it can give you a sense of accomplishment and purpose. If someone sets a goal of scoring a certain grade on an exam and successfully reaches that score through dedicated studying, it will provide a big boost to their happiness through the accomplishment they have achieved. This sense of accomplishment is a sure-fire way to increase hapiness. A simlar effect can be see when a person gets a job promotion they have been hoping for.Consistently achieving personal goals can lead to a person having higher self-motivation, increased self-esteem, and confidence. Those three factors directly contribute to happiness as they are a result of feeling like you have purpose and something to strive for.

Some may argue that a greater happiness boost comes from focusing on others. This is not entirely untrue, as helping out others can make someone feel like they are needed, which is sure to increase a person's mood as people enjoy feeling like they have done a good deed for someone else. However, focusing too much on other people's goals can lead to feelings of burnout, which has a negative impact on happiness. An example of this can be shown in long term caretakers. Long term caretakers are focusing on the happiness of others as they person they are taking care of depends on them for basic tasks throughout the day and night. This can provide a boost to the happiness of the caretaker as they are directly helping someone else; however, consistently having to help someone else can lead to feelings of exhaustion and take away time from focusing on one's self. Therefore, taking the time to focus on your own goals is more likely to contribute to a person's happiness.

Happiness is a complex emotion that is difficult to measure and is experienced in a multitude of different ways. People are more likely to experience a greater level of happiness if they dedicate more time to achieving their own personal goals. This leads to people viewing themselves in a better light which has a direct correlation to happiness. People can gain happiness when focusing on others, but it has a greater potential to lead to a detrimental effect. This is not to say that people should only focus on themself and never help others. In fact, perhaps the best way to become the happiest a person can be, is to split some time between self-care and caring for others. There is not a one-size fits all solution to happiness, but people need to be sure they are taking adequate time for their own self-care and mindfullness.
