Happiness can be a result of a variety of factors. Happiness can come from loved ones, your job, the activities you engage in, etc. Although, there is a difference between being happy because of something thats happening or because of something you are doing and being happy with yourself. To figure out what makes people happy, then people need to ask themselves if they are seeking happiness from external factors in their life, such as a relationship, a car, wealth, etc, or if their happiness is coming from themselves because they are genuinely happy with themselves and their life.

I believe that happiness is going to come from your own personal goals rather than the happiness of others. I say this because before you can focus on other peoples well-being, you need to make sure that your well-being and state of mind is in a good place too before you can get to other people. Being happy with yourself is the most important thing and you shouldn't be chasing vices or temporary satisfaction from things that wont last. Money doesn't last, relationships don't last, jobs dont last. Many things in life are temporary and that is something we have to come to an agreement to. Within our finite time in this world, people need to make the best of their time and focus on their own happiness so that before their time comes, they can say they lived a happy life and were contempt with themselves. There isn't going to be another life so we shouldn't waste it worrying about things that that wont last. If you focus on your goals in your life then I believe that will truly make you happy.

Overall, life is a journey and an experience. In order for us to be happy we need to chase our goals and chase our dreams, accomplish the things we wanna do. Those are the things that will make us happy and contempt. To say that you truly lived and accomplished your goals is true happiness and a good life. It should not be taken for granted the time we have here on this earth. Ultimately my message to anyone out there is accomplish the goals you wish to complete. Go out there and be somebody, don't waste your life away and do what truly makes you happy.
