I am sure that you've seen advertisements before. They are all around un in the US. We are exposed to them essentially from the moment we open our eyes for the first time. But, can these attempts to pursuede us actually be trusted? In the paragraphs that follow, I will argue that no, advertisements cannot be trusted and perhaps should be subject to greater regulation.

One of the clearest pieces of evidence from my experience that indicate deception on the part of advertisers is the vast difference between what you see in fast food commercials and what you actually receive when you order something. Take a hamburger for instance. You see a fluffy and fresh bun that glistens in the light. You have fresh, crisp lettuce and tomato covered with tiny water droplets. There is lucious sauce oozing over the side. The burger patty looks thick and perfectly grilled. It looks like a work of art. Interestingly enough, that is essentially what this is. It is professionally shot, professionally lit and professionally arranged. Often, what you are seeing in the advertisement is not even food, it is other things dressed up to appear like food. I recall seeing a milk commercial where white paint was used to portray the milk product. This is all a common practice for food presentation.

The most shocking part is when you actually receive a burger from the restaurant. What do you get? A flat, lifeless looking burger. wilty lettuce and tomato that was clearly grown in a hot house. A grey, mass produced burger patty. It depressing at best and outrageous at worst. How could one not feel lied to when the open this disgrace after being sold a work of art in the commercial? I know that is how I used to feel.

The practice must work from a profit standpoint because so many restaurants do it. I bet most people would agree that they have seen and experienced this practice. People see these images and want what is portrayed. The problem is that they don't get what is portrayed. This should frustrate people more than it does in my opinion.

We see an important parallel in Hollywood and the fashion industry where photographs of famous stars and models are touched up and photoshopped to the point that the do not resemble the actual person. These practices create unnatural and unrealistic cultural expectations that harm society. Body dismorphia, depression and eating disorders are all likely related to these deceptive tactics. 

But is there any way to stop this deception? I am not sure is people are as outraged as me or if there is any motivation among the fast-food-eating public to do something about this. It feels like there aren't that many given how popular fast food restaurants are. However, it would be simply to create legislation that bans this type of false advertising. Fast food corporations ought to either portray what they are selling more accurately, or serve food that more accurately resembles what they are advertising. In what other industry is such blatent false advertising so accepted? Anti-photoshop regulations could also be implemented in the entertainment industry. I think it would be in the best interest of society to do so.

Now, some may point to freedom of speech and freedom of press to prodect the fast food companies with this issue. However, it frustrates me that we put so much emphasis on protecting their freedom to communicate and profit through deceptive practices, rather than protecting the consumer from being ripped off and negatively influenced. If we create rules such that all fast food companies must follow, none will be treated unfairly. All will be subject to the same rules. I think the benefits outweigh the costs.

In conclusion, it is plain to see how much false advertising exists in the fast food and entertainment industries. I am sure many of you have seen it and are frustrated by it. They have a major effect on people because millions patronize these restaurants. I assume that millions of people experience dissapointment as a result. Some simple changes could alter these practices. I think we should make these companies treat consumers with more respect by ending this false advertising.
