How does one become truly happy? This is a question that people have been asking themselves and others for all of mankind had existed. Does happiness come from focusing on our own goals or when we focus on helping others achieve happiness? I believe that happiness can only truly be achieved when we focus on our own personal goals. 

Focussing on one's goals and dreams can lead to happiness. People in general need to have something to aim for, something to strive for. Being goal-less and drifting through life without a plan or set of goals can make one feel lost and hopeless. One needs that goal and the ability to see all the little steps they have taken and the progress they have made. As each stage of the progress toward the goal is completed, as each milestone is reached it gives one an uncomparable sense of joy, happiness, purpose and confidence. Focusing on one's goals is a gret way to center one's self. To be able to stay on top of one's feelings, strengths and weaknesses. Focusing on your personal goals and how you can achieve them is a sure-fire way to be happy. 

One might say that focusing on the happiness of others will bring you happiness in its stead. I strongly disagree with this for many reasons. Focusing on someone elses happiness neglects your own. It makes your happiness tieed into someone else's happiness. Happiness comes from within and you cannot control whether someone else is happy. Trying to do so sets you up for failure and can lead to you being deeply unhappy. Being a people pleaser and focusing completly on someone else takes away the internal control of your happiness. It gives control externally, to someone else. People pleasers are often taken advantage of and treated poorly. Focusing on your goals can and should still have you helping others but from a different direction.  From a direction that focuses on your happiness and goals first. 

One finds happiness when one works on their goals and strives to reach them. Every milestone, every achievement, every step in the right direction brings happiness, pride and a sense of fufillment. Focus on your goals and you will find your true happiness. 
