Materialism, or rather aquiring posessions and spending money, has been constantly criticized in modern life. Modern society has been repeatedly criticized for being "too materialistic",  yet many people often say this while still consuming more and more goods to create a higher status for themselves or to determine that they are a more happier person because of their things. In this instance, materialism can be seen as a piece to the cycle of aquiring and spending money. Making money for most people is to use that money to have nicer things than they already do in their current situation; saving money for a new car, buying a house, clothes, etc. Materialism just plays a part in what type of car, how big of a house, or what brand of clothing people will buy.

Materialism itself should not be the main factor to be criticized in today's society. If a producer is making a product, the point of their manufacturing is for that product to be bought. If a consumer has made money and wants to purchase that product, they should be able to without being called materialistic if they choose a name brand product over a generic one. Take for instance a pair of shoes. Nearly everyone in America can say they have owned at least one pair of shoes, yet the brand and type of shoes owned by each person is vastly different. Some people buy tennis shoes, some buy sandals, hiking boots, etc. Then one can factor in the brand and determine there are so many name brands for each type of shoe. One person may want a Nike shoe, while another may desire an Under Armor shoe. Both consumers, who have made the money to purchase these shoes, should be able to buy and wear the brand they choose without being criticized for it. If their goal, after buying the shoe, is to show off to other people that they had they money to buy that brand of shoe, then who are we, as a society, to tell them they can't do that? If someone believes a certain brand will make them more desireable to others, then why should they be criticized for doing what makes them happier? The consumer has rightfully earned the money to buy the product, regardless of their reasoning.

With that being said, one can also understand a counterargument for this claim. Materialism can be seen as giving someone a sense of status or power, since they can acquire nicer things that someone else with less money. While this may be true, the fault of this does not lie soley on the consumer. Other factors go into account, such as the producer making a higher priced product, jobs with many different wages so not everyone is able to make the same amount, location, how one was raised, etc. If there is a market for something, people will buy it, regardless of whether society is critical of this purchase or not. There should be nothing wrong with people wanting to obtain nicer things. At the end of the day, the goal of making money is to spend it to better your time here on earth, since you can't take money with you after you die. If acquiring things makes people happy, they should be allowed to do so. What a person wants to do/buy with the money they earned should be no concern society as a whole (unless it's illegal of course).

Overall, modern society should not be criticized for begin to materialistic. As a society we are constantly growing and devloping new products and technologies to enhance our lives. Purchasing these items should not be shunned or looked down up just because they may give certain people a "higher societial status". As long as a persons basic and emotional needs are met, and they want to buy a higher priced or flashier item, then they should be within their right to do so. Society as a whole is what gives these certain products their status, so in a sense society has developed materialism and turned it into a business. If people have the money and wish to spend it on items that they feel bring them happieness, more power to them. Each individual is responsible for their own choices, so instead of being critical of what one's neighbor is doing, they should be controlling themselves. If they don't agree with materialistic items, simply don't purchase them.


