The pursuit of happiness is a fundamental part of the average American life, and this foundational building block is instilled within us nearly from birth. As you cry in your mother's arms she begins to teach you that happiness is the emotion you, and everyone around you, desires for you to feel. It becomes an innate almost involuntary part of being human. We learn to crave it. Chase it. Stop at nothing to acquire it. So why then, in this country full of happiness crazed humans, is everyone starving for a smile? While everyone chases their dreams, pursues their next high, and corners their next victory, they lose sight of what actual happiness is - of what got them hooked on the drug in the first place. 

Humans are fundamentally social creatures, we don't like to experience our emotions alone. When we're sad, we search out a shoulder to cry on. When we're scared, we grab onto our partner's arm for support. When we're frustrated, we find an ear to bend. Most importantly though, when we're happy, we celebrate. Human life has revolved around the concept of celebration for as far back as we can recall. Celebration of conquests. Hunting trips. Exploration. Celebration of the stories of humanity itself. We celebrate, not alone, but with our community, because we achieve the greatest sense of happiness when it is shared. 

Our modern day upbringings have deluded this reality. While we continue to chase the happiness high, we do so with a lonely singular focuse. I pursue my dreams. My goals. My self interests. While many will be quick to point out that these things do provide happiness, it is merely momentary. Fleeting. It requires us to set another goal. To have something else to pursue. It's an ever moving target. We're still craving more. That more is the happiness of those around us. It's the joy of those we celebrate with. It's the community, the social nature, of what it means to be human. 

That community can celebrate more than just my accomplishments. It celebrates yours. Hers. Theirs. Ours. It is a constant stream of reasons to smile. Of togetherness. It provides a regular source of external happiness, and a wealth of amplifying support from others. It's the perfect symphony of harmonious happiness. 

If we focus on nurturing the happiness of others in our community, of our loved ones, of neighbors, of complete strangers, we provide ourselves endless opportunities to celebrate - to be truly happy. If we put our energy into improving the lives of everyone, we improve our lives too. When the rest of the community returns the favor, it boosts us just as significantly as focusing on ourselves would have in the first place. A happiness echo chamber is created. Unstoppable. 

By investing in the happiness of others, you are equally investing in the happiness of yourself. You are nurturing the root of what it means to be human, while growing a community, and blooming as an individual. Let's be human. Let's celebrate together. Let's be happy.
