          Modern society has quickly turned human beings into hoarders.  Our desire for things causes us to work more and more hours.  The majority of Americans have little to no savings although working more hours and making more money than ever before.  We feel the constant need to keep up with the materialism of our neighbors and society in general. Meanwhile, our happiness levels are lower than ever before. It is safe to say, we need to focus less on material goods and more on experiences.  
          Our current economy needs more and more workers to supply the ever constant demand for more "things."  Households across the United States typically have both adults earning wages from full time employement.  That means each household is supplying eighty hours of time each week to support this materialistic habit. Not only do we hoard our belongings, we are unsatisfied with these belongings are soon as they become "outdated".  So, we buy more and work more to afford newer things.  We are a society of consumers all. 
          A simple life usually generates more happiness than a extraordinary life. Then why do we all strive to live in large homes, drive large cars, and own the latest tech gadgets?  Every man and woman covets our neighbors belongings and ignore the time they must spend at work to attain this.  If we lived a simpler life, we would have more time to enjoy our families and the things we do own. However, the constant drum for something new, something else keeps us away from the things we have already accumulated. 
          Pre-1980, most households were single earners.  The women took care of the cooking, cleaning, gardening, and child raising.  Now, we have to pay someone else for all those things while we spend most of our free time working for someone else.  All because we desire monies to buy materialistic goods.   Not only is our happiness suffering, so is our health.  Our families are overworked, underpaid, tired, and unhealthy.  Why do we keep pursuing this desire for more things when it is slowly killing us?
          Worldwide, we need to stop consuming.  Let's get back to the good old days when our goods lasted for decades instead of months.  We know that we do not enjoy working, we all crave time off.  What if the secret to having happiness was to stop buying all the things we see advertised?  
