Some people are happy to just wake up alive in the morning.  They feel blessed by every little thing.  Other people who seem to be oozing money and prestige and advantages are miserable and find no real happiness in life.  So what is happiness and how do we get it?

I don't believe that pursuing ones own interests without examining what you can do to help others or to "make a difference" will lead to much happiness in the long run.  Always trying to get something more or be something different or even to catch up with or pass someone else indicates that deep down one is not happy with oneself.  And I believe that "being happy with oneself" is key to finding that illusive happiness. 

We all know people who seem to have everything.  But their lifestyle indicates that they are bored, unhappy, going from party to party, looking aimlessly for something that is just out of reach.  The rates of alcoholism, drug abuse, divorce, and suicide attest to major unhappiness and discontent in these people.  Pursuing their own interests seems to lead them to become people who look back on their activities with disdain and self hatred.  I believe that obeying a higher being is the answer.  If we are good and moral people, we will naturally be busy helping others and making life better for people in our own vacinity and/or around the world.  There is little time to spend chasing after ones own pursuits if we are involved with doing good.  At the end of the day, we will feel like we accomplished something good, and will go to sleep feeling better about ourselves.

There are those who do not belive in a higher being or in good versus evil.  They feel that what they can get or do in this life is all there is, so they may as well pursue their own selfish goals and make the most of it.  They often find that in the end, life for them was empty and pointless, making them depressed and sad.

Doing the "right thing" might not be enjoyable at the time and might even seem a waste of time, but I think that when we look back on who we are and how we got there that we will have an inner happiness that cannot be replaced by worldly goods or activities.  Have faith in your maker, do good and be happy.




