I think that modern society should be criticized for being materilistic. It is so damaging to the American culture. At best, everyone loves to show off. But at this point in time we just do not care and like to show off the best of the best. Everyone wants the best, but not everyone can have the best. I feel that it is unfair that people show off what they have. 

Money does not always equal happiness. You can be happy with out spenidng money on unecessarry things in life. Nor do you need to show off what you have bought. A prime example would be the Kardashians. They have so much money and have the need to show off their latest object. The outlandish parties they have for their childred are never needed. They wont remember them.  Granted some of the things they do are sponsored and they do work hard in their businesses, they do not need to show off their personal lives like they are. 

Instagram, social media in general,  is a horrible example of how we are materialistic. It is the place we all go to take a photo of what we do to show off and how we "live" our life. In the facebook world its called "fakebooking" You make your material life look alot different than your real life. No one will ever really know how you live your life if you only show what you want to show people. 

Personally, I try not to show off what I have. I do not need to have material things to make me happy. I have everything I need to live and survive, but I do not need extras. I will admit that there are times when I do post material things, but they are not overly expensive (I am pretty sure the last thing I posted that I was excited about was my new wok). I do not need new and pretty things all the time. I just bought a bracelet from a brand that donates their proceeds to people in need. I will be posting about it because it is for a good cause and the saying that is on it is something I truely believe, but is it materialistic? No. It is doing good for something and some one. 

Overall, we need to be less materialistic in life. Less is more is the old saying to be happy. This world is going to be destroyed by materialism if we keep it up. I do not know if it would ever work to be less materialistic for some people, but it is something to think about and how to live better. Live with what you have and try to use everything you have until you need something new or an item breaks.  While we do not need to call people out for buying things, people just do not need to "show off" every little thing that they buy to say "I have money look at this!"
