We have all had a goal we needed to reach, an obstacle to overcome, at one point or another. Often we're faced with a difficult assignment at work. But, when pushed into these siutations, is it better that we work with others? Or, does added a level of "competetition" to the workplace increase employee output.

It can be said that working alone is better for some, but it's highly siutational. Yes, working alone gives people more authority and say over the detail of their work, and may produce 'better' results, but, even if these results are better, they will usually be produced at a slower rate than if those same employees worked together. Yes, competition and rivalry drive humans naturally, and will encourage people to work harder on an individual level. But, these same talented people working together can produce something possibly better, almost certainly faster.

Additionally, we can't always do everything. Working alone, competing against others, discourages helping others, heavily. If Jim doesn't know how to draw website elements, how can he produce the best test website? If Amy can draw, but can't code too well, her product will suffer in a similar way. If these two are pitted against each other, with competetion encouraged, they have no reason to help fix each other's issues, even though they both have the skills necessary to help each other. However, if Jim and Amy's boss instad promoted a coopoerative work enviornment, they could not only finish a high-quality test website for their boss, they could delegate the work between the two of them, and finish it faster than before.

In conclusion, if undertaking a task one can complete alone, and with ease, a competitive workplace can encourage people to work harder, like an "Employee of the Week" competition in a restaraunt. Everyone has a low-skill task, and just have to do it the best that week. But, when given tasks of larger size, teammates are invaluable. It increases the likliehood of having high-skilled employees working in all areas, and decreases the time that each person needs to work to comlete their task.
