Things are often not what they appear. We see this in our everyday lives, whether this refers to people, objects, or experiences. Often we're too mesmerized by what could be rather than what is. As such, it can have a negative impact.

For example, younger teens spend a lot of time on social media and pay close attention to influencers. They see advertisements with popular public figures and think that's how they should look like and act like. This can be dangerous. All too often, a popular actress is skinny because they're on an unhealthy diet and catered to by an entire team. Another entertainer may appear to be extravagant and outgoing when they perform, but introverted and anxious in their personal life. Someone else may be advertising a specific expensive makeup brand, but only because that person is getting paid to do so. This is a sneaky way to put one face out to the public but keep their true face private. Unfortunately, the public face attracts normal, often younger, people who are willing to do anything or try anything to fit in. 

On the other hand, people may argue that that isn't always the case. There are some public figures who appear genuine. Actors advocating for more mental health resources, or supporting charities. Promising one thing, and actually acting on that promise. Or, locally, people in government standing up for what they believe in to create a more environmentally friendly environment and reducing needless waste. 
In this case, they are acting as role models and having an effect on people in a positive way. Is this always the case? Definitely not. But there are some people out there. 

Overall, I think images and impressions tend to have more of a negative effect on people. There are just too many instances in which people or advertisements say one thing but do another. People are drawn to the "what-ifs" and "could-bes" and end up being disappointed in the end. If everyone and everything was as genuine and sincere as they come across, the world would be a far better place. 
