If beauty is in the eye of the beholder, where does happiness lie?  Does it come from our minds and hearts?  Or does outreach to others make up what our happiness is?  In this essay, I will examine why I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals.

Personal goals can only be defined by each personal individually; because everyone has their own unique experience and level of dedication to their goals, their commit to their personal goals occur on different levels.  Personal fulfillment is a huge factor in how people feel about themselves, perceive themselves, carry their energy, and in return, can give that energy to others in their life.   When someone has a personal goal that goes unfulfilled, it's likely that they are carrying a burden with them, which can bring down a person's energy and motivation.  When a person's energy is low, they are either 1) unable to care for others or b) spending all their energy caring for others and not saving any for themselves.  This can lead to exhaustion, illness, burnout, and ill-feelings towards others including irritation, anger, and resentment.

There are people who have the personal goal of helping others, but this is not the same as making sure that other people are happy.  When someone is putting all their energy into making others happy, they are not reserving the energy for happiness themselves.  This, especially when in a long-term relationship, partnership, work environment, etc. can lead to the person trying to make everyone happy be taken advantage of.  I believe that if someone has a goal of making people happy and are genuinely wanting to do that in the long run, part of their plan needs to include self-care and boundaries to avoid risking their own mental, emotional and physical health.

While it's ok to want others to be happy, I believe people will be more happy if they focus on their personal goals rather than the happiness of others.  When someone takes care of their goals, the are more likely to experience better energy and motivation and have personal fulfilment.  In return, this can then allow the person to help others with their happiness.
