In a workplace or especially in an important government project, cooperation seems to be the better choice.  Teams that are fixed on accomplishing an important goal should ultimately emphasize complete cooperation with each other.
     While ccompetitiveness might seem to engender harder work at times, it can  also result in people or teams concealing results from each other in order to get ahead.   Individuals that are high-flying prima donnas may achieve a lot, but unless they collaboarate and share what they achieve, the entire team could lose out.  An example that comes to mind is the work of Robert Goddard  in rocketry.  After his initial sucesses, he spirited his lab away to a hidden location in New Mexico, and would not share or discuss his rocketry research with anyone or any other group.  So while he struggled along to get his rockets to travel a mile or so, another team in Germany (with Von Braun) was making much greater advances in rocketry.  Had Goddard chose to collaborate, the US might not have found itself lagging years behind in the field as time went on.
     An intense competition can lead to people getting angry and bitter, vindictive, and even lead to possible sabatoging another groups results.   In the corporate world there have been examples of people poaching employees, exaggerating falsehoods, copying technologies, and the like, all to 'get a leg up' on the competition.   Steve Jobs touring Xerox Parc facilities, then introducing the computer mouse with the Lisa/Mac is one minor example of potential copying.   Some companies will just buy out the competition, or a competing company - easier to do that than invent things in-house.  Anything to get ahead!
     Competitiveness might be useful in a limited scope, i.e. the first team to reach an objective gets free dinner out somewhere.  But after that, complete sharing of data and results should be undertaken to ensure overall success of the enterprise.  In the corporate world, collaborative companies led by management emphasizing this seem to have done much better at bringing out new products.  Companies with narrow, siloed research departments seem to end up with more scandals, fudged data,  and poorer results.  In the corporate world, as in government research, cooperation puts the whole much further ahead in the long run.
     Some good examples of cooperation can be found in NASA JPL efforts, and SpaceX.  SpaceX in particular is achieveing extraordinary progress by pushing the boundaries of what can be done.  While I don't have an inside view of that company, they seem to cooperate across departments and get done what they must, to get ahead.   When a large group cooperates and presses ahead, there seems to be no limit to what is possible to be achieved.
      To sum up, while competition can pay off in limited scope events, cooperation brings much greater benefits in the long run too an entire enterprise, whether governmental or private/corporate.  Competing can spur efforts in the short run, but in the long run, cooperation pays off far greater, and leaves everyone involved much happier as a side beneift.   Bitterness and antagonism are minimized this way as well.  Cooperation seems the best policy to enact.

