Do People achieve more success by cooperation or by competition?  

This question is like what came first the chicken or the egg because I think that  cooperation plays a  developmental role in learning skills that lead to success  and likewise competition also plays a role in success in providing the impetus to continue through the ultimate trials and errors to find the successful strategies and paths to achieve success.   But, I feel that competition is the most important driving force in success even if it is against ones self because cooperation is a step along the way and helps to hone skills and shape one's values  to learn along with another person with similar goals and skill levels  and ultimately helps one to desire the success that they want to experience in the competition setting.
 
The reason I believe that competition challenges one to success  because it is competition that helps to develop that drive to succeed especially against others with similar or greater skills.  The most intense competition can actually be against one's self to achieve greater and increasingly greater successes than were exhibited prior to the next one.   Having a rival and opponent is stimulating and can push one to persevere and act with more drive and determination.   

We can see clearly the power of competition on the sports field.  Competitors spur one another onward to their respective goals and it can bring out strong emotions and feelings of competitiveness that drive the participants to work harder and  ever increasing with more zeal and fortitude to gain the goal.  

I know that those who are in favor cooperation have valid points for that argument but cooperation can be rather flimsy and wavering in the areas of drive and determination to achieve success and while great strides can be made and success is within reach and can be achieved often, the emotional elements that competition demands is missing and the elements of acting with a drive to push onward sometimes past comfort levels just isn't the same.  

I also thought about my own life and how I achieved some of my life's successes.  I  experienced successes working in  cooperation with others but I didn't apply myself to work hard and put myself in a position of acting with a consistency and drive toward the goals.  I would be satisfied to stay within the status quo and not put myself out of my comfort zone to achieve more than was expected.  I really  did better when a peer was observable and I put up my skills against theirs and I had a better work ethic and powered through even when I was tired or uncomfortable in an effort to do my ultimate best to better that competitor.   

I am sticking to my opinion that yes, people do achieve more success by competition than by cooperation.  
