Many people hold the strong belief that competition is the most effective method of ensuring success and innovation, while others believe that cooperation is the key to achieving success. This debate, which is very applicable to issues such as politics, economics, and technological advancement, is very complex and nuanced. But because we live in an interdependent and entangled society, it is inevitable that cooperation, not competition, is necessary to achieve success. 

Competition is inherently based on the idea of winning. For instance, when people compete in the Olympics, their goal is to be the best and to outshine other athletes. Competition is rooted in self-interest. It prioritizes the individual and dismisses the collective. But because the eptitome of society is collectiveness, cooperation is the only realistic and effective way to produce success. 

When people cooperate, they combine their intellect, experience, and skills and direct these qualities into accomplishing the goal at hand. Multiple people working on a goal means more brain power and strength. On the other hand, multiple people working independently to achieve a goal only involves one mind at a time. If you're attempting to achieve success on your own, you don't have the advantage of multiple perspectives, ideas, and skills. 

Some may argue that competition is the only way to succeed because humans are inherently selfish. However, this is false because many people do volunteer work, redistribute their wealth, and even serve as lawyers and doctors at no cost (i.e. pro bono lawyers). Most people do wish to cooperate and to help others, but are unable to do so because the current socioeconomic system is dependent on self-interest and competition. 

Although competition does lead to success in certain scenarios, people generally achieve success by cooperation. Cooperation is consistent with collectiveness (society), results in more overall mental and physical strength, and is something most people are happy to do. Cooperation is the key to success, especially in regards to long-term societal goals.



