Materialism is the collection of goods by consumers.  Businesses are created around the idea of tapping into consumers materialistic desires. Capitalism does an excellent job at meeting the materialistic desires of the consumer. It is an essential part of the modern economic machine. Materialism is the driving force behind the domestic and global economy. One must ask, should modern society be criticized for being too materialistic?

The fact of the matter is materialism, take the good with the bad, is an essential part of modern life. In order for demand to be met there must be supply. A demand for a good is going to create jobs on the supply side. For example, let's look at a pencil. When one purchases a pencil they are not only benefitting themselves but many others along the way. A pencil is made up of graphite, wood, rubber, ink and metal. All these materials were part of an industrialized process and supply chain. The truck driver, the store clerk, the lumber yard, the rubber factory etc. all benefit from the purchase of a pencil. Just a simple product like a pencil will employ many people around the globe and contribute to the economic machine.

Materialism does not come without drawbacks. A couple examples of a downside to materialism is environmental impact and poor financial decisions. Some would argue that society is using up too many resources which is contributing to a negative environmental outcome. Another serious disadvantage of materialism is that it can put consumers in a bad financial situation. Think about a typical middle class consumer living paycheck to paycheck. They decide they want a brand new flat screen television. However, they do not have the funds to purchase it. They have a strong desire to have it now so they put it on a credit card. This type of behavior can lead to bad financial outcomes. 

The fact of the matter is that materialism has it's advantages and it's drawbacks. It is a fundamental part of the economy that employs billions of people around the globe. Materialism has it's drawbacks, but that does not mean modern society should be criticized for engaging in this behavior. A voluntary exchange of goods and services is vital to a healthy economy. Job creation is a direct result from consumerism (materialism). We all should embrace materialism while at the same time recognize the drawbacks and improve it where we can.
