Materialism. It is something that has been around for over 100 years now. You can find instances of it dating back to the classic old tupperware parties your grandparents had, the vaccuum salesman who used to go door to door and even the knife sharpener, who rode down your street. Over time materialism has gotten much more significant, and much more detrimental to our society. 

Materialism has caused issues in the enviornmental issues that our world is facing, such as global warming and overcrowding. Materialism has ties with inflation and price gouging. It can even be traced back to slave labor, sweatshops and underpaid, overworked enmployees around the world. For these reasons, and more, I truly believe that our modern society should look inward, and realize the shame in which we have created such a materialistic world.

How many decorative picture frames does a home need? Is it not acceptable, now that we have the ability to display photos digitally to reduce the printing process. The process which uses electricity, paper, chemicals, physical labor and more, just for a single photo. How about toys? If you have a child or no of any, chances are they have more toys than they can ever even play with. Clothes? If you need several dressers, closets, bins, boxes etc for all your clothes, seasonal or not, you probably have too many. Again, at what cost? These items are being made for you, in the majority, by underpaid workers who are forced into horrible conditions. Then your'e throwing them into landfills that will stick around much longer than you ever will. 

These materialistic issues we have developed as a society have become increasingly detrimental to our society. We are encouraging negligent behaviours by big companies. We are allowing ourselves to participate in the culture that having more, is succeeding. Instead what we should be doing is looking at the quality. We all need to look at each other, and hold the society in which we live critically responsible for the choices that they make. Stop using the plastic cups and straws, encourage the people to buy sustainable, long lasting, versatile clothing, encourage buying used toys, donating and sharing as the children grow out of them. 

It's time to change the way we look at things, and start to see things the way they were created to be: necessities. 

I have finished my essay. I have written double the amount required. I am good at writing :)  
