To many objectivity is a goal desired by many. Being a prime rational actor who is able to justify and be correct in their choices certainly has its appeal. But trying to act without bias is not possible for people. We form impressions unconciously, we act based on feelings, and we react before we know what we are doing. We cannot control many reactions, ranging from a simple loud noise that makes us jump to the more discreet like a subliminal image pulling us us towards a certain product. Yet having these type of responses do not mean we are slaves to them, and I can say with certainty that even if we are bombarded with images that aim to impress us something, we can remain above them.

The first thing that makes images and sudden attention getting senses is that we can always decide how to think aftewards. Yes a radio commercial might choose to use sirens in advirtisement to impart in us a certain reaction. but how we rate if after depends on our introspective thought. It stole our attention, but it does not take our logic. As long as do not remain too shaken we can always return to baseline. Some might say that certain images leave one unable to return to though. To that I say that some imagery is definetly too shocking and not suitable to be used as images. But that happens only when the content itself is too impacting. Advertisements using gaudy displays to garner attention might be a bit of a surprise, but as long as they to do not try to offend us it is possible to return to a thoughtful state. And if we can always do this then clorful imagery really is no issue at all.

Fake it until you make it is a saying for a reason. It speaks of the importance of appearing competent above many things. Yet it is very common that those faking it and up feeling like an actor eventually naturally slip into the role. Because by taking aspects that are part of something we start to become it. And I say the same is true for advertisements. What starts as exagerrations eventually become part of reality. To make a positive impression is normal and desired, we want to see everyone and everything at its best. However this is only true so long as what is advertised is still trying to be as good as it says. If something is a complete lie or farce then it will all fall apart. That is because rather than trying to be an impostor, the thing doesn't exist at all. So if people are saying the complete opposite of reality, then yes I agree that can be how apperances can be taken too far.

I remain that as long as people remain able to think, and that the powerful effect of impostor syndrome remains, it is fine for people to focus on apperances. Those who strive to seem the best should not be critisized but celebrated, for they are increasing the amount of good that exists. Trying to reduce the amount of impacting imagery is a futile effort, and instead those who receive should strive to be more in control and aware of it.


