In our capitalist and industrialized society and economy, competition is often glorified. The winners of public contests between politicians or between sports teams are of intense public interest and rewarded richly, with the losers often quickly forgotten. But competition between winners and losers is only one piece of success. The only way to really achieve what we want in our lives, whether at work or in the personal sphere, is to connect and collaborate with others around us. 

In some cases, there are no clear winners or losers in life. So the value of competition becomes less clear. For example, if a coworker and I are having difficulty completing a task, there is no obvious winner if one person dominates and completes a task that requires both people. Nor do people in positions of power gain much by this type of competitive spirit, particularly if collaboration leads to the best quality work outcome. Much of what we need to accomplish in life requires discussion, negotation, and cooperation with our children, family, spouse, the person on the other end of a customer service call, with colleagues and friends. Getting what we want is a nuanced skill set of cajoling, knowing when to be kind, to be firm, to give and then to receive. Competition and rivalry tend to erode relationships because inevitably one or all parties involved may harm the other in order to win. For example, a person may take credit for their coworker's contribution to a project and get praise from their supervisor, but when they need to work with the same colleague again, the frayed relationship may interfere with future success and building the trust necessary for that success. 

Some may argue that if everyone simply works together, this will lead to stagnation since there is no struggle to prove oneself and to get ahead of others. There is a valuable role for competition and in some cases, as noted above in elections or in sports, there is only one named winner. But even in these cases, once the competition is over, once a startup competition is won, an idea is patented, or an election is over, the daily work of achieving success through relationships with others (including one's once rivals) continues. 

Competition is only one part of achieving the goals that matter to us in our lives. We need social connections with others in order to survive and succeed in life.  Success is not only about winning. It is about the daily negotations and relationships with others through which we aim to achieve what we want at work, at home, and in society. These relationships can only function through collaboration and working with others. 
