Ah, the happiness question. There are no doubt blog posts in the thousands on how people can increase their happiness -- happiness, which I would define as, one's satisfaction with their life (and/or, perhaps the satisfaction they derive and can sense in those closest to them); a person's sense of calm, serenity, and health & well-being; a person's strong sense of self, and self-worth & self-security, irrespective of others' opinions.

It's interesting that this topic of happiness should be the prompt, as I had just perused an article the other day in The New York Times, arguing whether humility is incompatible with our current state of capitalism -- which, translating to this essay, is like whether happiness can be derived from selfless humility (helping other) vs. capitalist self-aggrandizement (self-serving personal interests).

I personally think that happiness can come from both helping others, AND the pursuit of one's own goals. I think happiness can be derived from striking a balance of both these oft repeated objectives to attaining it.

Though I do not have a lot of experience in a "helping" profession, I can certainly see how people derive satisfication in such interactions with others; perhaps in part from partaking in seflessness -- and, an aspect of seflessness being, forgetting one's own problems for a while, as they immerse and dissolve themselves in alleviating those of another.

From my own experience, I can say that, at least sometimes, helping my parents out gives me a sense of well-being; or, when I have helped someone out on the job and I've known they've really appreciated it, it's made me feel...you know, warm and fuzzy inside.

However, I'd argue -- at least in my case -- this happiness is helping, has been somewhat momentary and fleeting. Perhaps it's impossible for happiness to EVER be a near-constant state?

I'd also argue that the idea that happiness is derived from helping others, has its limits -- too often, one hears of caretaker burnout. And, per the rise in ideas like codependency (and, again, from my own life's experience), there can definitely be too much of a good thing when it comes to "helping others" -- at deteriment to both the person being helped and one's self (the strong example being, enabling, in any form -- doing for another what they should be able to do themselves; or, in "helping" another, actually contributing to self-harming behaviors, like addictions). People need time for themselves and self-care -- ESPECIALLY if the person they're helping can be draining in any way.

In terms of happiness being derived from people pursuing their dreams and personal goals -- I think this is equally important to helping others, and, depending on the circumstances, perhaps moreso. 

The pursuit of individual happiness gives one a deep sense of having overcome difficulties, since I think every last person has had some personal setback or another; it fills one with a deep sense of accomplishment and wonder at one's own passion, as well as increases their confidence of sharing themselves with others. Pursuing one's own happiness, can invariably lead to helping others find theirs!

On the other hand, pursuing one's own personal desires as a means and ends of creating happiness, has its limits as well. To pursue one's dreams invariably means coming up against some form of competitiveness, jealousy and all forms of human cruelty, that can be so mentally and emotionally detrimental, it can sometimes even mean making a sacrifice of another person (i.e., one's family), to "get on top." There's then the exhaustion, stress and ill health that can come with the pursuit.

Ultimately, I think whether one find's happiness is attained through helping others, or pursuing one's own personal goals and dreams, depends somewhat on the individual (some, like Mother Theresa, don't seem as though they were even fashioned for this world!). 

For many, I think striking a delicate balance is helpful -- "don't forget to call your mom!" as they always say, haha; and, as a wonderful comment suggested underneath The New York Times article on humility as incompatible with capitalism pointed out -- why is it understood that humility should have to contort itself to capital?
