                                                                  The materialistic things are now a days reducuced. our future generation is totally changed to the modern society. the modern society will have both good and bad things. but we want to follow our materialistic to help our people in future generation. there are more machine item are discovered to reduce the work and saving the time. so this will surely make the people more lazy. in our past generation they are do thier home work with hands and their health were in good condition.


                                                               But in this generation the birth child is also having the health issues. the modern society will give more unhappiness. now a days more of the people are giving more importantce to the work . so they are mostly work in machinery item like moblie,laptop ect. but this will give many health problems in the modern society. modern society is only for our thinking not our uses. so we want to give less importance with the modern society.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      


                                                          Materialistic will teach more good things in our life. so we want to sahre this to our future generation. they want to know it. then only know how to make thier life happy. in modern society most of the people are giving importantce to money. so this will make people more stress.
