

Being materialistic creates division between people based on what they own.  We look down on those that don't have the nice house, the nice clothes, the expensive car.  But should we judge a person and react to them negatively just because they don't own all the nice shiny things?  Does this make them any less of a person?  I don't think so.  You can have all the best things in the world, but that doesn't mean that you are a good person or a better member to the society as a whole.  Modern society should focus less on being materialistic and support the society as a whole instead of only caring for individualistic wants.

We need materials to survive, and yet as a society I believe that we are too controlled by material possessions.  When you rely on possessions to provide satisfaction, you begin to lose sight of family and friends.  Highly materialistic people tend to be competitive and ruthless to get what they want.  They begin to lose touch with their compassion for others and can lose intimacy with those closest to them because of where they put others as a priority.  

You could argue that we need materials to live our daily lives, and without them we would not be able to function.  I would agree that we could not live without such things as cars, houses, clothes, phones, etc.  But is a $50,000 car really necessary?  Do you need to live in a million dollar house with 20 rooms that you never use?  Yes we need materials, but we do not need expensive things to live happy lives.  We do not need a divide of those that have material things, and those that are lacking in finances to buy the material things.  

In conclusion, materials are important to life but not what's most important and it can not guarantee happiness.  As a society we have become obsessed with our posessions, and care less about the well-being of others.  Our relationships with others are what it is really important.  We need to stop worrying about having the nicest things, and start being nicer to each other. 
