It is widely debated throughout all aspects of life, as to whether competition or cooperation leads to more success.  Many business models focus on creating a competitive environment to drive employees, while others strive to create an atmosphere which promotes cooperation.  Although competetition is a driving force in successful individuals, an overly competetive nature can keep an individual from reaching his/her full potential.  Cooperation is the one true way to guarantee success throughout all aspects of an individual's life.  

Competition drives an individual to be the best he/she can be as a person.  It keeps the individual motivated and working hard throughout the task no matter how long or difficult.  The issue with competition over cooperation; however, is that no one person can ever possibly achieve as much as a group working together.  The phrase "two heads are better than one" rings true throughout life, and if you look at any successful company or endeavor, there existed many individuals which worked together to create the success.  All of those individuals would have achieved at a very high level if in competition with one another, but they could never have achieved as much as the team working as a unit.  We can use Apple as an example of cooperation creating something great.  Although any one of those genius individuals could have created am amazing product, it took all of them working together to make something truly extraordinary.  When we all pick up our iPhones today to send a text or check Instragram, we have the combination of genius and cooperation to thank.  

The debate between competition and cooperation has been raging for many years and will continue for many more.  Although both practices can be successful when implemented in the right situation, cooperation is clearly the means to a more impressive end.  Nearly all of the great achievements throughout history occurred because a group of remarkable individuals put pride aside, and make the decision to work together, and that method will continue to be superior throughout the remainder of time.  Two heads are simply much, much better than one.                 
