          Imagine someone breaks into your house and happens to grab that one item that is irreplaceable and means the world to you. It's not irreplaceable because you cannot find the item online or in a store again, it's irreplaceable because you are unable to find a job and do not have the funds to replace it. Someone might say: well that's why you have homeowners or renters insurance. But, if you don't have the funds to replace an item then what are the chances you have the money to actually afford such insurance? Regardless of whether a person admits to being materialistic, we all have at least one material possession that means more to us than a simple object should. This is a day and age where it's so simple to just buy all of your hearts desires simply by picking up your phone and opening an app. Money makes the world go round, and materialistic purchases are a huge part of the economies growth and stability. So should society be criticized for being materialistic?
          I do not believe that we can criticize anyone, let alone the entire society, for being materialistic. This is a day and age of convenience and demand. Instead of having to go to the store to purchase something, you can simply have it delivered in an hour, two hours, or a couple days without leaving the comfort of your home. This convenience comes at a price, but it also provides jobs that did not exist before. This very convenience actually helps the economy grow.
          The convenience is provided by apps, delivery drivers, postal employees, and manufacturers which are all employing more people than before. When a person has the ease of ordering an item right from their home, they are more apt to buy items in the spur of the moment rather than if they had to travel to acquire such item. The ease to be materialistic is actually helping individuals find employment in areas they may not have been able to many years ago.
          These new jobs that have been created are putting more money into the pockets of the employees for them to spend their money elsewhere; this is helping the economy grow. An employee that may have before struggled finding employment, now has a job providing a paycheck that they can then use to buy items they couldn't afford before. Their materialism then gives a company the opportunity to provide employment to someone they may not have had the money to hire, or the need to hire beforehand. Where there is demand for an item, there is need for the item to be created and hands to create such item. The very apps we use on our phones for DoorDash, Amazon, etc require someone to create, manage, and support them. All jobs that did not exist before society just had to have smart phones.
          The very need for the devices we use to shop online is materialistic, but it is nearly impossible to survive in today's world without them and as they advance the technology; societys need to purchase the advanced products grows. Of course there are people that will say you do not need to have the best of the best, an old flip phone is just as good, or why not just have a house phone? If we do not advance with the times and stick to the old ways, there would be less chances for the economy to grow and jobs would be less abundant. Can you shun a materialistic society when in all reality it brings good to the world? Do I need that new Iphone that just released? No, I don't. But, by purchasing that phone I am in turn helping Apple hire/pay someone that otherwise may not have a job.
          In conclusion, I don't believe you can criticize a society for trying to advance itself with material possessions when in reality it helps provide a more stable economy. To purchase is to help a company expand, a person get a job, and help put food on someone's table. Money is what makes the world go round and you cannot justify criticism when someones purchase of a material item is doing just that.
