Competition is something that everyone has participated in at least one point of their life. Sometimes the competing happened knowingly and other times it was unknowingly, but it still happened with everyone. It's not something that can really be opted out of because it's a part of most aspects of life.

Competition in general isn't necessarily a bad thing. Not only can competition help motivate you to do better in whatever situation you're in, it can also be fun to try and "win" in that situation. However, competiton can also cause some problems because it can put unfair pressure on people or cause them to do things that would be considered immoral. 

That being said, competiton is still the best way to achieve success because without it, many people would never know just how good at something they are and decide to stay in their situations indefintely. For example, someone that is an athlete cannot accurately access how good they might be in their sport without competing with other people. Another example is in politics, a political candidate is essentially competing with other people to see who would be best for the position. Without competiion, it would be much harder for us to figure out who we want in certain roles.

Competition can also be a good thing when it comes to personal goals. An example of this is when we play video games. Even when it's a single player game, more often than not we are trying to complete all of the goals and do the best we can because it can be fun to beat our own expectations. It's basically a way of making ourselves better and that is not something that can be done without the idea of competition.

As said before competition has it's downsides. People have cheated, stolen, and caused harm to other people in the name of competition. Not to mention, competition is directly responsible for the capitailistic approach we have that has caused poverty and other awful parts of this world. Yes competition has caused a lot of damage, but it also is the best way for most people to get things done. Without competiton most people and the world would ulimately become stagnant and that would help no one.
