Happiness, where does it come from? It's an age old question, still unanswered. Some believe it comes from achieving your own goals, others believe it comes from helping others, and humanity as a whole. I fall into the former camp, as I believe one of the best ways to achieve the latter is by improving yourself, and doing the things that fulfill you in life.
Let's say your goal in life is to open and run a successful floral shop, I chose this specific example for no reason, it's not my own dream, I swear. Think of the level of happiness achieved at each milestone to making this dream a reality. Finally saving up enough money to get a lease on a property and afford all the equipment and the initial stock required for the business. Seeing the amalgamation of all your hard work inside the building the night before you open. All the customers coming in on opening day to see your beautiful wares, and knowing there will be many more days like this to come.
You might be thinking "well, now you're at the mountain top, you've achieved your goal, now what? Everyone knows that it's all downhill from here unless you find another mountain to climb." That's where I'm going to tell you you're wrong. That, admittedly, actually was my own dream; however, it's no longer a dream, it's a reality. I now get to go into my shop every day, tend to my lovely plants, and I get to see teenagers nervously looking around for corsages for their sweethearts, soon-to-be brides planning their bouquets for the most special day of their lives, people looking for something to uplift their hospitalized loved ones, the list goes on. And it doesn't have to be flowers, it can apply to anything, think how happy people get over the dumbest of things, even something as silly as an ice cream cone on a hot day.
I'm so happy every day I go to work, getting to do what I love, and sometimes I just look around and tell myself "I made it," not financially, but that was never the goal. Because I made it and achieved my happiness, as a result, I get to bring happiness to countless other people in my community.
In closing, I believe my own story is very strong evidence of my belief that chasing your own dreams, and achieving them, is the best way to achieve your own happiness, as well as to better the lives of others and bring them happiness as well.
