     Possession is by nature inherent in humanity. We desire gathering to fulfill our needs whether it is food or tools to make life better. With success, people amass more than they can use in a day and that leads to materialism. At what point do humans wind up with more possessions than they need? Should we judge ourselves for being overly materialistic? Is it a positive or a negative influence in human society?

     Materialism inspires people to compete for available possessions. This leads to ambition, self-realization, power, and sharing. Once people have enough to care for themselves and their family, they share the wealth with others in the community and thus amass more influence and power themselves. This never-ending cycle of success is obvious becuase the person with the most goods cannot hide it, it becomes a responsibility to take care of the property.

     The added responsibility that success brings becomes political power which finds expression through either amassing greater wealth or dispersing it through philanthropy.  For the average person, this success results in upsizing to larger homes, with more bedrooms for larger families, more recreational and socializing space. For an industrialist, this results in bigger investments in establishing endowments, charities, fellowships and wings of hospitals, all in establishing a guaranteed future success.

     Thus does materialism further the path of civilization, encouraging individuals to create their destinies from ambition, from effective living and leadership. 

     We have, however, also seen the downfall of human society through an excess of materialism and its need to overtake all other values and pursuits.  We acknowledge that sometimes, accumulation of goods, whether as extreme as hoarding, or just as compulsive as shopping excessively, is addictive, obsessive and unfulfilling as well as financially threatening. Families can be ruined by gambling, by collections that have no purpose other than owning for one reason or another. Materialism may be at the root of all evil. We can find examples of this in all cultures no matter how humble.

     At what point does environmental damage interfere with the survival of a culture?  There are many examples of societies which have been eliminated due to mismanagement of their resources, causing dispersion or extinction of the people. We face this today as well due to excessive use of fossil fuels impacting our environmental futures. From the culture that used up too many trees for homes, totems and artifacts leading to abandonment of the region, we may find a lack of land for sustainable living.

     The planet was once a huge mass of continents all ready for human expansion and exploitation. But this week we passed the 8 Billion mark in our population and we face an uncertain and unpredictable climate change looming. So values must be reexamined. And at the root of our lives, at the individual level, is materialism. How much does a human carry with him. What is the carbon footprint in terms of space? Does my 70 year old life qualify me for more space or less? I spent most of my life amassing material goods, a home and all the belongings needed for a family. But somewhere in my world, I needed to downsize, to reduce what I own. It is an uncanny realization in life.

     And so we are at the cusp of a new humanity, one that is limited by the shrinking globe in the age of the internet and age of diversity. We are all becoming more streamlined. No longer does a computer take up much space, and even with all this technology, humans remain brilliant, industrious, ambitious and successful. What is materialism? How fulfilling is it? Does it change with evolution? We will find out in decades to come as we adapt as a species. We will find new living arrangements, maybe new family styles, communities, shared housing, engineered human interactions. Materialism will change and we must be flexible. 
