Every single day humans move through a world in which they are bombarded by advertisments, visual information, and data in various degrees of mediation.  Our reallity has become increasingly complex and more difficult to navigate as our understanding of technology, as well as the resources needed to create it become more clearly defined.  At the onset of televised media, the amount of information conveyed through the small black and white screens was limited to our experience of the world at that time.  Now in this new era of growing complexity, we see television personalities in such detail that we can visually examine their pores in high dfinition video, and in addition to seeing multiple banners displaying textual information.  We can examine stock prices, and breaking news while watching a debate between multiple news anchors in different parts of the world.  
This complexity, and constructed version of reality is only a representation, and despite more positive notions regarding the free access of information implied by this openeing of possibilities, the dependence on this system provides an opportunity for the companies who control these media outlets to control narritives, and manipulate public perceptions of events through conditioning. 
Television, and consumer culture have always gone hand in hand.  Product placement in television programs was present early in the develping technology.  We now live in a society where large companies that sell consumer products sponsor entire media production companies that endeavor to sell a multitude of goods or services.  Celebrities with charisma are chosen to speek on behalf of a companies interest for a price, and somehow we conflate the nature of companies with the specific personality of the people being paid to represent them.  In the united states there is a pliticizing of world views, that trickles down into the consumer culture of people within belief systems.  Certain products resonate with ideologies biased toward specific social groups, and as those dividing lines become more defined, advertising and manipulations on behalf of corporations follows suit with more specificity.  
Reality without the filter of mediation via internet and television is endlessly subtle, and begs the question if we as humans have gotten our framing of it correct.  We need to look into ways to make our understanding of reality in the moment, less like the characatured versions that corparations create with the sole intention of making money.
