Happiness can viewed by individuals in a various amount of perspectives. Some believe that happiness comes from focusing on your own personal goals well-beings and some also believe that happiness comes from making others around you happy. Happiness can resort to the well-being of your life, your own happiness can bring happiness on to others. An individual can only be happy from their own internal feelings. You can only view someone as happy from the external feelings not their internal feelings. A person within themselves can only know if they are happy or not. 
       Happiness is what every individual truly wants, with their time here on earth. I believe a person can only truly be happy if they focus on their personal goals and pursuing their dreams. I think this because you should be able to enjoy your life to the fullest and find happiness that will better your life. You can find happiness for someone else and you end up not having an ounce of happiness. A example I can suggest for this statement is, working a job, you are working everyday to make the owner of that business money and keep their business flowing steadily. However, you can still be struggling at home to pay bills while they are happy that their business is going well. You can find your own happiness and bring that happiness onto others that surround you. 

      In Conculsion, happiness can be achieved by anyone on this earth. However it is truly up to one to figure out how they can do that. Everyone has their own opinions and perspectives on how they can achieve happiness. Improving humanity would be increased heavily if everyone achieved their own happiness. I believe that one finding themselves first can automatically create happiness energy to other surrounding him/her. An individual can also in fact find happiness by the happiness of others but do you truly end up happy? It is also nice to be want to do for others but lets face the fact that not everyone has a self-less mindset like that. I believe this is because not everyone can find a way to make themselves happy.    

