Images and impressions do not have too much of an effect on people.  To assume otherwise does not give people and consumers enough credit for being able to do their own independent research and to weigh media messaging very carefully through the lens of their own experience.

For many years, advertising and public relations agencies have promoted products and services in a way that makes them look much better than they actually are.  Consumers accept this and take these messages with a grain of salt. Often, they view advertising as another form of entertainment.  There may be some useful consumer information in advertising messages but much of it is intended simply to sell a product or service through repitition of messaging or some type of association.

For example, an attractive female model may be hired to promote a skin care product on television or through online advertising.  Consumers know that the skin product will not make them look like the ideal model in the commercial, but the product is enhanced through the association and becomes sexy or attractive in the mind of the consumer on some level. Nevertheless, the goal of the advertising agency is to promote sales and increase revenues and profits for the company selling the skin care product.

The counterargument that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people fails to take into account the fact that we are savvy and experienced media consumers.  Moving away from the field of advertising, this would assume, for example, that we could not take seriously the news delivery of an attractive news correspondent when viewers know well that the physical appearance is not at all relevant to the content of the news delivery. For many years, Walter Cronkite was the most trusted person in America, but no one would say that the long-time CBS newsman was terribly attractive. 

While images and impressions certainly do have some effect on people, it is not an excessive amount because consumers of the news media, for example, are primarily focused on content that they find credible or that supports their views of the world.  If that content is delivered by an attractive news person it may serve to keep some viewers engaged for longer but it does not effect their understanding of the content itself or its relevance to their daily lives.
