Materialism is ever present in our daily lives and has been since the beginning of time.  We work for everything that we have.  It's essential, and in our bones.  

If not driven by materialism, how else would we be able to do the necessary evils such as:  Paying our rent/mortgage, commuting, eating food?  

Materialism drives us to acquire for necessity.  We have to have the drive to need these things for basic survival.  And as almost the only option to obtain said things is to work, why wouldn't a person like to treat themselves and go beyond their essentials?

Are certain things not essential?  Sure.  The 7 dollar cup of coffee on the way to work, a luxury car, a leather couch.  Does one need that to survive, no.  But is it wrong to acquire?  Absolutely not.

Work is hard.  Most people spent at least 8 hours of their day doing it, and that doesn't count commutes and getting ready.  If they want to buy a luxury sports car to drive to their job in to make them feel good, comfortable and happy - Why not?  If they want to buy $80 lipstick to wear at their job...Why not?  And if they want to come home after a 12 hour day with commute to sink into their leather couch, and rest their weary bones - Why not?

One could say all we need is the bare minimum to get by.  But need is different than want, and want need not be a punishable offense.  

It is unfortunate we face inequalities like homelessness, wage discrimination, etc.  In an ideal world, we would all be able to get anything we needed AND wanted, regardless of socioeconomic status.

The idea that because there are less fortunate people in this world creates a "guilt" that permeates through society.  It may make them feel ashamed of the items they've acquired, feel bad for drinking a pricey coffee when there is someone out there digging through garbage cans for a piece of rotting meat. 

But is it that person's duty to give up their coffee and instead give that 7 dollars to someone less fortunate?  It's a nice idea, but not a duty or obligation.  If one has a charitable heart and opts to put their money to a different cause that doesn't directly benefit them, that is a choice.  As is the choice to use their money for themselves.  There is no wrong answer, nor a right one.  

It's a preference that ultimately no one should be shamed for, regardless of which direction they go.  It is okay to WANT things, and get them for oneself.  It is okay if it's not essential as in food, water, space to live.  It is okay to want a luxury comfort item because it looks or feels nice, and to buy it.  And it is not shameful to ENJOY it.  It is yours.  You earned the right to want it and have the means to acquire it.  

Provided a person is acquiring their belongings lawfully and not harming anyone in the process, they should be free to be as materialistic as they want. 
