I want you to think about donald trump. I know, i know, he's been out of the public eye for a couple of years now. You still remember him, don't you? You remember his style, you remember his actions and you remember how he looked and acted every time he was in front of a camera. I have one question for you. Was his image more powerful than the man himself?
When he first started his run for president until the very end, he had a target audience. He took aim on that audience and did not let go of his brutal grip on them. His hair, from the beginning has been the same despite it being constantly mocked for looking like a terrible combover. His orange looking fake tanned skin did not change, even though everyone talked about how bad it looked. His rhetoric about immigrants, antifa and liberal media didn't waver during his entire run for election and all the way to the end of his presidency. All of these things created a reaction on both sides of the political spectrum. This was all calculated and it went exactly as his team had planned.
If you look at Donald Trump's presidency, he didn't accomplish anything as far as policies or progress. The distracting nature of his whole being, however, allowed him to keep the focus on what he said and how he looked so we wouldn't notice all of the terrible things he was doing to prop up and progress his shady business dealings. His abilities as a president and a leader were next to nothing and truly was a joke compared to every president before him. The only thing we remember though, is how he looked and how he acted when he was on camera. 
It is unfortunate that he was able to manipulate enough people as well as the election system to gain a presidential run and accomplish his business goals while distracting us all with his clown show. No one really noticed. Too much focus was put on his terrible words and his confusing appearance. He doesn't care about the words he said in all of those rallys. he doesn't care about what people think of the way he looks. He cares about international trade and creating business deals with people and leaders that he would never have had the chance to had he not been elected president. He tricked us all into fighting about his appearance and words to keep our eyes of of the true nature of his actions. The effects of what he has done will be felt for many years to come but we have already stopped talking about him and what he said while he was president because that stuff doesn't matter anymore. He won, he got what he wanted and now we all have to pay the price all because his team and him were so good at making us look at him and fight about his words. He had his way with our country right under our noses because we weren't looking in the right place. 
