When we, the human species, first came into existence, we were nomadic and fought to survive. Eventually, however, we put our large brains to work and became civilized, developing into society as we know it. Once civilized, though, we found we had a lot more time on our hands than we had while outrunning predators in the river valleys of Africa. With this newly acquired free time, we began looking for meaningful ways to spend it, and so began the so-called "pursuit of happiness." Many people have joined into this pursuit since it began, with many claiming to have achieved happiness, but interestingly, the method of achieving happiness has been hotly contested. While some people claim that you must focus inward on achieving your own hopes and dreams in order to achieve happiness, others have claimed that you must instead focus outward, on helping as many people as possible. The debate will continue as long as we have the free time to do so, which appears to be for the indefinite future. Personally, I am in the former camp- you must focus on yourself and your own goals in order to become content with your life.
 
When the covid-19 pandemic hit, I was a senior in college. My parents wanted me to graduate with a degree in engineering and do one of two things: either get a high-paying job, or go to graduate school, which I would have to fund myself. I chose to go to graduate school, but not for the reason you might expect. I have played baseball since I was six years old, and I had continued playing baseball in college. I was upset that my senior year had got cut short due to the pandemic, so I went to graduate school mostly so I could play another year of baseball. However, as the pandemic wore on, and I progressed remotely through my master's degree program while playing a limited season of baseball, I began to deal with serious mental health issues. I was sick of being stuck in my room, I hated the thought of giving up competitive baseball for good once I graduated again, and I had no desire to do as my parents wanted and find a desk job related to my field of study. So, in an act of desperation and rebellion, I began to search for opportunities to extend my baseball career. To my great surprise, I found an opportunity to play semi-professional baseball in Europe while coaching youth teams at the same time. This opportunity combined three of my greatest joys in life: playing baseball, travelling, and working with kids (I have previously had great fun being a camp counselor). While my parents didn't exactly like the idea, they came around because they saw how much this opportunity meant to me. Now, I am preparing to leave for Germany in less than a month, and I am the happiest I have been in a long time.

My personal experience is a great example of how focusing on yourself leads to happiness. Before, I was alone in my room, trying too hard to please my parents and do what they and the rest of society said I should do after graduating. This pressure, along with the simple fact that working behind a desk is not what I wanted to do, led to serious mental health issues. However, once I found this opportunity which matched all my hopes and dreams, and I began pursuing what I wanted to do, my mental health improved significantly and quickly. I cannot wait to travel the world, playing and sharing the game I love with kids and adults alike. Without pursuing my own dreams, I would never have been able to have this kind of positive impact. While some may say that you should try and help others, and you will find happiness along the way, I say they've got it backwards- find happiness by doing what you love, and you will inevitably help others along the way.
