     The argument that answers the question "Does sucess come from cooperation or by competition?" is an interesting one. Many people value competition as a way to achieve high self-esteem or self-value. Others may feel safer in a group compiling skills in order to create a more balanced and ambitious project. I feel that we should value the art of collarboration in order achieve goals faster, and ensure that everyone feels properly valued.
     From my experience, when I think of competition I think of sports. The sports world was largely a male-centered activity in the past, and its no surprise that even today, boys are encouraged to compete with one another and fight in order to gain dominance. When thinking of the word dominance, violence and assualt come to mind. I see the "art" of competition in this negative aspect: a violent fight to see who will end up on the top of the "dogpile." Competition can actually be healthy in some environments and in small doses, but i believe most times this is not the case. Many competitions involve negative emotional battles; someone always takes it too seriously and ends up offending others in whatever is being played at. Someone always ends up on the losing end and, most likely have their pride or feelings hurt. If you think of the big picture at examples of competition, you can look at capitalism and see those aspects in action: billionaires and corporations on top while the people on the bottom are worlds away in poverty, stress, and struggle. This can apply to workplaces, where there is a battle of skills or popularity, and higher positions are the prize. There is very little to be gained with intense competitions.
     When looking at the idea of cooperation, though, we can visualize a combining of strengths to achieve something more than one person alone could. Like building blocks - one attached to another, attached to another - could eventually build an impressive skyscraper. Applying this metaphorical idea to work or educational environments, one could imagine people who are gifted with varying skills and talents. Some people may have weaknesses where others have strengths. Collaborating with one another, these people could create a product that is elevated due to all the different elements put to together; different eyes that see where something could be better or changed and result in an increase in the accuracy (or perfection) of the product. The final accomplisment is more significant and brings achievements to many people and benefits them all. No one gets left behind. Everyone contributes and everyone wins.
     If you look at the great achievers of the world, most of them have built their success through the use of effectively cooperation and collaboration. Competing tends to bring out the worse in people, and working together tends to bring out the best part of each individual. When deciding whether to work together as a group or work alone in a project in school, most students would choose the group because they use logic to understand that this will most likely lower their workload and improve their chances of avoiding mistakes, or be a failsafe for knowledge or experience they do not possess. This logic can be applied to the real world when choosing the best way to complete a goal, task, or start a project. In short, I believe people achieve more success by cooperation.
