It is truly understandble how materialistic behavior is commonly criticized; however, it should be. It is often seen amongst the younger generations to flash their shiny, modern, and often times useless items. Whether it is expensive plants or a robot with no function other than to follow you around your home, many feel that the world should know of their newest possessions.

Here begins our first problem. When it common to push new products onto each other and expect others to have the most expensive products, bullying quickly surfaces. After a quick scroll on social media platforms, you can witness peers exposing one another due to their choice in phone brands, homes, or even their computer browser. Lowering ones self esteem to boost their own has become an everday activity. Even worse is that that is normal to broadcast the unnecessary embarassment for all to see. 

The need to have these items encourages a life of excess. New products are put into the market faster than ever. The need to have the most, the biggest, or the priciest item in its category leads many to neglect their financial reasoning. The  search for an abundance of things lead many to an abundance of debt. Not to mention, many of these items are meant to be used for short amounts of time, encouraging poor quality and the need to replace poor products frequently. This creates too much waste in general.

And of course the major attention many give to material things leads to the misjudgement of others. In my personal community, I know of many men that observes a potential partners shoes first. I have watched men refuse to persue so much as a friendship due to the strangers shoes not fitting the imaginary and unspoken list of accectable brands for their neghboorhood. Encourgaing others to conform  to purchasing material objects leads to many even living a double life or even feeling unworthy of love.

There is too much pressure today in pushing hedonistic lifestyles. Yet, their will be complaints from the same conforming individuals that the cost of living is too expensive. Keeping up with peers severely damages the self esteem and way of living for far too many people. 

One may say that these people made their own choices in obtaining these things or that criticizing others is wrong. However, this behavior starts at such a young age. We are leaning into a society that will soon only evaluate others based off of their possessions only. If people do not see the harm in their behavior this could potentially lead to the absence of emotional intelligence and the ability to be grateful. 
