It is thought that people are more likely to be happy in their lives when they seek to serve the happiness of others. This may be true for some but, more often, it is found that people who find happiness in their lives did so by actively seeking out and pursuing activities that brought them joy. It really depends on the person and their life experiences.

The idea of finding happiness begins in early years of life. Babies, who have no concept of others, will express happiness and joy or sadness and frustration when their needs are or are not met. The sense of happiness is engrained in us from birth and cannot be separated from our selves. Although, as we grow older, what brings us happiness changes. When we are babies, a bottle and toy made us happy. As a teenager, hanging out with friends and sporting the latest fashion made us happy. In adulthood, most find happiness from their careers, homes and cars, and diversified porfolios. While other adults find happiness simply by being with their loved ones and sharing experiential moments with them. 

Some may argue that happiness is driven by media as people are inundated with images of happy people who have the most money to buy luxuries. One may find that happiness is dependant upon where you live. Those in America are driven to find happiness from external materials and the happiness of those from foreign countries like Nepal are driven to find happiness by tending their farms, communing with nature, and being with community. The benefit of being alive is to partake in various avenues of happiness attainment to find what will drive your innate happiness upward, without the need of approval from others.

In conclusion, happiness is a very subjective feeling and varies greatly from person to person. One should be adventurous and try as many activities throughout life to find what moves their floors the most. If it is found through volunteering on mission trips in third-world countries, or living in a luxury NYC penthouse with a wardrobe full of Gucci bags and dining at Michelin star restaurants, or by merely going for a hike at a nearby park and enjoying a picnic with a loved one while marveling the flutter of passing butterflies, it should be appreciated to the fullest because one day will be the last to enjoy anything in life. 
