         The topic of materialism is straight forward in the eyes of those who view it. Unfortunately, when we start to disect it, materialism is anything but straight forward. For starters, the conditions in our life and where we are born into are determinants in which side of the fence we start on the topic. Next, we must also consider how others have treated us in the past as important factors of how we feel on the subject. Lastly, the way that our society is runs at any given time can be a determining factor in the way we view this topic.
          Whether we like it or not, those that are born under considerable comfort, meaning being raised by those of means or having money, makes for a skewed view of the world. These individuals do not know what it is like to struggle and since everything comes easy to them in terms of possessions they do not value these things are their true source of value. They can never understand how important money or possessions can impact that those that may not have it or may never be able to acquire it. Additionally, the way we are treated, whether or not we have had the fortune of being afforded access to money or possessions by those more fortunate than us has a say in how we feel about materialism. If, for example, growing up an individual had a rich family that treated them well and allowed them to have access to material things, this individual may not value material items are being important. Otherwise, anyone who did not have access to these items, may 'hold a grudge' and believe that these things are important and there exists too much inequality in the world.
           Lastly, the way the world or our society runs is a huge determinant in how we feel about materialism. In a society where there exists much inequality and acess to money or material items is reserved for those with means, there tends to be a lot more jealousy and feelings that the world is unfair and materialism is the means to happiness. Those who do not have access to materialistic things are unhappy and do what they can to acquire them. In my opinion, our modern society needs to be criticized for being materialistic. Much of this is due to how our society is set up, we love to admire those with more good fortunes than us and we idolize them or hold them to a higher standard. The more those individuals have, the more we seem to show them attention. This great interest in individuals with means leads to our society focusing and putting too much weight on being materialistic.
