Materialism in modern society should be criticized! Just because materialism is the way the majority of the world act that doesn't make it right. We as a society are so worried what other people posess and what we can get. It is a sad reality now but is not what we should all be striving for at all.

There are always new products and gadgets out on the market. It is easy to be materialistic these days. The fact is being materialistic pulls us away from each other and showing our concern and interest for others. Being materialistic makes us more uncaring and cold. When someone needs help people are quick to pull out their expensive phones and make videos. They want to get views and be popular instead of helping someone who is in need. Instead of making sure our neighbors life is going ok so many of us are worried about having the best of everything. Its not bad to want to be up to date but it should never interfere with the way we live our lives and our moral values. Unfortunatly, now children are being taught to want more and more instead of enjoying being kids.  We don't need every new thing but experiences last a lifetime. Every celebrity on television is portrayed as special while they buy whatever they want and spend extravagant money on nothing. Maybe we should be praising the average person more. The person who works hard every day to provide for their family and live their life. These are the values we should all be striving for not to be the person who has the best of everything. 

It is very easy to see why we as a society would be materialistic. Material items make our life more interesting and fun. Who wouldn't enjoy all the newest technology over something older? Life can often be easier with money at your finger tips. We must simply think about who we are and how this affects us as a whole. Is this the way we want to be living our lives? It is not rare to hear people say they would like to marry a rich spouse. It is easier to be handed money without having to do much work for it. 

In conclusion, materialism should not be seen as a positive thing with society. Material items can be nice but we should always strive to care about others over items. The world would be so much better if we all took the time to show consideration and care. No one has to have material items it is a choice we each make. If everyone could look up from their cellphones and see whats around them the world could be a better place. Materialism will bring this world down at some point that is certain.
