People should not be criticized for having nice things and wanting to show off what they have been able to achive and buy. Everyone wants a nice home to live in and a nice car to drive and that is what hard work is able to buy. I like most people enjoy spending money on items that I need or want but like some people I have a habit of spending more then I make and use credit to get even more consumer goods. I tell myself that this is what makes our economy grow. 
People get in trouble when they spend more then they make and can afford which can lead to a lot of family problems and depression if they are not able to get out of debt. A person that is to materialistic can have major problems that can lead to bankrupcy or even homelessness. A person can enjoy buying things and spending money in moderation and still enjoy life. Enjoying life is what we all strive for and living within our means helps us do that. 
I think sometimes our society has become to materialisitic when I see these massive houses gas guzzeling cars and tons and tons of wasted food. What we have done with our great demand for consumer goods and fossil fuel is our made climate change worse and our environment at a critical state for all living creatures. There are a lot of animals that are extinct like the black rino or on the verge of going extinct like the black panther if we don't slow down our demand for consumer goods and being so materialistic. 
I believe in land use laws and zoning laws and think that big business should be held liable for the damage they are doing to our environment and should start paying our more money to clean up the oceans and water ways. Big business should come up with ways to recycle what they make and use recycling a main idea in what they produce. 
I think we as consumers can be materialistic just more in moderate amount and concerderation for the world around us. We need to think more about our environment and climate change and what we will be leaving our children to enjoy or not enjoy. Lets all enjoy what we can buy but don't over extend our consumption of goods. Remember to recycle.
