 First and foremost, what is been materialistic? Materialistic is the love for excessful possessions of materia things, it could be money, fashions wears, land, property and so on. Most people belives that owning, purchase material things are the most important things that can give them joy and fullfulment.
 Materialism is also a form of sickness, because when you like somothing too much, it is actually a problem.

 Look around you, take a very close look at people who are highly materialistic, they live a very selfish live, they prefer to waste their money on things that does not even matters. when you make research about this people lives, you will notice that most of them do not care about their enviroment nor want goes on around them, all they care about is how to aquire, purchase and own expensive things.

  Modern society need to criticize, caution the act of been materialistic and let the world know that there are better and needful things we need to focus on, other than been so materialisic. I had this friend, when i was in college, she is from a poor background, but when she got to college she met this handsome young guy, who was always ready to meet her demands and grant her, her wises, she was so into the material things, this lady, doesn't save for raining days, she takes money from her boyfriend, go shopping for expensive things, like gold chain, bags, shoes, makeup that are very expensive, It got to a point the boyfriend started withdrawing from because she was into material things alot. At the end of the day the boyfriend broke up with her and even took some of the things he bought for her, this lady was back to where she started from; been poor again, she finished her college with a lot of debt. So, let say she thought about saving when she was talking money from her boyfriend and buying expensive things, she wouldn't be in college debt. 

  Everyone want to own things that are very nice and expensive, but when your love for those things get too much, it is what i will term as been materialistic and self-centered. Believing in power and a symbol of product and it cost and actually purchasing excess of it is something that the society should try to stop.
  
  Therefore, i will say in my opinion, that the modern society should criticize people for been materialistic and advice the society to focus more on the things that will benefit the enviroment and the economy. We can always enjoy life in a moderate and decent way.  
