It is often said that modern societies are becoming too obsessed with acquiring wealth and showing off that wealth to others. The implication being that this materialistic mindset makes societies lose sight of what really matters in life and become very shallow with incorrect priorities. I don't deny that a mindset of gaining wealth is prevalent in modern society but I don't think it has shaped people's main goals in life and it can actually serve as a tool for motivating people to achieve their goals in life.

A normal person's main aspiration is to find a good job that can provide enough money for themselves and their loved ones to live a comfortable life. It is not seen as shallow or materialistic for you to aim for a life with more comforts than were available to your parents or grandparents. To get a good job, one needs to do pretty good in school and show some ability and aspiration to teachers and employers. Having the goal of living better and having more material goods can then motivate you to gain knowledge and skills that you might not work towards if you were just going to end up with exact same level of comfort as your parents. Having had an education and finding a good paying job then allows you to purchase goods and experiences that can enrich your life. I don't see it as a bad thing if for example you travel to an exotic location and then take lots of pictures and show them off to others because even if your motivation was materialistic, you still experienced the exotic location that you might not have visited. Thus materialism can and does motivate people to better themselves.

The criticism that is often heard is that people will just want to gain wealth and become influences and not develop skills like being a doctor or an astronaut. But those jobs which are important and respected in a society also come with social reverence and material goods. So the same materialistic attitude that makes you want to gain wealth and admiration from others will produce doctors and accountants and teachers. What people really want is to be admired and respected by other people. Even someone who gives up material goods and criticizes modern society does it in front of other people so they can be admired for being above it all and somehow superior. It is hard to criticize materialism, when what we are really criticizing is the human need for admiration and attention. That's built into us and is never going away. So we can use it as a tool to steer people towards role we want to be filled. Pay teachers more and the same materialisitic attitude that creates influencers will create more teachers if people see that being teacher is admired by others. 

Our desire for material goods comes from our innate desire to be respected by others and is very unlikely to be changed. For all of history, man has tried to better himself and live better than his previous generation. This desire causes us to work and grow as people towards one day living better than we currently do. This motivation should be used as an incentive towards creating positive outcomes in our societies. 


