Packaging and appearances in general definitely play a roll in the consumers or public's eye.  Not only does it catch someone's eye or ear, it influences the person.  Much like first impresions when you first meet someone.  It puts a heavy weight on someone's thought later on.  For instance, packages in the stores to bring someone's eye to choose their products as appose to another product that does the same or is similar.  Another way would be much like news happening on the television.  The headlines they cover is not always the complete truth but that of one side so the audience is swayed to think differently or so you can tune in for more later.

The first I would like to speak about is the packaging of products.  Of course, as a child, colorful packages and images bring their eyes to that product.  It may not be a great item inside the box, but the images and colors represent something else.  That child would then ask their mother if they could have it.  Of course, the retail stores put those specific items at a child's eye level so they notice it.  And as children grow older, people can grow out of that stage, but not always fully.  Consumers are all the time guillable to promotions, sales, and still the packaging.  

Another instance would be the media.  The media protrays life events so that it spins in the direction that would cause the most controversy so the audience will continue watching and they can continue the stories.  I am not saying all news stations do this, but a majority do.  For instance, the media may tell a current story about a shooting.  They may even receive and show part of a video that a witness captured.  But the whole video may not be shown so it can cause people to judge one way or another causing people to not be able to side with what they feel right, but the way the media wants people to feel.  

Now there are other sides to both arguements.  Of course, with the food packaging, the products could be said that they did not want adults having to reach down to get their items since they are usually taller than the average child.  And the brightly colored packaging could be persieved as colors of the rainbow, but to me, it is to grab the attention of the audience they are trying to reach.  The media could argue that they are just stating the facts.  But how are facts to put to the public wholy.  

I find it very difficult for me to believe appearances are not altered and are true reality.  There is always going to be an audience of a product, news story or more.  In order to reach some audiences, they prey on what motivates the consumer and use it.  Packaging for products and the media's news stories are just a few examples.  
