We are surrounded by glossy images of capitalist promises offering us a better life if only we buy their products or look like so-and-so celebrity; but what if none of these things are necessary or even desirable for living a fulfilling life? How do humans respond to the constant barrage of offerings from the marketplace? 

I'd argue that the psychological damage that comes from being fed a constant diet of manipulated images intended to intice consumption is fed into our psyches from a very young age. Children are subjected to seeing these images, whether it's the newest toy, the sugariest cereal, on the beautiful actor on tv that the will secretly grow into wanting to be like, the images leave us in a deeply unsatisifed state. No one can aspire to own all the fun toys available, our parents often can't afford to buy us all the sugary deliciousness advertised to us (nor should they, for obvious reasons), and we are all not going to grow up looking like the Rock or Kim Kardashian. But these very real desires are driven into our heads on a sub-conscious level again and again which could lead us to an unsatisfying life experience because the goals are out of reach for the normal person.

This is a symptom of a deeply sick society. Over the past couple of generations we have seen youth depression rates rise. You people today was to be rich, famous social media influencers with Rolexes and Lambroginis, and great abs. Gone are the dreams of being firefighters, doctors, astronauts. Our mass media cultural messages have driven them to wanting only fame and riches and to be 'hot.' The market offers a solution to these desires in slick packages and commercial offerings that promise to satisfy our inner desire to be beautiful, to feel like a star, to be desired. 

This desire to acquire those things whivch the market offers to help us feel like winners often has the opposite effect. We get the shiny things which we covet and then are left feeling empty inside and need to go back to the marketplace for another hit of that feel-good consumer candy. 

This deep dissatisfaction drives us to many maladaptive behaviors, whether its depression, workaholism, drug addictions, or simply living a deeply dissatisfying life, we have been programmed by the market to consume at all costs. 

Bankruptcy, divorce, depression, plastic surgery addictions can all be considered terminal results of the emply promises offered by the advertising marketplace. It's a deeply dissatisfying approach to satisfying the real needs in life which follow Maslow's theory. Self-actualization does not come in a slick wrapper, it is an emply promise that the market feeds us. 

How can we escape the siren's call of artifical fame and beauty? Education seems to be the best counter to these lures. Young people must be taught that the offers aren't real. That the real offers are between the pages of books, in friendships and family relations, in real acheivements like sports and academics can bring. Happiness can be had for free. It lives in the warm springtime breeze, the first snow of winter, a foggy sunrise on the meadow. We have forgotten how to stop and marvel in the sheer wonderfulness of the world around us. 

The world can be a better place. It is up to all of us to reject the mass indoctrination driven purely by greed, we must teach our youth the keys to genuine happiness. But first, we must learn these lessons ourselves. Repeat after me: you are not what you buy. Now, as the Internet likes to say, go touch some grass.  It's free. 


