If you were to ask me twenty five years ago when I was growing up as a teenager if images had too much of an effect on people I would have laughed. No one cared and if the ones who cared actually said something, then they were snobby and would have gotten beat up. But if you look back, I didn't have the internet, cell phones, TikToks, SnapChats, etc. 

Now fastforward to now-a-days with the kids who have access to everything like cell phones and the internet. All they see are perfect bodies, skin, hair, teeth, clothing, etc., which is putting into these childrens minds that they need to be like this and to look to be accepted. Then as parents we have to try and explain to these young little mids how no, this is not really how they look, and no one can ever looks like that in real life without some kind of body/facial alterations. Whether it's a breast job, nose job, lip injections, eyebrow lifts, butt implants, tummy tucks, all the way down to the simpler things like hair extensions, fake eyelashes, veneers, and even photoshop, anyone that is in the entertainment, political, musical business, etc. have one, two, three, or all of the alterations done.

Now yes I understand that for most teenagers, adults, whoever, that they envy the looks of others and they don't take their obsession of looking perfect like them aren't talked about, heard of, or discussed often because it doesn't happen to extremes that often. I can argue that it can't happen to you or someone you know because I used to say the same thing that it makes no sense, but when Covid came, my son developed body dysmorphia. Him being such an energetic, playful, needing to get his energy out kind of boy now being stuck inside, he started to constantly watch TikTok. This lead in to a long battle that is just slowly calming down but still having some fall backs.

My son went from a football player who was out every day with his friends playing football, basketball, or just being boys doing who knows what, to being a depressed, body, face, and tooth obsessed child. He started to pick at his body that he look it up on TikTok about throwing up after you eat and he tried that. He wanted dentures because his teeth aren't perfect and super white. He had to see his doctor about acne medicine because all he would do was think about his acne. It got so bad he wanted to commit suicide and attempted at one point by overdosing on allergy medicine. He is now better 95% of the time compared to an all day and yes all night problem.

So yes, I do understand that they're just people on television who are fake and we need to let our children know and most children don't feel like my son, but then there are the ones out there who do and it causes them body dysmorphia. Putting normal looking people who aren't "perfect" is something we should be more focused on as well. 
