First, I would like to address the meaning of happiness. For some that might mean reaching the top of their field or sport, while for others it could mean simply living a life with family free from troubles. Generally, you can divide people into two large groups for who happiness holds different meanings. These two groups of people are those who find happiness to be the pursuit of their own goals and those whose happiness lies in helping others find happiness. I will be making the claim that people who focus on the happiness of others are more likely to be happy.

To clarify what it means to find happiness in the happiness of others, it does not mean to completely forgo your own goals, but it rather means that your own goal of happiness is helping others. For example, a doctor might feel that helping others is his own personal goal, but this is still different from someone who's happiness is becoming the strongest person in the world. One strong supporting argument for this is that empathy is human nature for most of us. When we are surrounded by people who are sad, we are more likely to become sad ourselves, and likewise for happiness. While making others happy might not be the end goal of everyone, it is true that helping others makes the vast majority of humans happy themselves. So while someone who pursues their own goals might not necessarily feel happy afterwards, someone who pursues the happiness of others will highly likely be happy themselves. 

Another reason that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on others is that each person has their own specialized set of skills and talents. If someone who is an expert chef and another person who is an expert baker work together for each other's happiness, then they would have the advantages of being able to both cook and bake without having to learn the other all over again. Similarly, our current society is set up so that while more people might want to pursue self-interests, we make it so that it is in their self interest to work for the betterment of society. A software developer might not have an intrinsic want to code, he might simply enjoy the pay it gives, but the work he does is still better for society. In return, plumbers, architects, chefs, and all sorts of people will work to ensure that he has good plumbing, a good house, and good food to eat making everyone overall happier. 

One possible argument against focusing on the happiness of others, is that many people are abused when they work for others. Someone who works their fullest for a company that doesn't care about them would probably be happier starting his own business and working towards his own self-interest. In my opinion, the reason that they end up this way is because whoever abuses them is also focused on their own self-interest. If they end up starting their own business, it's possible they simply end up mistreating others the same way they were mistreated. When a child suffers from abuse or neglect growing up, they are far more likely to do the same to their own children. So it's not that working for the happiness of others is making them less unhappy, but that if more people worked for the happiness of others, they would be happy themselves too.

Another possible argument is that focusing on the happiness of others sometimes isn't possible when our basic needs aren't met. If hundreds of people are starving, it's natural for the vast majority to want food for themselves and not think about others who are also starving. When someone close to us is afflicted with a disease, we care much more for them than we do when a stranger gets the same disease. It's not possible for us to focus on these at the same time when there are more pressing matters. The counterargument is that, we live in a world today where some countries never have to worry about drinking water or having enough food. Caring for others would help solve this in many other countries too. Working together internationally is the best way to make sure humanity improves against illnesses from nature that cause us so much distress and suffering. In the future, we might have solved many of today's problems and caring for others will be one of the best ways for us to acheive happiness.

In conclusion, while working towards the happiness of others might not making everyone happy currently due to problems out of any single person's control, it will make far more people happy than working towards our own personal goals. If everyone worked towards the happiness of others, humanity as a whole would be able to advance together to eliminate diseases, hunger, thirst, and wars all across the world. 
