What is the purpose of life? Are we here just to simply exist or live life to the fullest and enjoy each moment? Can one really enjoy life if they aren't happy? I believe that happiness is a privelge and not guaranteed. Therefore, people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals because no one is really happy if their mental health is sacrificed in any way. Factors that will have a negative impact on mental health are ecomomic and personal issues that don't contribute to a person's happiness.

Economic issues negatively impact mentallly health, which leads to stress and unhappiness. With inflation and a pandemic that seems neverending, people now have to work multiple jobs to support themeslves and their families. Often, people look for the "better paying" jobs because those postiions will take care of the bills, but the person finds themself overworked, underpaid, and unahppy because they feel stuck doing a job they don't love. As a result, their happiness is sacrifced.  Some may argue that the person should be grateful that they have a career because other people are struggling to find job; since the pandemic, unemployement has drastically increased, and millions of businesses have suffered. That said, I think gratittude is irrelevant when a person's mental health is at stake. We're all grateful for plenty of things in life. It doesn't mean everyone should suffer when they aren't happy. 

Persoanl issues also play a significant role in a person's happiness. One may desire to start embark on a new journey in life, such as starting a family, new career, or a business. All are challenging to do without a strong support system. A family member who tells someone "you're being unrealistic" because they want to puruse their dream job isn't thinking of that person's happiness. People may debate that the family member is being honest and preparing them for the "real world," but as I've stated, those family members need to think of that person's mental health. It's best to support someone's goals and aspirations instead of tearing them down.

In summary, I strongly believe there would be more happiness in the world if people had the chance to do what they love instead of doing what they have to do to survive. In other words, they should foucs on their personal goals, which will lead to supporting the happiness of others. When people are happy, they like to see others happy. 
