Happiness is derived in so many different ways. For instance, my best friend considers that life is not for simply being happy. Life is meant to do your best to help those that are not as fortunate as you are, including all the creatures that inhabit the planet with us.
I believe this planet is a wondrous and awesome place to watch magic happen everyday-- in the way the breeze moves leaves to dance, how birds speak to one another, the roar of the ocean and the slice of lightening with its bolt of thunder. I want to experience and be a part of what's on this planet, rather than to think about what life might be about. Since I don't believe in God, but rather in the spirituality of nature, I am not living my life to please anyone but myself and another person that I am sharing my adventures with. 

If I were in a position to improve our society, our humanity, I would attempt to focus on that; however, I'm not equipped with those skills. I think that people need to find their core truths in order to decide what makes them happy. If they learn to love themselves first, then they can proceed to help others find their purpose/goal in life. If you are goal oriented, then you will derive happiness from finding and succeeding with that goal, no matter how long it takes and how much work needs to be done. 

I believe that happiness is loving another person with my whole being. If together we can help others along the road, then that would be the ultimate happiness-- to not only live to make yourself happy, but to give to others and help them on this path. We need to do what we feel is the best method to ensure happiness in our life. If we heed our own inner conciousness, then we will have discovered an easier way to approach all the jagged edges that we encounter in this life, and not waste a prescious minute on tragedies and setbacks.  

Society can be harsh, and sometimes it requires compassion, sensitivity, and learning that one must develop their own common sense. In order to be happy, one must follow the beliefs that they have accumulated like a huge suitcase. Everyone learns by making mistakes. They learn what makes them feel happy, secure, at home in the world. Therefore, we need to figure out what we need in life in order to be happy. For me, it has been to simplify my life. For others, it may be to gain power or to have children. There are so many different ways to be happy in this world and, being able to focus on these personal goals, we will be able to decipher our own paths in this upside-down world. 


