     As Goldie Hawn famously said, "The only thing that will make you happy is being happy with who you are." Many may dispute this simple quote for various reasons, but the fact is, a person can't be truly happy until they are happy from within. Sometimes it is as simple as choosing to be happy and see the good in every day, for others, it takes work; mental work to unpack the baggage of our past, or physical work to improve our bodies so we feel confident. Either way, being happy means we live our life on our own terms, not beholden to those around us to supply us with happiness.
    Devoting our days to "filling the buckets" of others leaves us drained and unable to do the activities that we would rather fill our time with. This eventually leads to burnout because nobody is able to be selfless all the time. Likewise, it is a bad idea to rely on others to supply us with a steady stream of happiness. In the modern age, many throw around the term self-care as a way of saying they are having a lazy night in, not cooking dinner, etc, but the reality is, Self Care is a very valid tool that can lead to our internal happiness. How can we take care of others if we don't first care for ourselves? Our time on this planet is short, and we would be wrong to not put our own happiness first and foremost. 
     Some people have a desire to help the world, and say that makes them happy. However, those people are rare, and we should not compare ourselves to them. In my opinion, causing positive change is a thrill, but a thrill is not the same as happiness. Thrills are short-lived, so those people have to keep pursuing more and more projects to feel the same way. True happiness is long lasting and withstands the ups and downs of life. Being happy makes the highs feel better, and keeps the lows from feeling quite so low.
     There are always barriers and roadblocks on the path to happiness. I believe finding happiness looks different for everyone. Some people can greet each day with the resolve to see the good and be happy. They make a plan and reach their goals with seemingly little effort and move through life with  no problems. Others struggle with meeting their goals and disparage themselves rather than seeing the setback as an opportunity for growth and a chance to regroup. At the end of the day, those who march to the beat of their own drum, no matter what it sounds like, rather than the beat society wants them to follow, will be happier. We don't have to do the things society says we should, all we have to do is find simple pleasure in the day to day... and that comes from within.
    
