 In our society peoples spending our time to develope their business to earn money. It is leads yo materialistic life. We have to concentrate our real life too. Being too materialistic is may criticize our society. Everybody can change to inhumanity peoples and loves turns into hate. In our culture we are all have to respect everyone and treat them equal. But materiaslism is more consuming their all behaviors as hard like stone hearted. Our inner beauty reveals our soul like our behavior reveals our character.
    
                   Materialism is consider about mostly we are have importance to money to fulfil their needs. At that same time we cannot remember our family and happiness. Materialism can change the people as more selfish and greed to earn money as well. We are all intrest in have to earn more money than own happiness. It will turns to more negative thoughts.

                    Money only cannot gives a peace to our mind and heart. Love and humanity is more important. Materialism gives us economically we get rich but personally we get poor.    
 Life is too short so enjoy with our lovable persons and survive the world. materialism is leads to a machine life to us. Materialistic life criticize our mental health also.                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                               
                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
