You always hear people say "happiness comes in many forms".  How true is that statement? What is the true source of happiness? Is there only one true source of happiness? Can people be happy helping others AND helping themselves? Let's think about it. 
Finding happiness in your goals can be rewarding, but what happens when you reach your goal? I have a friend whose main goal in life was to graduate college. Ever since they were a kid thats all they dreamed and talked about. That friend just graduated college and has no idea what to do next. They reached their personal goal and now feel lost and confused. You could argue "well, why don't they set a new goal?" they very well could. They could coninue to set goals and when they reach them set a new one.  But they would always have a moment of depression when they realize they reached their goal and have to set a new one. We also have to think, what happens if they can't reach that goal? What if my friend never got into college or never graduated? Wouldn't that cause even more depression and confusion? Life is always changing and we never know what is going to happen next so we really cannot count on personal goals to bring us happiness. There are too many factors that could affect our personal goals and in turn our happiness. 
Finding happiness in others happiness can be very rewarding as well. Helping others can help us realize how good our life is. Many depressed people - including myself - have said that when they feel down, helping others and volunteering lifts their spirits. Sometimes people get in their head and think life is so bad, but when they feed the homeless or talk to sick elders they realize their life is actually alright. Yet again, there are downsides to having your happiness rely on other peoples moods. Some people are misreable and will never be happy. If you try uplifting someone and it doesn't help, you will begin to be miserable because the other is miserable. People can also take you for granted and abuse your kindness. If you have boundaries it can be very rewarding to have your happiness rely on others happiness. If you don't have boundaries it can be a slippery slope of people abusing your kindness and stealing your happiness. 
In turn, there really is no correct answer to this question. It all comes down to boundaries and being able to be flexible with your life. Personal goals can bring great happiness as long as you understand that life happens and you may not reach your goal. Others happiness can bring you joy if you set boundaries and do not let people walk all over you. I personally believe helping others is the best way to find happiness. There are less factors that play into it negatively affecting your happiness. If you have strong boundaries and realize humans have ever-changing emotions, it can be greatly rewarding to help others and make them happy. Getting outside of yourself is an excellent way to rationalize your emotions and reshape how you view life. Helping others will always benefit you.
