I live in a condominium in Chicago. We have two buildings, each with six units, so there are twelve units in total. If you go down to our basements, you will see an enormous amount of stuff. Stuff that has been collected by our unit owners over the years, stuff that overflows from storage units, stuff that people can't seem to throw away. Do these items have any value for their owners? 

This is just my personal experience, but when presented with a larger question like, "Is modern society too materialistic?" it is hard not to relate the question back to my own life and the people living around me. After all, any criticism that modern society is too materialistic must ultimately reflect on yourself, and on your own behavior. It is easy to criticize the modern wave of Instagram influencers as a breakdown of society in a materialistic orgy, but harder when you look at the lives of yourself and your neighbors, and turn that criticism to your immediate community.

After all, if you're criticizing society for being too materialistic, for pursuing possessions and income, aren't you really only criticizing people who are more active in this pursuit than yourself? It reminds me of an old George Carlin routine, where all the people who drove slower than him were idiots, but all the people who drove faster than him were maniacs. Criticizing society for being too materialistic is fatuous, a self-congratulatory pat on the back to your own relatively ascetic behavior. The criticism is tempting, maybe even justified. Nobody would argue that we need more consumption. But if I tell my neighbors that they need less stuff, then I'm just a busybody.

Going back to the basements in my condo buildings, I really do think my neighbors hang on to their stuff a little too tightly. Acquiring new possessions is fun and exciting, but everything you acquire just becomes something that you have, and then, something that you have mouldering down in the basement. I think that the chase of money - and the spending of it - is rewarding for people, and I'm not ready to condemn society in the pursuit of it. But I do wish my basements were a little cleaner.


