People are constantly taking in all types of media and packaging around us. It is a daily occurance.  We are constantly taking in outward stimuli, and inwardly forming opinions based on the quick intake of what we're seeing. How exactly does it impact us, and how much?

Images and the impressions we take in on a daily basis no doubt impact us far more than we're willing to admit. Not only does media and culture effect how we feel about ourselves and the impression we give off to others, but it very likely impacts how we treat others based on how we perceive their outward appearance. It's a deeply ingrained, innate ability that most can't turn off.

We can use many popular celebrities as an example. Female actresses are far more often chosen based on looks over acting ability and talent. Society is far less likely to critique a youthful, inexperienced actress with far less ability to play her role, when compared to an older, more experienced actress with roles under their belt. Images are far more likely to draw us to praise good looking, young talent simply based on the fact that it is more desirable within our society. The same cannot be said about male actors and the roles and reviews they receive in relation to their age. Their own age is commonly overlooked, and they appear to be reviewed and employed based more on their acting ability and screen presence.

I believe the same can be said about gender and race within the United States political system. The pendulum swings in the opposite direction in regards to age. Older candidates and representatives are by and large viewed as more experienced and wise beyond their years to the aging population voting for them, regardless of whether their track records are positive. Similarly, in the past, women were viewed as the weaker of the genders. The older population in our country is more often going to err on the side of personally portraying women as less outgoing, forceful, and less likely to push for legislation that they stand behind. Men are seen as more dominant and overbearing, and more willing to push for their personal opinions to be heard. An african american women in congress is far less likely to be considered compared to an older, white male. I believe the amount of representation by these minorities contributes. Older, white males are a majority in politics and it's easier to identify and agree with the larger group. It's the path of least resistance. There seems to be a push to include more minority candidates within the political sphere and once it's more commonplace, I believe it will become more commonplace to have more split groups with varying opinions. It's easier to share opinions and viewpoints when you see someone similar to you, sharing similar thoughts.  

I feel it's almost impossible to escape these unconcious opinions we form. It's simply more natural to err on the side of what society feels is beautiful, acceptable, and easy to look at. Easier to err on the side of preconceived notions about age, appearance, and gender than to stop and think. As a whole, age and appearance has far more impact on how we judge performaces than I believe society is willing to admit. It's becoming less of an issue in today's society, but very slowly. It will exponentially shrink as an issue as long as we continue to push for equal representation of all races, ages, genders, and people.
