Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic?

    Some people in today's world say that our society is too materialistic.  For most people, the acquiring of money and possessions is a basic necessity for survival and for many, the pursuit of material things can give a certain purpose to their life.  So materialism becomes a basic fact of life as we, as physical beings, exist in a physical world.  
    So the question posed here deals with a subtle point.  Materialism is necessary because of the nature of the world we inhabit.  "Should our modern society be criticized for being materialistic?" does not get to the real issue.  Of course, individuals are free to criticize whatever they want, at least ideally, that is the case in our society.  The real question being asked here, or  I think should be asked, is rather "Does our modern society put too much emphasis on materialism and materialistic pursuits?"  
    If one were to follow through with that line of thinking, the deeper premise of the question posed  becomes apparent- does putting too much stress on materialistic pursuits come at cost and is that cost too high?
    In my opinion, it all boils down to individual choice.  Many have found a purpose in life beyond the mere pursuit of physical posssesions, realistically translated to acquiring money in our society, and use their time time on this planet for other purposes- humanitarian or artistic, or even self-indulgence, as thrill seeking or global travel- and use the pursuit of the material as a means to an end, beyond mere day to day physical survival.
    Materialism is a fact of life life in a physical world, but it does not have to be its sole purpose.  An individual must decide on his or her life path and adjust the level of material concern accordingly.  Society can only dictate so much- even though commercialism, which is rampant in our society,  has other ideas- i.e., fostering consumerism.  However, that is a matter for another essay.
   
