Materialism can be defined as a pre-occupation with material wealth and goods. In today's society, there are many who would argue that people are far too materialistic. I would have to agree with this sentiment: modern society is, in fact, far too materialistic. There is far too much emphasis placed in today's society on obtaining and demonstrating material wealth, and not enough focus on experiencing the world around us. 

Evidence of materialism is everywhere. Many people in today's society place far too much emphasis on status goods. While a purse is a utilitarian object, helpful for carrying around items, it is possible to purchase a good quality purse for a reasonable sum which will perform the necessary function. However, there are many women and men who often spend hundreds, even thousands, on handbags, and who carry multiple handbags to match various outfits simply to demonstrate their status. People also spend exorbitant amounts of cash on goods like sneakers, watches, and other clothing items, in order to demonstrate status. Instagram feeds are riddled with posts from merchants selling goods which are advertised as items which will surely make our lives better if we purchase them. We see ads all the time for creams that will perfect our skin, or the perfect jeans for our body types. And of course, it is understandable that a person might want to purchase clothing that enhances their appearance. That said, spending large sums on objects which convey wealth and status in order to make a person happy is simply not effective. People get bored with the items they purchase quickly, and often find themselves needing to purchase more in order to fill a void. Extreme consumption of luxury goods is also, frankly, troubling, especially when one considers the amount of people in this world who cannot afford to eat. Further, status goods often serve to make the less fortunate who cannot afford them feel "less than", which is never a good thing.

There is also much evidence to suggest that the acquisition of goods is not something that actually makes people happy. Rather, it is spending money on experiences, not material goods, that creates happiness. I have read several studies which suggest that experiential items contribute far more to individual happiness than material goods ever could. On a recent trip to New Orleans, I saw a t-shirt which displayed the sentiment that "travel is the only thing you buy which makes you richer." I completely agree with this idea, in fact so much that I bought the shirt. As someone who focuses on experiences over items, I can say with confidence that people are better off focusing on the utilitarian aspect of material goods and saving money there, and instead, spending their money on experiences which engender fond memories. Spending money on a meal in a restaurant with a friend is much more enriching than spending the same amount of money on a dress you might wear twice before you are bored of it. Taking a trip to another city is a much better use of cash than purchasing an expensive vacuum-powered hair dryer. It's also important to note that experiences which don't require any money at all, like hiking, or volunteering, truly enrich our lives. Spending a Saturday on a challenging hike gives a person a true appreciation and love of nature and the world. Volunteering helps a person to appreciate their own place in society, and to make real human connections with others. 

There are certainly counterarguments to this premise. It's true, individuals who are focused on material wealth do benefit society; after all the companies that produce the goods also have to hire workers to make them and to market them. Sales taxes benefit local governments. Individuals earn livings working in retail stores, as do landlords who own the buildings the stores are in. Suppliers also utilize transportation companies to ship goods. No doubt, materialism has its economic benefits. But I would argue that if people spent less on material items, they just might spend that money in other ways. Perhaps dining out, which provides money to restaurant owners and workers. Perhaps travelling, which helps hotel workers and airline employees. Or perhaps, the money spent on that outrageous purse might actually be donated to a charitable cause.

While materialism has its benefits, for the most part, modern society is far too materialistic. Goods which convey status do not bring happiness to those who purchase them, though they may make those who cannot afford them feel somewhat sub par. Yes, materialism helps the economy to a degree, but if people focused less on status goods they would still be likey to spend their money elsewhere. Modern society would be better served if we all focused less on acquiring possessions, and more on acquiring experiences.
