Materialism is a fact of life in modern first world countries and should not be criticized for those that wish to obtain material objects. We all work first and foremost to maintain our most basic needs: shelter, food, security, and cleanliness among other things. After those needs have been met, some people are fortunate enough to have excess funds and with those funds we get to choose what we want to do with them. To some that may mean saving for retirement to others that may mean buying a house or in the case of the prompt that may mean obtaining material possessions. Since we have free will, what we decide to do with our funds is a choice of our own and should not be judged by others. Whether material possessions make one person happy, but not another, should be of no concern to anyone other than the person choosing to spend their own money on whatever it is that pleases them. 

I will object to those obtaining material possessions above their means. With the advent of credit cards, it has given people the ability to purchase possessions that they could not buy today outright. Given the predatory nature of credit card companies, it can be easy to obtain multiple credit cards or even loans and cause some people to continue to purchase items to maintain a lifestyle they cannot foreseeably pay for with their own earned income. When materialism becomes addictive to chase a feeling of happiness or to parade a social presence to impress those around them, I cannot agrue for materialism in our society. Material desires should only be sought after first meeting our basic needs.

Another objection could be that continually acquiring material possessions does not truly serve any purpose and can be seen as greedy to monopolize possessions that are not available to other while they may suffer due to wealth inequity. Given that we work for the funds that we earn, I don't think it is fair to judge others and tell them what they should value or how their money should be spent. Again, I think it is up to ourselves to judge what is important to us and how we would like to spend or not spend our own money. As a society we should not be so focused on what everyone else is doing (with the exception of unlawful acts) and should look to ourselves to do what we consider is appropriate given our means.
