People can only be happy when that focus on themselves and in obtaining what they want in life, then and only then can they even think about other peoples happiness.  You have to be happy to make other people happy or even know what happyiness is.  As the saying goes happiness starts at home.
People are happy when they do what makes them happy.  The key point is that have to happy with themselves or there is nothing else going to happen.  People are never happy when they try and base their happiness off of other peoples happiness.  You will be unhappy and even miserable if you are not doing what you want and are not working towards goals that matter to you.  Going through life trying to be happy because those around you are is just a facade.  Its not real.  It is just a put on.  You have to be aiming at something for yourself to get happiness.  If you are not happy do you even know what happiness even is. It would be a great thing if you could do nothing and just be happy because other people are or because humanity in general has improved.
You can not focus on the improvements of humanity for you happiness either.  You are still in the same boat.  It all revolves around happiness, but you have to know what that is to even be able to feel it.  When we work towards a goal we have the ups and downs along the way, but when that goal is met we know then what happiness is.  Thats something that only you can truly give yourself.  Once you have made yourself happy then you are able to be happy based on other people and their happiness.  It is something everyone needs to experience for themselves.  We are our hardest critic, so when we make ourselves happy it is real and earned.  We are always looking down on ourselves.  Thinking that we are not good enough and that is one major reason that we have to be happy because of ourself.
So to be happy you must be working towards something  for you and it has to be something that will make you happy.  It has to be something that truly means something and be something that will when achieved make you happy.  If you try and be happy based off of something else or someone else you will never experience the joys of true happiness.  You have to do you then and only then can you even truly know what happiness even is.  Happiness is special and is something that everyone needs to try and feel atleast once in their life.  Its a wonderful and great feeling that can not be replace by anything.

