In modern society, materialism is virtually inescapable.  While one is made to believe that they must acquire more and more possessions, one is also made to feel guilty that they desire to acquire these things.  People in today's world are left bouncing between consumerism and guilt.  It is not fair to blame people for this state of affairs.

From the time a person is born, they are taught that it is a good thing to "get stuff."  The child's value and worth is determined by how many possesions they own.  Do they have the latest toy that is a "must-have"? When the child begins to grow up, this pattern of thinking which they have been trained to have continues to affect their life, to the point where materialism becomes their default way of being.  Into adulthood, the person's sole goals in life become how much money they earn at their job and "can I afford the latest toy/gadget/car/etc.?" The person was taught, since birth to be this way.  How, then, can we blame anyone for being materialistic?

People who don't give it enough thought like to criticize others for their spending habits and consumerism.  But the criticism does nothing to address the root cause of the matter and, is just ineffectual whining.  Meanwhile, many of those doing the criticizing don't see their own materialistic ways.  Also, some products which are written off by snobs as being unnecessary, are actually quite necessary in this modern age, such as certain technological devices which are needed for jobs, or automobiles, which many people absolutely need, in order to get to their place of work.

There has to be a middle ground, when it comes to materialism.  It is not helpful to anyone to simply criticize a person for acquiring possessions.  If someone wants to buy something, let them! It is no one else's business that the guy next door just bought a new flatscreen t.v.  It's his money; he can do what he wants with it.

Now, one argument, which has some merit, is that many products which are just frivilous, are manufactured in foreign countries, through slave labor or, through people who get paid a pittance of what they should be paid.  This has often been blamed on the consumer of the product, who, it is argued, should withhold from making such unnecessary purchases, when it is doing so much damage to the workers.  But, at what point do the owners of these businesses get the blame? The argument is that if the demand were not there, then the products would not need to be manufactured.  This is the same tiresome argument that has gone on for years, always laying blame at the foot of the consumer.  Why not turn this argument around on the business, itself? Why is the consumer always to blame? Why not blame the countries where these evil practices go on? If people just stopped buying the products, I guarantee you, the owners of these businesses would find some other shenanigans to get themselves into.  Blame the ones who are making all the money, not the consumer.

In conclusion, people in modern society are blamed way too much for materialism.  It is only natural for people to want to spend their hard-earned money on things they have dreamed of having and, there is no reason why they shouldn't.  Others need to mind their own business and let people live their lives the way they see fit.  Stop judging people who are simply exercising their rights as human beings.  If anyone needs to be held accountable for inhumane business practices, it is the owners of the businesses, who don't pay their workers fairly.  By the way, if these businesses ever actually started paying their workers fairly, what do you think the workers are going to do with that money? Spend it.
