Yes, modern society should be criticized for being so materialistic. Materialism is a habit that weighs you and your life down. It wastes resources and keeps other people from having enough. People in industrial countries need to work less, enjoy life more, and cut down on possessions.

If you have 200 pairs of shoes and don't wear them but once, that's a waste  when there are other people needing shoes for themselves and their children. People worked a lot of time to make those shoes and you bought them for expensive prices. The people who made those shoes didn't get paid very much, and didn't have enough money to keep their family supplied with what they needed. They worked so much that they didn't get to see their families and were too tired from working to enjoy being with them when they were not working. All people should be paid a decent wage without having to work overtime to have enough to pay the bills. They should be able to see their children have enough food to eat and clothing and shoes.

People say that you should be able to buy what you want with your money. True, but if you're making your money off the sweat of others, is that morally right? I say no. People with billions of dollars can buy what they want, but they can never spend all of that money, and the people who make that possible are not getting what they need to survive. The less you have, the less your possessions own you. If you have what you need and some of the things that you enjoy, that is good. What you have doesn't own you.

There's enough in this world for everyone to have enough. Greed prevents that from happening. Take a look and see what you can give up: money, possessions, and anything you have too much of. Materialism means that it will be easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for you to get to heaven. Love counts, not things. Spending time with your loved ones is a blessing. If you are always thinking you need more and if you're working all the time so you can have more, then look. If your possessions are more important than people, that will be an anchor tied to your soul. It could be like wearing cement boots instead of pretty shoes.

We are literally destroying our world with materialism, from Putin down to the most important person. It really isn't so much about money as it is about love of things instead of the living.
