I have a question, what makes the sports greats great and the billionaires beyond wealthy? Was it the long lasting effects and relationships with their teammates/investors or was it the desire to beat their opponent and be identified for their legacies. I would say that the drive to beat the opponent is what causes individuals to achieve their definiton of success. I will explain why competition reigns supreme compared to cooperation.

Michael Jordan was one of the greatest players to ever play in the NBA, his drive and love for the game was unmatched and it was easy to tell that he was a "student of the game." All of his traits, talents and skills were not the key factors in his legacy, it was the drive to destroy his opponent in fron tof him. The NBA had not seen a competitor as such and it didnt even end on the basketball court, he took competition seriously in every facet so much so he even picked up a gambling habit. The will to remain the best and destroy his opponents while at the top is what made him our GOAT. Now, I know that some would say that Jordan wouldn't have won without his teammates and yes that might be true but the Chicago Bulls wouldn't have six championships without his presence and competitive will. His drive to win is what gave the Bulls that edge to be a great dynasty. Another example would have to be the late great Kobe Bryant (may he rest in peace along with the other fallen passngers on that helicopter). He had the same tenacity as Michael Jordan, it was as if he studied from MJ and took everything but added his own pizzazz to it. He was also the lead man for a dynasty in the Los Angeles Lakers, it was "Mamba Mentality" that willed the Lakers to win those five championships. He was known for trash talking to his opponents, attmepting to get into their heads and take them off of their game. While this is happening, Kobe is thriving off of the fact that he won the mental battle and the physical part of playing basketball was second nature to him. It was usually always a win-win for him and his teammates. These greats could not achieve their level of success wihout the drive to destroy their competition. I also beileve that it just doesn't extend to athetic greats, I believe the most brillaint minds in whatever field thrived off the fact that they were the first to invent something, discover something, etc. 

It can be very complexed as cooperation can achieve success but it doesn't drive you to attain success the way competition does. This is coming from a former college athlete (so I could be bias) but when I visualized me "locking down" recievers in the game, it made me train harder, run longer and lift more as that is what I needed to achieve my success on the field. I also atrived to be the best defensive back on my team so that caused me to have this positive rivalry with my teammates, it drove us to get better everyday in almost every fact. 
