In today's society, the image we portray plays a huge role in how we are perceived. All to often I would hear the phrase "you have to look the part". However, there are moments where I strongly believe that looks can be deceiving therefore, I agree that images and impressions have too much effect on people in this current era.

The way advertisements are used to persuade individuals to look favorably on a product is very fascinating. It appears that quite a bit of psychological research has been dedicated to this field. Instead of trying to use words to persuade, we are now focused on the use of images to entice. We now use our own influences and experiences to entice us to do, and be, like the people we see in these advertisement. Brilliant! Except that these advertisements are edited for things and situations to appear perfect. The reality is that perfection that we see is not the "real-world" reality but instead a method used to entice our brains to purchase or partake of something that in reality may not be attainable.

Public figures spend exorbitant amounts of time and money on clothes, makeup, and other effects to ensure that they have the "perfect" image before going into the public eyes. How many times have we mindlessly given more attention to the person that appears more polished, better dressed, or overall more beautiful? The bias is built in before a single word escapes their mouth. The facts or arguments that emerge appear to have lesser impact than the actual appearance. This is can be deterimental in certain situations because when we think of people in power, we want smart, competent, reliable individuals. Coming across as "beautiful and polished" should be secondary, maybe even considered a bonus and not a necessity. 

There are instances where appearance speaks volumes. For example, those that take the time to groom themselves appropriately before a job interview show that they consider what they are about to do to be of importance. They start off in a good light and then, providing that they are well-prepared in other areas of the interview, they may land the job. However, what if this is a person who cannot afford the best clothes or somehow managed to end up in unfortunate circumstances where they cannot even afford to have a clean or pressed shirt, yet they are well, or maybe more qualified that the well-dressed individual? What happens then? Do they get a fair chance? One would hope that in the case of a job interview, this would be the situation. Unfortunately, the reality may be otherwise.

Good things do not always come in nicely-wrapped packages and, as the cliche goes "you cannot always judge a book by its cover".  We as a society need to remember to look deeper. Look beyond the surface to see whether there is a gem that is waiting to emerge out of the roughness instead of looking for the gem first only to notice that when the inside is revealed, it is really only a pile of worthless dust coated in materials to make it appear luxurious.
