What makes you happy?  Is that a question that you have found yourself asking over and over?  This is a debate which has gone on forever in the hearts of people since the very begining of time.  Is it caring for others or taking care of yourself first?  These for sure are tricky questions but ones that I believe can be answered.

When we weigh all of the options together I believe we will find that helping others is what makes us happy as a whole.  There are many reasons for this the first being that when you are kind others will be kind to you.  This makes for a much happier and easier life when you know that you can rely on those around you always.  It may also go without saying but also being unselfish in itself will make for happier people because they know that no matter what their legacy will go on from the stories passed down of how they made others happy it is a way at imortallity.  Another easy way to look at it is that if others around us are happy it sure is hard to feel down.  Almost every single guide to life or religion has taught us this principal and the reason for this is universally wise men knew that happiness for all was better than happiness for one.

Of course there are counter arguments to what I have brought forward.  People will say that if you make yourself happy first you will never be let down.  This act is a fallacy though as if we follow by these rules we will find that others will be more willing to take us down because they are not happy.  Another argument would be that happiness starts with yourself.  I would also counter with the fact that this is untrue think of how many times someone has been joyful to themselves but managed to bring others down and this became their undoing.  Many of classic tales have warned against this behavior and there are reasons these tales exist.  Some will say instant gratification recived by making yourself happy is the best kind.  This fails because while instant happiness may feel good in short burst it will only last for short periods of time compared to making others happy which last much longer.  Think of a spoiled child with a new toy yes at first they are excited but quickly lose interest realizing soon they can have another toy this isn't remaing happy.

In conclusion while mankind has struggled since the dawn of time to find the true meaning of happiness it has been staring them in the face the entire time.  It is obviously better to make others happy first as it has more benifits for all parties that are involved.  Making yourself happy first starts with happiness but will only allow for so much with no room to grow into more joy.  Remember the facts presented and if you follow them a happier life can be had by you and those around you.
