In this essay I am going to focus on whether it is a good thing to be in a team or to work alone in a competition. While some people would rather work alone there are some people that would rather be a part of a team while in a competition. If a person chooses to be on a team they may be able to coordinate together enough to reach the targeted goal or if the person chooses to work alone and focus on only themselve to reach the same targeted goal against another individual. There is a natural instinct inside of everyone to want to win. But there is also something inside of the same people as to if they want to win alone or on a team. Lets check these thoughts out.  

For me my personal preference would be to be on a team that is working together instead of working against each other. I take this stance because I feel that when people compete against each other they are prone to make mistakes. Like if we are to complete a riddle. What one person may not know to solve the riddle another person on the team may know the answer seamlessly.  If we all work together there will be fewer mistakes. Also take for instance at a school field day. When the teams are working together to complete the tasks at hand more of them will cross the finish line. When they compete against each other the competitors are so worried about what the other person is doing that they often forget what they are supposed to be doing themselves. For instance if they are to run up to a table with a small task such as fill the cup with water not using your hands. The competitors will be so focused on howfar ahead the other is that they will continue to spill their own water making it harder to complete the goal. The harder it gets for them the more frustrated they become resulting in them becoming more aware of the other person and their progress in the task. If there is a team the team members can focus on what each other is doing and not what the other team is doing resulting in them reaching their goals. 

While on one hand my arguement of being on a team can be for some people others prefer to work by themselves and compete with others. They feel that if they can focus on one thing and not be focused on more than one person they can acheive their goal faster and easier. Kind of like when solving a puzzle. One person focusing on the puzzle can really focus. But if there are three people working on the same puzzle they can tend to clash and with everyone grabbing at pieces and talking over each other it can get more confusing and hectic causing the team to make more mistakes taking longer to get to the finished project. Some may argue that they can focus more on the task if the only person's progress they have to worry about is their own. Not having to worry about if a team mate is acheiving the goal would be ideal for this type of person. Competitiveness in the work place is something I find interesting. If we are all focused on the same goal it should be interesting to compete instead of team up. Workplace competiveness could be used to get your workers to be more effective and make them want to come to work and enjoy being there. 

So I ask you the reader if you prefer to be in a competetion whether in life or a workplace would you want to be alone or on a team? Take my views into consideration and make a decision for yourself. I think about all aspects of the situation and think which would be better for each situation. You have to understand that every situation will be different. One situation may benefit from you being a part of a team while another may work more efficient if you are competing alone. The choice is ultimately yours. Which will you choose for your situation?
