"Many hands make light work"

How do we achieve success? Some insist that competition is the best way to get ahead. Others insist that cooperation is the best way to get ahead. Are either of these ideas entirely correct or is the answer more of a dialectic - something in the middle?

Studies have shown that intense rivalry at work might drive people to avoid failure, but studies have also shown that cooperation is more likely to produce lasting accomplishments? Is one option better than the other?

The answer is yes. One can achieve far more success by cooperating with others vs creating an enviroment of stress.

We live in an extremely complex world, filled with people who come in all shapes and sizes, with differing abilities, sensabilities, strengths and weakenesses. Different people all work differently and it's one of the things that makes us so unique as a species. We evolved to cooperate with each other. Humanity wouldn't even be where we are today if we weren't a social, cooperative species.

Since the homo genus evolved, all of the discovered branches of extinct hominids all bear evidence that their society was cooperative and communal. Humans have been helping each other for longer than homo sapiens has existed. The idea that if you don't get something in return helping others doesn't serve you is extremely new, and this is suggested by evidence like a 500,000 year old child's skull, that was found in Atapuerca, Spain. The skull bears a deformity. You would think that in times when basic survival was much harder than in modern times, that a child with a severe deformity would be left to die, right?

Testing of the skull showed that the deformity was both congenial (was there at birth) and that the child was between 5-8 years old, which means that the parents cared for a severely disabled child, because it was what they did. The disabled child provided no resources, but was cared for and loved.

Our greatest achievements have all been cooperative. The pyramids weren't built by one person, all of our cities, scientic advancements, creative works have all been collaborations. We are hard wired to help each other, humans are hard wired to cooperate with each other and one of the only reasons why we don't today is because capitalism has created an enviroment where you don't actually need to rely on each other for survival and looking at the world around us, I don't think that's going very well. Just saying.

Tangent on ancient hominids aside, this hardwired cooperation is why it will always be more advantagous to achieve success by cooperation. We have literally evolved to be able to work together. 

While some competion is advantagous because it can be encouraging and some people do thrive under competiton, to focus entirely on competition over cooperation means that people who, for example, have dyslexia, are just out of the running and will fall behind. Moving from competiton based employment to cooperation based employment will go a very long way in moving the dial from how cruel society is to one that is not...well, creating situations like the one we find ourselves in today.

Cooperation is essential for humanity to function. It's sustanable in a way that competition is not, when you compete, things get lost. Ideas get dropped because the point is to get to the goal, not to build something that can last. Even if you, personally, win, is it really a win if you then have to watch those who didn't win lose out?

Moving towards cooperation and finding a balance where competion is not overwhelming and the advantages of competion, such as the drive to avoid failure, can be used to further cooperation is essential for kindness and essential for humanity to be able to fix the deep seated issues that we deal with. 

We have the ability to have a better world. We just have to learn how to work with each other again.
