     Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?? Yes, of course they do!! People today are very visual. With technology how it is, people are always on their phone or computer. Younger people especially, though older people do the same thing, will 'follow' the crowd or what people are following online. They will go with whats flashy or promoted on the sites they visit or use. In acutual store, online, commercials.... packaging is everything. Again, it is a visual world. An attractive package will attract people regardless of the product.
     This is not only true for products but for people also. A celebrity or politician know  the power of an initial impression, of saying what the people want to hear or see. A politician will look at the polls and work that...say what they need to win, regardless if they believe it or if its even true. A celebrity will do a similir thing, give the people what they want. Both in actions, words, songs, dance. It doesn't matter if it is true, its a give the people what they want world... its also a make the people believe they want it world. Advertising, celebrities, politicians, anyone in charge.... they will try for shock and flash to make people think their way or go to their side or like whatever it is they are selling. People do not want to  be made to feel bad or to be left out. Therfore, lots of people will like something or follow so they can be part of the crowd or not risk being ostrasized.  Medical commercials even, show pretty people have fun, while quickly stating all the serious and sometimes deadly side effects....make it look good when sometimes the 'cure' is worse than the disease. 
     I am old enough to remember the days when people thought for themselves, they spoke up when they didn't agree. Two people could discuss opposite sides...debate... without anyone getting emotional or calling names. It was ok, in fact encouraged to debate. Debating was a way to work out and discuss issues, to make people understand a different side. There was no 'herd mentality'.  The flash, colors, what was the new 'hot' thing didn't really matter. There was a time when people thought for themselves. They knew right from wrong, they knew what they liked, they didn't care if others agreed or what was the 'in' thing.
     Appearances are just that. Appearances are supposed to be an initial impression, not fact. They get your attention and you then 'dig in to find the meat'.  After the appearance catched your attention, I believe that is when a person should make a decision to buy a product based on value, to believe the TV Newscaster...are they factual or opinionated, a celebrity... are they a real human who cares or are they all flash, a polititian... are they lying to get your vote or do they truely believe what they are saying. The world today has to look beyound appearances.... initial appearances are usually deceiving. They are not fact, or the real person, or what the issue is about. 
     First impressions follow the same line of thought as appearances.....they are usually meant to attract, not tell the truth about a person or a product. My husband is a person example of first impressions. The first time I met him I hated him!!! Thought he was the most immature person I had ever met. Six months later we bumped into eachother again, became friends, started dating and today we have been together for 31 years. If I had followed my first impression I would never had married him and had 2 beautiful children. Sometimes appearances/images.first impressions are the real thing; but more often than not, they arn't......    People today need to relearn to think for themselves and 'screw' what others think or what they are 'expected' to think or feel.


