Competition is a motivational factor that will give anyone the drive they need to reach their goals. It can even be a way to keep things interesting enough to keep one working towards their goal. But does competing really help achieve the necessary success one may desire to attain? Or would things work out better by cooperating with those who would be considered the nemisis? 

I'd stand a chance to say that cooperation would get you a lot farther than competing ever would. If you're too busy focusing on beating out someone else it'd be quite hard to focus on the end goal. By working alongside others, you'd not only be helping yourself, but helping them reach their goals as well. That way everyone is able to get a piece of the pie. By cooperating you'd not only reach your goal of being successful quicker, it'd also be easier to reach that goal.

As far as the ease of things, having more people working together means having more brain power working together to come up with ideas on how to attain success. For example, if two people were stuck in a ditch wouldn't it be much easier for them to work together to get out of the ditch instead of working against one another? If they were to have their backs turned on one another, both of them digging and piling up dirt between the two of them they'd both be doing nothing but digging themselves into a deeper hole, which defeats the purpose of them reaching their goal to get out of the rut they are in. If they are going to dig their way out it'd be much easier for them to work together and dig and at least find a way to pile the dirt up in a way that they'd be able to both make it tall enough to both climb out.

I do understand that a little competition can be healthy. It can even keep one driven, as it'd be a motivation to keep working toward success. Competition can also give one a boost of confidence. But that confidence won't always be there. Should you get knocked down, competing would only serve to cause doubt about your abilities At least by working together with others, you'd can motivate one another. Working with others, you'd also have sources and connections you can rely on, whether they are lifetime connections or even just short term. As the saying goes, sometimes it's not about what you know, but who you know. Sometimes knowing certain people can help you reach levels of success you may not have been able to had you not had those connections.  

All in all, cooperation helps better achieve success, as it builds strong connections and it also makes reaching success quicker and easier to achieve.
