As people's socioeconomic statuses are improving with the modernization and globalization of our economy and culture, we have seen an increase in commercialization and materialism. Think of the numerous instances people are waiting in line - in person or online - just to be a special pair of Adidas sneakers because they are designed by the company of one of the most prolific artists of our generation - Kanye West, himself a billionaire. While there seems to be a drive with having the best and the next best, it posits creating a path for increased cost of consumer goods and affecting our society and environment. As materialism drives us to seek out the best and newest goods and services, it also creates fallout which must also be acknowledged. Criticizing modern society for their fascination with materialism would be ill-advised, as it is criticizing the normal means of social and economic evolution. However, we can always be considering the side effects of materialism and mitigating those to be more socially conscious. 

While the iPhone was not the first smartphone in production, it created a market for a device which allowed the user functionality, creativity, and leisure all in one convenient package with effective branding and marketing. Now more than a decade later and the iPhone is more advanced and powerful than laptops or even certain desktops. The iPhone's use as a device for communication, lesiure, and business/income has been unparalleled and the iPhone alone has created a multi-billion dollar industry for apps and companies which primarily do their business on mobile apps. Furthermore, the revenue generated by new and easy upgrades has also been an extremely lucrative and expensive process for the company and consumers, respectively. This has generated income for people and also driven up the cost/standards of living. As such, people have wanted to and been able to buy and consume more as a means of celebrating their success - and what better way than the latest, largest, most technologically advanced iPhone? Materialism is only a natural side effect of the advancement of technology and convenience feeding a culture ready for the next best thing. 

With materialism, the exploitation of labor and resources has gone up as well as inflation associated with feeding that demand. Often, we come to learn of regions and people both domestically and abroad suffering from some of the side effects of production to feed the demand for materialism.  The economic impact of producing cellular phones is vast with the harvesting of rare metals, environmental impacts of mining and production, pollution, and waste. The increased cost of goods and the effects of inflation have also been deletrious on widening wealth gaps, but also psychologically affecting people to feel the need to have the next newest and best good or service. Apple has been one of the better companies in minimizing their ecological impact with recyclable packaging and use of recycled materials, in addition to their phone buyback program which allows them to recycle phones or refurbish them. further more, their products tend to be energy efficient with longer battery lives. Their employees are paired fairly throughout most markets and they have made strides in pricing devices for emerging markets and a multitude of income levels/social statuses. While their subscription services have certainly not considered that, these are rarely necessary services for one who simply just wants the flashiest, most modern assortment of devices their buying power can acquire. 

Materialism brings us many benefits in newer, better, faster, and stronger goods and services. However, it is important to consider that advancements in certain facets/areas are far higher than in others and that we are responsible for recognizing the shortcomings. To consider the shortcomings is essential, because the goal should be to elevate people forward as a collective. Sweeping criticism does not teach us anything new or beneficial, but does allow us to think beyond the immediate sheen and shimmer of materialism's plethora of good and services. While we cannot entirely account for all disparities, it is important to think of ways to address these as often as possible to make steady changes and growth, approaching it from the perspective of socially conscious materialism. 

Sent from iPhone.
