As I started my maternity leave four years ago, I couldn't do much (being 36 weeks pregnant and larger than a balloon) I found I had a lot of free-time to scroll social media.  Back then, influencers might try to sell you one product a month and there weren't many ads on Instagram, spamming you to buy buy buy!  I had money to spend back then, and once in a while I would see an ad for a $40 baby swaddle and buy it!  Not because I needed it---I had several swaddles I got for free---but because I had nothing better to do and thought it would make me feel good.  Four years later, I am 38 weeks pregnant again with my second child and with less disposable income due to inflation, high gas prices, when I look at this boujee swaddle, I see a barf stain and $40 that I could have in savings or stocks.  

Yes, buying things for the hell of "treating yourself" can maybe make you happy in the moment.  But in the long run, material things do very little to give your life meaning or make you happy.  We live in a material world and even though we are constantly being bombarded by social media influencers and ads to be material boys and girls, western civilization needs to realize that this does very little to improve society and in fact makes people less engaged in the things that will truely bring them happiness.

Fortunately, for me, my $40 shopping splurges are few and far between.  I got almost everything for my new babies as hand-me-downs and I was not concerned with keeping up with the Joneses because my husband and I had long term financial goals of owning property.  I would look at my friends on Instagram who buy their kids brand new Nike Jordans and matching tracksuits worth over $100.  And while it is charming and adorable, my friends live in a 600 sq ft apartment while I own two houses at the age of 33!  Tell me, who is happier?  If I spent all my energy on online shopping for my children, maybe I'd have gorgeous trendy pictures of my daughter but no house for her to call home.

Some say, "If it puts a smile on your face, why not buy it?"  But I say what does it do to make your life better?  How long does it make you smile for?  An item doesn't make you physically healthier and it does not make you more financially stable.  It does virtually nothing to improve your life.  Others may say, "Well I'm just trying to impress others or attract attention from the opposite sex."  But why would you care to attract those types of people.  Someone that gets impressed by material things is shallow.  Instead, spending money on cultivating a sense of humor from an improv class or buying a gym membership will do hoards more for you if you want to attract a hottie with a brain.   It is possible someone might see you have a Rolex and give you their number, but when they realize you spend all your money on stuff and don't own a house, or car, or plane, they won't give a damn about getting to know you!

So next time you find yourself scrolling through social media mindlessly, take a step back and remind yourself that what they are trying to sell you is a distraction.  Things will do very little to improve your life.  Society is in the wrong for being so materialistic and instead should be selling education, healthy lifestyle, and financial stability!
