Success is something that many want but few people can completely agree on what it is or how best to achieve it. Different cultures also have differing views of success as well. The more American view of success doesn't always have cooperation as part of its core whereas other parts of the world may see success more part of working together.While I am from an American background and grew up on stories of 'pulling oneself up by the bootstraps' or 'striking out on one's own,'  - each in its own way competition for success - I believe success is best achieved through cooperation.

I recall the movie Patton where the titular character says something along the lines of "Americans don't like being second best" and goes on to discuss sports and games analogies where someone wins and thus someone loses. While I can see where the character is coming from with the idea that competition is natural and the only way to succeed, I don't fully agree. Yes, there are times one's success depends on someone else losing, but success is not that easy a definition. Nor do the best types of success happen that way. Too often though, it seems people can possess this slighter view of success - that it has to come at someone else's expense.

Large, complex buildings cannot be put up without many people working together. The International Space Station is a result of countries working together to achieve success that individual countries could not have easily afforded on their own. Even in the definition used in Patton, success is often a team effort. A football team doesn't win solely because of one person, nor does a relay team or rowing team. Even when there's competition, some sort of cooperation is needed.

As with the Internation Space Station, another important success was achieved by people working together. It was not one scientist who came up with the Covid vaccine. It was multiple scientists working together to achieve this. Yes, they may have been competing to get to the cure fastest, but  many worked together, sharing ideas and results in order to achieve success. Cooperation made the success in this case.

Success is important to so many of us, but working together for a goal is more apt to produce it then working at cross purposes. Cooperation brings us to more lasting success then competing or ruining someone else's chances ever can.
