There are two kinds of people in the world: Those who are self-sufficient and driven to their own success, even at the expense of violating their neighbor's happiness or comfort, and those who lean on others and aid them in their own accomplishments. At face-value, it may seem that both are capable of experiencing equal amounts of happiness, considering that we see both in successful positions of leadership and endeavors. Whichever way an individual is driven, they will be most happy when they discover a balance between the two.
Logically, it stands to reason that in order for one to even be able to consider the happiness of another person, they understand what happiness means. Generally speaking, an individual is usually happy when they enjoy certain levels of physical, mental, social, and emotional comforts. We discover these needs in ourselves and we are able to observe these needs in those around us, even from infancy: a baby cries when they're cold, confused, alone, or scared. An adult cries during pain, depression, loneliness, and a wide variety of emotion. If we are able to understand what makes us happy on an individual level and consistently pursue it, it will make it easier for us to actively pursue the best interests of another. 
One might ask what the point would be of pursuing another's happiness if we are able to achieve our own happiness first. What does it merit to use our precious time in our busy societies to help others feel happiness in their physical, mental, social, and emotional realms of life? 
Perhaps it would be best if we were to think of happiness like a circle or a sphere. Let's revisit the previous idea of infancy: a mother actively seeks to comfort her child and to make her child happy. She addresses her baby's bodily needs, she provides a mentally stable environment, she gives her child constant companionship, and she nourishes the infant during distress or provokes positive feeling. While the mother is working diligently to create this happiness in her offspring, the child, without even so much as intentionally doing so, is able to return a level of happiness to his mother: the mother is not alone, the mother is keeping her mind busy, the mother gains inherent satisfaction from her relationship with her child, creating a circular relationship of happiness. 
We see this idea of give-and-take all over the world in several avenues of relationships. In marriage, a husband and wife are constantly giving and taking the best (and the worst) of one another, but in successful and loyal marriages, both spouses report high levels of happiness and satisfaction. In working environments, colleagues drive a business or company to success by building one another up and establishing a foundational team, where everyone pitches in together and ultimately provides for one another's happiness. Among simple friendships, the best and most contented friend, will be the one who gives physical touch, mental stimulation, social companionship, and emotional comfort and is able to expect all of these gifts in return. 
While it seems to be a tricky concept on the surface, one can conclude just by unbiased observation of humankind and human relationships, that one is happiest not only when they focus on their own personal success and happiness, but also when they pursue the happiness of those around them. The world rotates day by day on its axis, and humanity's axis is the rotating nature of humankind to give and to take. 

