One goals that is shared among people from all races, nationalities, and religious backgrounds is happiness.  It is fair to say that nearly everyoen wants to be happy in their life, even if the definitions of happiness differs from person to person.  But, how does one become happy?  Should they focus on their own achievements, or should they look to those around them and focus their attention on them in order to achieve happiness?  While there are people who believe in both ideas, I believe that focusing on your own goals is the best method to find happiness in your life.
The best way to be happy is to accomplish your goal and dreams.  We all feel excitement when we accomplish something we set our minds to. If you set a goal for yourself and achieve it, that endorphin rush will leave you feeling happy, and motivate you to keep creating goals to achieve.  This feedback loop will result in you becoming happier and happier as you continue to achieve things in your life.
Focusing on your own desires is also important to happiness, because only you are going to understand the best way to make yourself happy.  Everyone definess success and happiness differently, so a big part in the search for happiness is self-reflection to determine what it is that will actually make you happy.  Until you know what it means for you to be happy it will be quite difficult to achieve true, long-lasting happiness.
While focusing on others can also make you happy, there are some significant issues with this strategy.  Firstly, sometimes things are just out  of your control.  You want to help others, but they aren't willing or able to accept your help.  This can lead to discouragement on your part, which can cause your happiness to suffer.  Some problems are just to big for one person to solve.  Personally, I kow I would be very happy if we achieved world piece, but that is not a problem I can reasonably solve on my own.  If I focus all my attention on this, I will feel as I have failed, and will not be happy.
Some might argue that focusing on your own happiness is selfish, and to that I say there is nothing inherently wrong with being selfish sometimes.  Being successful in your life, however you define that, is nothing to be ashamed of, and everyone should be able to focus on self-actuallization without being treated like they are a bad person for wanting to achieve happiness.  
 Happiness is a life-long goal.  All of us will go through times where we are happy, and other times where we struggle to find our happiness.  It si a prime motivator in our lifes, and should be focused on, as an unhappy life, is not a life anyone desires.  To that end, focus on your own goals to find your happiness, and be happy you can do so.
