COOPERATION IS COMPETITION, and COMPETITION INVOLVES COOPERATION !!!!

....WHY? .... because cannot be competitive without having first learned from others.  Learning will always, always involve cooperation !  Learning does not take place in some vacuum, it involves being attentive and submissive to a leader and / or teacher.  After one masters the skills required, they can then branch out on their own with great confidence, and try to out-do their co-workers.  

Which approach works best to guarantee success truly depends on each individual.  While some people thrive more on always wanting to be at ODDS with others, and outdo others, I think there are just far more people who would rather work together, to bring out the best in one another, and to collectively generate faster and more superior results !!! When you have too many people in competition with you, it tends to make a person feel soured and discouraged, especially if they are the ones continually losing.  It would tend to thwart another individual's best efforts, if they felt discouraged and intimidated all the time by others who were far too competitive.  I myself would rather just give up and look elsewhere for another job !!! When you are working in a discouraging situation, someone should be in-charge; your superior should place a limit on how many submissions a person could make AFTER they have won too many times.  A good work-superior should encourage EQUAL participation amongst all team members !!! After all, you were hired in the first place because a company or individual, RECOGNIZED your true potential, and felt you truly had something to offer.  WHY would you even want to start or submit a task, if you were thwarted from producing your best work ?  If it took you perhaps a little more time to finalize your theory or submission, some slow-pots produce "tastier" results than some dumb ultra-fast cooks;  YOU have something to offer, and should not be allowed to suffer because you take more time to be careful and check your accuracy, before you turn in your submission.

I personally have found it far more beneficial, and enjoyable, to work in a group environment where consistent TEAMWORK is encouraged !  When you can be more free to be friends with one another instead of fierce competitors, it will cause you to relax; when you are more relaxed, your brain works so much more efficiently to produce theories and solutions that you have TIME to examine FROM VARIOUS ANGLES !!! The more varied the feedback, the better.  The more angles explored and covered in a situation, the more likelihood there is that you will have FORESEEN all any ANY possible barriers to success; you will have covered far more, actually, than your competition !!!!! You will be PRE-PREPARED to deal effectively with setbacks than your competition is !!! 

For me, by far, "slow-and-steady" works more cohesively and effectively, when you partner with others around you, rather than just going for some overly-ambitious one-sided fast result from the same person all the time !

HOWEVER, there ARE groups and companies that prefer to have ONLY competition rule amongst their group members.  There ARE companies who feel using such a competitive approach is the one and ONLY way to "weed-out" their top-performers from the rest; use competition as a FINAL JUDGE to truly separate the ones who have the "most" to offer, from the weaker persons.  Since this approach will also save them money in the long run, they feel it is far better to go with a competitive approach ALONE.  This is BECAUSE it allows them to develop an idea or a product FASTER, get it out on the market FASTER, and thus, MAKE FAR MORE MONEY this way, rather than taking any additional time to finalize and produce their results.  THIS is the argument you can believe that is "FOR" competitiveness ALONE !

Yet, with THAT being SAID, in my own personal experience at work, when we have worked together in groups to brainstorm and develop an idea-package, like I said previously, it has caused us to be MORE prepared for any setbacks;  Those companies that are in a great great RUSH to produce results FASTER -- are the ones that are NOT PREPARED for unexpected and UNWANTED consequences of their product being misused; their products often have unforeseen PROBLEMS develop;  people develop rashes, or even have an injury from new products that have NOT been thoroughly tested and examined !!!!! So you see, in the long-run, "HASTE MAKES WASTE."  There are LAWSUITS against companies that made products which have caused harm and problems to their customers !!!!! Who WANTS to be forced to go through the process of PRODUCT RECALLS ???? WHO wants to have to shoulder the embarrassment resulting from their company FAILING like that ????? No one wants their business to be shut down, or even develop a bad reputation, because in the long run, even though they might have made MUCH more money starting out, a lack of cooperation amongst their developers came back to "BITE" them....... It backfired !!! They actually ended up destroying themselves in the process, because they were competitive, instead of thorough and balanced.  Also such competitiveness has found to not be healthy.  People will end up burning out faster; employees will quit;  companies LOSE money over high employee turnover !

Studies have been done to show that nations like CHINA are actually more efficient and prosperous in marketing their items and making profits, than more competitive nations like the United States !! The cooperation amongst their citizens has proven to work better; they consistently produce far more profits and business !  
