Materialism describes a value system that prefers physical items over non physical items. A materialistic person or society measures its worth, at least in part, on a quantifiable measurement of possessions. Modern western society is generally described as a materialistic society. Some would argue that a materialistic society is a natural outcome of capitalism and should not be criticised. However, there are multiple reasons why a materialistic society is detrimental to the health of the individuals in the society and the environment they live in.

A materialistic society, unlike a spiritual society, inherently values items that are scarce or difficult to obtain. This inevitably leads to a disparity in "wealth" and casts aside individuals who are less able to aquire possessions. The competitive atmosphere likely aggravates biases that limit access and support for groups deemed less fortunate. A strict matter based system does not provide an alternative path to "wealth" and should absolutely be criticized for the way it marginalizes and abandons the less fortunate. A spiritual society offers that alternative path by redefining "wealth" in a way that is attainable for each individual. A spiritual person finds value in understanding themselves, their environment, and their peers. Materialism has flaws and other value systems may offer more sustainable methods of defining wealth.  

The environmental impacts of materialism are painfuly easy to see now. Buying the newest iphone each year has an environmental cost in the form of giant craters in the earth. The scale and intensity of materialism in western society has turned into a form of brinkmanship with mother nature. How long can you buy the new iphone before mother nature burns, drowns, blows away, or exhausts your ability to make more? 

A proponent of materialism might argue that it encourages growth in knowledge. Materialism certainly fosters a need for more knowledge in the pursuit of creating more material possessions. But this is a limited perspective that does not value other forms of knowledge. For example, emotional intelligence, valuable to anyone who is not a celebate monk, is not valued in a purely materialistic society. Posessive relationships notwithstanding. A materialistic society should certainly be criticized for its limited view on what represents valuable knowledge.

Materialism wastes resources, inherently leads to unequal distribution of wealth, and is biased towards certain educational pursuits over others. Materialism, if unchecked, can run rampant and become a destructive force. Check out the history of Easter Island for a cautionary tale. Alternative value systems offer better approaches to some of the flaws in materialism. 


