    People in the modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Everything in society is heavily based on materials even down to the smallest of humans, babies. First, lets define materials, this is a word that means building block. Materials are a small as the corn, wheat, beans, etc that a typical person can find growing in their own back yards. We are going to explore the building blocks that our society heavily relies on and also how the heavy use of materials shows the progress through the ages. 
    Materialism, it starts as young as within the first ten minutes that a human baby is born. There are scissors involved to cut umblical cords, then the babies are immediately placed on scales in order to weigh them, next they usually have a hat placed on their heads and diaper placed on their butts. All of these materials are found originally from the earth. People will excavate caves in order to find the different metals and ore in order to melt them down and mold them into scissors. The hats and the diapers that are placed on the babies are made from materials that are grown right from the very soil that the earth is making. Hats are made from cotton and diapers have different plant based aspects in order to make the absorbent parts of them. Growing these different products and excavating helps our earth out in the long run. Once the plants are mature enough, they are able to continue their cycles that remove the CO2 from our environment and give us fresh oxygen to consume. 
    There are lot of people in the world that use the common phrase "money can't buy you happiness," and that is usually the primary form of critique that is thrown around at people. Money absolutely can buy happiness, for instance I am happy when I have shelter, food, water and clothes. I, like most people enjoy going out and doing things that span from walking to extravant vacations. Materialism is not just materialism it is a major sign of progress for human kind. There are cave drawings that show us that early people used handmade loin clothes and made spears out of rocks and twings/ twine. Those people also only had shelter that consisted of those same materials and if they were lucky they would find a cave that was a bit sturdier. We have all of the samethings, but as a modern society are just showing our advanced thinking skills to show how we can put core materials to good use. People in the modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic, they in fact should be praised for putting all of the available resources to good use as the building blocks they are to our modern society and praised for the progress that has been made through the years. 
