Is it right or wrong to be materialistic? Should a materialistic person be criticized? Do we consume more than we should, in today's society?  We are influenced through different marketing strategies to buy, sometimes impulsively. Does buying more than we need actually make us feel better? 

In this life, we have choices. We are all individuals and do what is pleasing to us. I believe that a person who is extremely materialistic is hurting. They are trying to replace something that is lacking in their lives. That lack is controlled by being able to buy whatever they want with no limits. They're looking for freedom and happiness. 

Someone who feels that they always need the latest and the greatest, should not be criticized. The excessive shopping and spending is being done for a reason. Some people see buying objects as a stress reliever and time for themselves. We have heavy influence now, as well. I would never put someone down for doing what they want to do with their hard earned money.

Society as a whole, absolutely overspends on materials. Everything is about marketing. Businesses and what not market to influence others to buy. There is a lot of influence on tv, social media, billboards, etc. They want us to spend our money and we have no problem with spending it on what we like. Personally, I use to impulse buy whatever, whenever because I felt lonely. I thought things would bring me joy. I would keep the products and eventually give them away. It was the high of buying that I wanted, not the actual items. 

I felt better at and in the moment. When I got home and was surrounded by all this stuff, I realized I was still empty on the inside. These materials couldn't bring me peace, joy, and/or happiness. I want to end by saying being materialistic is absolutely fine as long as your priorities are in order. No one should be criticized for living their life. Don't be fooled and think that a designer purse, etc is going to give you what you're looking for in your life.
