Stuff, we all love to have things. From lotions to jewlery we love to have things that either make us smell good or look good. In this eassy I will answer the age old question...should we as a society be criticized for loving our modern possessions? I can answer this question with two simple reasons: we work hard for what we have and we as a society are always working towards improving ourselves, obtaining the items we have is how we show we've payed our dues. 

We as a society love our stuff, yes I know I mentioned that in my beginning statement. But it is a true fact, one that can be proven by what we do in our daily lives. From going to school, and incurring debt to finding the "big job". We spend our entire lives working hard for what we have. How do we do this? Well in my opinion it starts when we head off to college. We start off either in a dorm or in a small apartment, one we have to pay for somehow. And how do we pay for this simple cost of living? We either work our way through college or we survive on student loans and help from our parents. If we end up working our way through college we use that money to pay for school expenses but also start our journey of obtaining possessions. We start maybe with a mattress on the floor and a television. That TV to some might be viewed as a materialistic item but it, along with the mattress is items you have worked hard for to make your life a little bit more enjoyable. Why as a society should we be punished for making our lives a little more bareable by buying the things that make us even a tiny bit more happy? We shouldn't because though we do have a tendency to have a lot of "stuff" we also have the tendency to work our butt off for what we have. From being that college student struggle through school, taking on debts. To finding the entry level job we have worked towards since our beginning journey of school. We have spent years of our lives eating ramon noodles and small apartments and all we want is to enjoy our lives with items we choose to own. Society shouldn't punish us for this, they should understand that it takes hard work and dedication to have the items that we possess. 

Those items from that small television to the mattress on the floor is how we show we have adapted to society and made ourselves better. Because, as we continue on our journey through school and then into our Enry level job we then start to develop more items. Maybe we are then able to purchase furniture, and a laptop or tablet. Those items to some may be viewed as necessities i.e the furniture. But to others in society they might be viewed as more materialistic things that we shouldn't have. I disagree, because those are items that make up a home, they are what make life worth living. We show that we have made those leaps from struggling to having the dream career with all the items we collect. The laptop is something that some might view as being materialistic, but in others eyes its actually become a necessity because of how prominent technology has become. The list goes on and on because the amount of items we can obtain can increase. 

In the end though, we fight hard every day with going to school learning the skills needed to be a grown adults. We then take those skills and use them to get us an entry level job. That in turn takes us further and further down the career path. Throughout which we develop the materialistic items that some want to critized. Those items as stated above show we have worked hard for the things we have procured for ourselves. It also showcases the levels we have obtained in our lives. It shows we are no longer a struggling college student but may now be a successful career person. These and many other reasons are why we as a society shouldn't judge people who have a certain amount of items. Because we are not a materialistic society. We are a hard working society that likes to show our worth. 
