In fact, collaboration is more successful for individuals than rivalry. Cooperation is considerably more likely to result in big, long-lasting successes in a complicated society. The likehood of a task being successful increases with a unifies approach since every team member puts up an enormous amount of effort. Working together is frequently important to become competitive. The career beginning of Michael Jackson and the ideas presented in Dr. Spencer Johnson's book who Moved My Cheese serve as examples of the value of collaboration over competition.

 The"king of Pop," Michael Jackson, began his career with the intention of collaborating with his siblings rather than seeking to complete in the music industry. He and his siblings formed a band named "Jackson 5" when they were young. They gave performances throughout numerous nations and gained a lot of notoriety for their "avant-garde" music. M.Jackson understood that he needed to start by cooperating in order to advance in life. Working with his siblings taught him how to cope with competition, make an impact on his audience, improve his musical abilities, and, in general, how to live in the complicated, competitive environment. He also achieved renown. Michael Jackson achieved success with his brothers' support and his own hard work.

The information in the book Who Moved Cheese in Comparable to M.Jackson's account of his professional life. Two men and two  mice in pursuit of cheese are the central characters in the narrative. The metaphor of the cheese is used to illustrate the need and desire of every living thing. Despite their persistent rivalry and attempts to undermine one another, the two guys are unable to locate the cheese. The two mice, however, cooperate by splitting up the paths they take to locate cheese. They collaborate on their strategy, whilst the males struggle to locate the cheese in an effort to outdo one another. The guys eventually starve to death. Working together, the mice eventually locate the cheese and settle close to a cheese warehouse. 

Cooperation is undoubtedly more successful for people than rivalry. The stories of the book Who Moved My Cheese and the beginning of Michael Jackson's career both highlight the value of working together to succeed in a cutthroat environment.


