Everyone want to be happy but how do we become happy? Different people have different ideas on achieving happiness. One of the things to consider on the path of happiness is whether or not happiness is focusing on the happiness of others or from working on oneself.
It becomes clear when you think about long enough that happiness comes from working on your own goals. While the state of the people around you affects your emotional state, people can be happy around you while you are miserable inside. 
     A person have to wake up to themsleves and live their own lives. Happiness needs self esteem and purpose in life in order to be achieved. Focusing on your goals give you purpose.  Those goals are the reason people stay motivated. They also provide people the plan and points that people shape their lives and in the end themselves. Hence, our goals are our intentions for our own existences. In order for us to be happy, we have to set the right intentions that we think will bring us happiness. When we accomplish those goals not only might they give us happiness but we also gain a higher self esteem. A higher self esteem means we value ourseleves more and feel good about ourselves. Conversely, not feeling that you are person of value or having low self esteem makes us less happy. Low self esteem could negatively impact the motivation to realize our goals. Taking us futher from the life we want for oursleves.
     Despite all of those reasons, it is easy to see how some might think happiness would come instead from focusing on the happiness of others. And while you can have positive feelings while serving and helping others that doesn't promise you happiness in your own life. Caring for others and the relationships in your life does impact your life but doesn't ensure your happiness. You can help someone get over a breakup but still feel hate your job. But if you make being a caring and giving individual one of your goals then you can fullfill that need. In the end, your goals and the effort you put in your life and relationships are still the means to which you achieve happiness.
