The times that we are in right now clearly and unfortunately are about how we come across to our viewers. If we look presentable on camera and say a few intelligent words then people will believe everything else i have to say.
     Wow! Is this what we have come to America! Who looks better? Who dresses better? Who has the most appealing 30 second tictok video? How sad! I thought we were better then that! 
     People are not taking the time to actually listen to what someone is saying, or  simply just not listening at all. All they do is give it a "like" and move on never really hearing if that person is gonna be competent and lead us in the matter they are representing to the world. I do have to say i have been guilty of going off of looks and first impressions myself. Im not proud of it but lets be honest... We have all done it. We are not taking the time to really listen or do the proper reasearch if needed before we come to that cynical conclusion we make while cooking dinner, tripping over the dog, and yelling at someone to close the door behind them.
     We are living in a chaotic world and until we slow down and take a breath, this world is gonna chew us up and spit us out. Because nothing will change until everyone admits their is a problem and it is addressed. 
     Im not saying that there isnt beautiful people out their that are not smart, im just saying lets take the time to find out how smart they really are. Challenge these public figures, find out what they are really made of and make them work for the honest votes we can give them. People need to get that word WORK back in their vocabulary. Put down the phone and grab a book once in awhile. 
     I never thought i would sound like my parents but i guess it comes full circle in this crazy mess we call our lives! Good luck people lets start using our minds again in the way we should and dont forget to have respect and kindness for everyone we come across because you never know what kind of impact you could have on someones day!
