Have you ever heard the saying you can't love anyone else until you learn to love yourself? The same goes for happiness. That is, your own happiness can't be found through others- you must find the means and inspiration inside of your own self in order to experience self growth and, in doing so, to create happiness for yourself. 

In order to experience happiness, one must focus on what makes one happy. If you go about life only focusing on what others want you to do, you will not find true happiness. In fact, people-pleasing is actually a toxic trait that can be detrimental to your mental health and undermine your own happiness. If you continually do only for others in order to make them happy while ignoring your own wants and needs, you will not be happy. Rather, you will have only focused on the happiness of others while disregarding your own. You must focus on your own unique, individual, self-curated goals and how you plan to accomplish them in order to forge a path to true happiness.

Some people will argue that true happiness comes from selflessness, but this is not true. In order to find happiness within yourself, you must adknowledge yourself, your dreams, your desires, and your goals. It's important to set and work towards goals for yourself so that you may be able to achieve happiness for yourself. It is important to assert your boundaries and set limits with others so that you can afford yourself the opportunity to realize your own dreams. If you are not focused of fulfilling yourself, you will not find happiness within yourself.

Happiness is a feeling that comes from working on yourself, spurred from within yourself. You must look within and ask what is needed for you to be happy. What are your goals? Your dreams? Your desires? Further, how can you get there? Make a plan, and then get to working on it. Accomplishing your personal goals leads to happiness. You must adknowledge these conditions and then work to obtain them, focusing on yourself-not the wants and needs of others. Only once you have identified and fulfilled your own wants and needs- your own dreams and desires- will you be able to obtain true happiness.
