Images and Impressions have far too much of an effect on people.  Appearance far outweighs intellegence in this day and age.  If it looks pretty, it's the best.  If it costs the most, it's the best.  It's a fantasy world created by media.  People need to take the time to research products and people before making decisions on purchases and deciding on who they want to be.  

Advertisements are made to catch your eye and the music is created to stick in your mind.  If a commercial has a catchy tune, you will remember the song, then the commercial, then you are more likely to think of that particular item if you are shopping for something like that without researching it, but because you remember it.  Beautiful or trendy packing will likely cause you to purchase a product without doing any research as well.  Bingo!  Mission accomplished.  There should be restrictions on packaging and advertising to keep the market fair and require people to research what they are purchasing.  

Celebreties are always shown at their best.  Their images are often touched up to create the image of perfection.  It is unrealistic to think everyone can look that way and it is demeaning to the average human.  Beauty does not make a person.  More emphasis should be made on celebrity abilities and knowledge to allow a real world image of a person.  It creates negativity in the young and old trying to look like someone or be like someone that cannot offer anything to society but their looks.  

I understand why the brain works like it does and I also understand why advertising is what it is.  People like pretty things and pretty people.  The more advertisements use pretty packaging to distribute it or pretty people to advertise it, the more they will sell, and the more money they will make and the cycle will continue. The negative impact of the effect images and impressions have on people is apparent in society.  People try to hard to look like what the see.  People spend too much money on things that just look pretty.  The media creates  a fake world and people spend their lives trying to fit into it.  It causes depression.  It causes illness.  It causes death.  It causes people to go broke and lose everything.  All of this because they want to fit into an appearance that media deems 'right'.  

Toning down the media world in advertising, imagry, and promotions would make the world a better place.  Kids want the bright colored toys and packages.  Men want the bodies of movie stars.  Women make themselves physically ill trying to look like celebrities in magazines.  People spend all their money on material items because media says it's what is in style.  Tone down the visuals and create a world of reality.  Things aren't always what they seem, show them as they are. 
