Cooperation in the this world should be seen as the key to more success. While competition is a pretty big factor in whether or not somone is successful, I'm here to argue that cooperation is a simpler and more effective way to success. Competition pushes the idea that everything in life ust be done alone. Cooperation involves not only helping others, but accepting help from others. Teamwork goes miles further than does working alone.

Competition promotes trusting no one but yourself to reach your goals. While this may lay true in some cases, teamwork and cooperation are what drives todays world. Look at how the biggest companies and advancments were acheived, with a team. Though, even with cooperation playing a big role, there still is competition to even be involved in said team in some cases. For example, when trying to find a job in today's world, one of the best ways to do it is to get to know people and to be referred. One can achieve this by cooperting and working together with someone else to land the job. Cooperation also applies to projects, whether they be at work or school, or even a simple task elsewhere, a lot more can be achieved when working together with someone else that has the same goal that you do. When you set people to work against each others, sure you'll end up getting the best of the group, but is that person have the ability it work with others in the same manner. Sometimes it's not about showing everyone up, but helping others grow as you have grown is a key factor into leading a successful life. You may also gain new friends and people you can trust this way as well.            

While cooperation may push you a bit further in the world of success, that is not to completley disregard competition. Competition still plays a big factor in todays world. Even if you have someone refer you to a job, the competition is still there in order to reach your end goal. Both competition and cooperation can go hand and hand, but cooperation will always help get better results. 
