The questions between competition or cooperation to achive sucess is a real question in todays world. People are often wondering how to get a head. How do I move up the career lader? How do I get a better grade point avarage? The are questions that are constantly being thought off. In school you are often taught a mix of these, with group activities or group projects but then also rewarded for having the highest grade in a class or the highest grade point avarge your grade. In the work place, competition is more comonly known. You are more likly to notice people completing in task rather than working together because they'll get the notice. So which one is better or which one will actually help you achive sucess?
Competition is more common as you get older. You see less group work, collaberation, because the reality is, one person is going to be the top person not a group. You boss will not promote a group to a high level of managment, but they will promote one person. But does that mean you team will like you? No. If you are always underminding your coworkers, intensly going above and beyond them, making them look bad, as a memeber of managment they will have no respect for you and probably have no interest in listening to your athority. There will be times when you will need the competition mind-set, like if you are a business owner and need to find a way to rise above the competion. However, that begs the questions, does it matter if they respect you? I believe it does matter because things work a lot smother when they do. 
Cooperation is easier when you are in the school ages and becomes increasingly harder the older you get. The reason? Theres not one reason why other then you tend to become so focused on achivement that you mind looses the focus on team work. Cooperation is a key factor, however, in a lot of different ways. Is it the best way to achive sucess? Maybe yes, but also maybe no. The idea behind cooperation is that you will work as a team, thus building a repor with the team you are working with. This can cause two things, either a, you will have there respect and will be happy if you are places above them or b, you will become click-y and loose the respect in that mannor. However, having the respect of the team will make your job easier in the long run. 
In the first paragraph, I asked which one is better or which one will help to achive sucess? In truth both will. I believe cooperation is the better option but also competition does not hurt to have. So in a work place setting, having both is a good thing. I will say that this is based off the idea that you are working in a corporation style enviorment and it will be different if you are your own boss and need to rise above competion in your field. But the same affects could be in place for those as well. Each individul person should be able to show there work, there worth to a company at some point, not every activity should be this way however. There should also be cooperations activities, group activites, as to build a better repor through out coworkers and build those core values that a company maybe striving for. It's a balance between the two that most are looking for and want. 
