We've all been  there: you're in a supermarket picking up items that you need for your house whether it be food, a hygiene product, or something else needed around the house. But while you are perusing the store, you find some item. Maybe this item is a bit more expensive than what you usually buy. Maybe buying this right now would be an impulse buy. Maybe you don't necessarily need it now, but you may need it later. So you go ahead and buy it, take it home and it just sits there. Days, weeks, months go by anf this item is never used. Materialism, buying items to fulfill some type of desire, has just occured. You have now sunk money into an item for no reason other than your potential happiness that may or may not be fulfilled. Materialism can form a problem in society when we chase products and possessions to find happiness. Today's society has chosen to become materialistic as focus has shifted from the community to the self. Materialism itself is not the problem, but a lack of societal structure.

Why do people need items to fulfill there desires? We spend a lot of time telling people to chase status. We tell society to be truly successful, we need them to go to college, get a 9 to 5 job, make a big salary, and that will create true happiness. That creates people who are always competing for the next promotion or the next status symbol. People gain monetary assets and rise up the ranks always focusing on nothing but the self in order to improve and what does that look like? Materialism. You have to have the biggest house, the newest car, the most updated technology no matter what it takes out of you. That's what success looks like on the outside. There is no looking outward on how to improve the community. Just how to improve your standing among others. Materialism aids this by providing these status symbols. It does not provide true happiness however.

If you look at statistics, people today are much less happy than previous generations. We have replaced real relationships with social media. People are having less children and having these children later and later. Relationships, family, and cmmunity are not as valuable to current generations because we aren't taught to value these. We attach the worth of people to the size of the checks they bring home. That promotes materialism. We cannot criticize materialism alone. The way people are being raised as soon as they hit high school is why society has become materialistic. We fight for status, look for happiness in objects and envy our neighbors' possessions. Materialism is a symptom. Not the disease.

To aid the issue of materialism some would love to criticize, we need to attack the route of the problem. We need to commit to teaching family values, community, and togetherness. If we can put camaderie back into our society, we will be able to start setting aside materialistic beliefs. People will be happier just because we have each other. We need to stop deriving enjoyment from possessions and, when we start valuing experiences and community, materialism will fix iteself in the long term.
