Happiness is an effemorial goal and often a moving target. How does one know if they are truly happy and when they actually achieve this level of stasis, how does one stay there? I truly believe that we will never really be happy by focusing only on our own personal goals and instead will achieve true happiness by focusing instead on the happiness of others. It is through this selflessness and empathy that we will be able to hit our "flow" or true goal of happiness.

Happiness doesn't last, especially when one is focused solely on their own personal happiness. It may be a moment of euforia and exhuberance but it's a feeling that won't last forever. However meterorically high the feeling may feel, an equal and opposite low or off ramp will also be encountered. It is during these down moments that we may often re-evalute why we are experiencing these momentary feelings of depression and despair. With any great high is an equal and opposite low. But if we shift our thinking and focus instead on the happiness of others, by tying our feelings to the successes of the people who are around us and those that we adore, we will live in this euforic moment much longer. Our overall happiness - measured by total time - will be much longer and much more intense, since it is tied to the success and feelings of others. This mind shift allows us to focus instead on the successes of the people around us and to live in the moment with them when they are feeling their true highs. It also allows us to experience more total happiness. Instead of only tying it to our immediate feelings, we have the ability to life vicariously through the experiences and emotions of all of the different people around us. Surfing a wave of happiness or delight as it ripples through our various social networks. It is through these waves that we are able to sustain a higher average level of happiness than by solely focusing on our success and achivements.

I truly believe that if our ultimate goal is to end up being happy or at least maintaining an overall level of happiness and life satisfaction, focusing on the delight and feelings of other people will get us there much faster than focusing on our own internal ups and downs. It is through this mindset shift that we are able to empathize and celebrate the unique successes of others and also encourage them to live in the moments of their joy. Each of the moments fills the our world with laughter, excitement, smiles and ultimately happiness. If we can put our efforts into helping to arrange circumstances focusing on the happiness of others, then the entire world will be a better place. Allowing ourselves to become less selfcentered and more open to the prospect that each of our actions and decisions can impact the joy and delight felt by others. We may go out of our way to be kind of a stranger, may set up a surprise for a friend or may even engage in behavior that is our of character for ourselves, just to see the twinkle in another persons eye and a grin on their face. It is through these small moments that I experience my own levels of happiness and often the greatest delights in my life are not the awards or individual successes that I've experienced, but the times when I got to witness someone else succeed. I get the opportunity to reveal in their joy and bask in their happiness. There is truly nothing better. 

