The pursuit of happiness. It is easy for some, and not so easy for others. Ask yourself this. Are you happy? What does that mean? How do we get there? I know from experience that it has been a long hard road to find the meaning of happiness as my walk of life was blazed with traumatic experiences sparking an everlasting grip of sadness and a heavy weight on my shoulders that I carried for 36 years. I am now only 37. Yes, only in the past year have I discovered what it means to be truly happy and how I got there? Well, it might not be exactly what you are thinking. If you live just to please others I can assure you that you are not truly happy. If you are not taking the time to take care of you, I can assure you you are not truly happy.  
 It feeld good when we do things for other people. I know because I do them, I have volunteered, I have donated to charity, I have given dollars to the homeless on the street, or helo the door for the person behind me, we all surely have commited some act of kindness and when we do it resonates within, it makes us feel good, right? Those things , acts of kindness are one thing, but when you are living to please others, and not looking after yourself, that is when you are going to find you are not happy. How do I know this? I spent my entire life doing it! My grandmother raised me and all I ever war didnted to do was ake her proud. See my brother was the favorite, the golden child if you will and I was overlooked often. I was the black sheep and I was abused by both grandparents, and yet still I strived to make each of them proud of me. Maybe I thought if I did the abuse would stop. Sadly my friends this type of behavior carried into my adult life and into my relationships, where I found myself in an abusive relationship . Where all I did day in and day out was wake up and have to aim to please my abuser, because if he was happy, I was happy? Wrong! If he was happy I survived another day. 

Now I realize that some cases may not be as extreme as mine. There may be someone out there who just wants to make their Dad proud by winning the baseball game or making their mom proud by getting accepted into the school they want, the stay at home mom who does EVERYTHING. Oh! Perfect example. Stay at home mom who waits on her husband hand and foot after he comes home from work.. He does NOTHING. He wprks , brings home the money, she takes care of the kids the house the animals the bills the doctors appointments the soccer games the PTA meetings the baths the lunches the sleepovers and everything in between, and she does it all with a smile. I have seen this before first hand I have seen and heard a woman tell me that she loved doing this that yes she was happy. That was until finally, one day, she was granted some time off for herself. She didn't want to take it but she did. A full week of pure pampering while the husband had to fill in her shoes, and boy oh boy did things change. The husband started to apprecite the wife for all of her hard work and he wasnt so miserable anymore, and the wife, well she was actually relaxed, she felt appreciated, and the family cvame together and that is when they found true happiness,

So you see, happiness can't really come from doing everything for everyone else. Do not get me wrong, as I explained there is a big difference when we are talking about doing acts of kindness for others as opposed to living your life just to please someone else. There is no way that you will ever be able to find true happiness living that way of life and I can attest to that and many others that I have crossed paths with in my lifetime. Be happy and then go out and spread the happy. Then and only then can you help others find their happy and the worls would be a beautiful place. You have to find what it is inside you that truly makes you happy. You have to find your passion your drive your purpose your meaning, and you cannot depend on someone else to do that for you!

There is only one you and you are perfectly imperfect. Remember that you have a purpose, and the guy un front of you and the lady over there and that boy over there. Each and everyone of us has a purpose to fufill in this life and it is our job to find out exactly what that is and I think when we do that is when we unlock that happiness. Try out different things, but never ever give up. When you find that joy do not let anyone steal it 
