Success is best measured by our own happiness. I can certainly attest to the fact that the more I compete and compare my own lives to other people's, the more unhappy and dissatisfied I become. There have even been times that I have noticed my productivity at work suffer as a result of being preoccupied with comparing myself with others. If we appear successfull to others, it is not necessarily indicitive of our own true state of being. If a person were to compare their achievements to other people, they will inevidably conjure up a perception of someone else which is out of reach and unattainable. By comparing ourselves to others, we can not be truely happy and as a result, are unable to succeede. Competition can not provide lasting success
Cooperation is the only way to achieve true success. Since it is impossible to achieve success through competition (which will exponentially always result in competition between the self and others), the only alternative truely has to be cooperation. By putting our differences aside and coming together, we can make somthing that is greater than the sum of our seperate individual achievements. 
It can appear to be more rewarding to go all-in on one's self, and completely ignore everyone else. Surely it could be more profitable to put yourself first. However we simply can only know and do and be good at a limited number of things and ideas. Through collaboration and cooperation, we are able to develop new success which would have been inconceivable without our joint efforts. It doesn't make sense to try and re-invent the wheel, but you never know what incredible idea may surface as a result of our collaborative efforts. I remember during the 2020 global pandemic, we were able to succeede as a species when different manufacturing plants repurposed their production facitilies to create goods that were in high demand as a result of the health crisis. There was no competition motiviating these actions. Many people deprioritized profits to come together and successfully triumph over the virus. 
