Images and impressions appear to have too much of a negative effect on people in our modern society.  Because in our present day, we are all so interconnected by computers, cell phones and wifi in general, we are much more aware of the greater world around us then people were in past decades.  A lot of money and creativity is being used to sway general opinion to gain more money and power.  Although we feel we are in control of our decisions, the sad truth is that we are often being manipulated in ways we cannot conceive. 

As we begin our day, many of us turn on the news, or get on phones or computers to check e mails.  People may scroll through Facebook, Twitter and other social media accounts.  Inside all this harmless activity there are ads.  Often, they are just along the side of a computer page and seem innocuous.  There are vivid ads on TV and compelling words on the radio.  Although it may seem innocent, the reality is that there are talented people designing each innocuous ad to grab our attention and influence us to take action or purchase something.  We feel we come up with decisions on our own, but in reality we have been targeted and manipulated to make those very decisions.  

In the same way, public figures hire teams of people to present themselves to the public in a way that will influence our voting habits, movie and magazine choices. And, unfortunately, we don't see the reality but the facade to sway us for our decisions. 

People may claim that they are not swayed by ads; but it only takes a look at what a person is wearing, eating, buying and otherwise consuming, to see that indeed, we are all swayed and manipulated by the teams that create the facade we come to believe is truth. 

We live in an amazing time.  We can experience events happening on the other side of the world in ways previous generations could only dream of.  We can achieve things with computers and technology unheard of just 50 years ago.  But it comes at a price.  That same technology is used to reach into our living rooms and bedrooms and manipulate our actions.  Everything comes at a price and this is the price we pay. We are manipulated by created images and impressions to gain our trust and thus our spending and influence.    
