Modern society should definitely be criticized for being materialistic. There is too much garbage in the world. There are already people being enslaved by terrible working conditions and pay to make the items people buy. Most of it is junk. No one needs to have as much stuff as they think they do.
  It is very bad for the environment as well. Not only is it worthless, but the amount of waste being dumped into the world for each item is disgusting.
   People think their worth is dependant on what items they own. This needs to change. People need to stop consuming at the rate that they do. People need to think about each item they buy and really consider if it is worth the work that was put into making it.
   People need to consider packaging of these items as well. This can lead to more waste.
  Do you really need a wall covering that says "live, laugh love" or a plastic bunny to put out on Easter once a year? These items were probably made in a factory of underpaid workers that pummel dangerous fumes and unload scrap into our world. It is complete nonsense and it needs to stop before we completely overtake ourselves with junk.
  People seem to be happier when they live in clean, well organized spaces. Rather than be completely buried in garbage and dust, people should strive to use only what is needed. A few special items are fine every now and then, but the amount of garbage we accumulate over time is insane and completely worthless.
   Even know as I look at my desk I see all the completely wasteful products that I have accumulated. Where do they go when I get rid of them? They go into dumps, they end up in the oceans and breaking down into our food systems. Everything has to go somewhere. People do not think of this when they are needlessly buying.
   Some people experience a rush of positive emotions when they buy things. There are other, healthier ways to get this rush. Nature and exercise are two examples. If you learn to appreciate being out in nature, you might be able to teach yourself not to consume as much. People need to realize their impact on the world and take a step back. Before buying something, people need to ask themselves if there is a real purpose for this item. Less is more. The rush of buying something fades quickly.
 

