There are multiple ways in which to address the idea of materialism. On one hand, it seems simple that the more nice things we acquire, the happier we will be. Many of us work so hard in order to do just that: acquire as many nice things as possible. However, at the same time that we pursue these things, we often ask ourselves "is this really what life is and should be about?"

Materialism has become an increasingly hot topic since the creation of social media. With things like Facebook and Instagram, it's easy to see the things that our peers acquire (or at least appear to) and it's easy to feel jealous or as if we're "behind in life" as it relates to these other people. We see people "flexing" their brand new luxury car, or new boat that they're taking out on the lake for the firs time. This creates alot of the internal issues for many and, in my opinion, causes many to be so critical of those that manage to acquire a lot of material possessions. Again we ask, does it really matter if someone has more than me, and does that necessarily make them happier or more successful?

Others have found that through getting rid of the personal possessions that they have acquired over time has actually led them to be happier, as in a way it "decluttered" their life. This is sort of the opposite of materialism but directly relates to the question about whether or not it makes someone happy. They have found living a life not centered around the things they own to be more simplistic and creates a simpler path to overall happiness and wellbeing.

Ultimately, I don't believe anyone should be criticized for taking a materialistic approach to life. We're all chasing happiness in our own ways and many of us find these from a plethora of different sources. Some find happiness from acquiring nice things, while others prefer experiential purchases. Some people find happiness in solace and simply staying at home and relaxing with their loved ones. Some find happiness entirely from other sources that come of us can't even comprehend, and that's perfectly OK as well. So all in all, it's nobody's place to criticize another's own pursuit of happiness.
