What is happiness? What makes people truly happy? Such simple questions, but perhaps hard to answer. While the answers will vary from person to person, logic dictates that people who focus on personal goals and helping others are more likely to be happy.  

Goals are important to personal growth. As far back as grade school, we learn about goals and making progress toward a desired outcome. Indeed, goals are important throughout life, and paramount in terms of not only personal growth, but being happy or satisfied with their life experience.

One example of a personal goal that can spur happiness is exercise. Steady exercise throughout the week is not only healthy for the body in terms of physicality, but it is also beneficial mentally. In short, people feel better about themseleves. Further, when people have a goal -- for example, to lose 5 pounds -- and they attain that goal, they achieve a sense of satisfaction. Satisfaction leads to pleasure and, you guessed it, happiness.

Happiness can stem from a variety of sources, of course. Another way that people seek happiness is by contributing to a cause that ressonates with their heart. For example, people who love animals can get great satisfaction through volunteering or donating to an animal shelter. The personal warmth and "happiness" that the animal lover can get from these activities is limitless. It helps center them while setting them on a positive path.

Of course, there are always detractors in all walks of life. Some people might argue that personal goals can be limiting or unattainable. Meanwhile, others might argue that one should focus on fulfilling their own happiness and not focusing on others. But listening to naysayers is never productive. 

While there could be some validity to these arguments, it truly is up to every one of us to truly discover what makes us happy. But more often than not, by setting a personal goal and achieving that goal, or by contributing positively to a cause that is close to one's self, the limits to attaining and experiencing happiness are boundless.  
