Are we as a modern society be criticized for being too materialistic?  I believe that being too materialistic should be criticized.  People in todays world but stuff just to buy something.  It seems that we have fallen into the trap of too much stuff.  
I ask you, how many shirts do you have.  Enough for one week, one month, or even more?  Is it realistic to have more than 8-10 shirts or is it selfish?  When I counted how many shirts are in my closet, I found 34.  Do I really need 34 shirts?  Probably not, but I really didn't want to get rid of them either.  If you have more than ten shirts, should you be critisized for it?  I think not, because there is already enough negativity in the world.  However, what number would make it ok to critisize?
Dollar stores have made it easy for people to acquire even more stuff.  By making items cheaper and more accessible, people have moved to acquiring even more stuff at dollar stores.  I believe that when people accumulate all of these items just because they want more stuff is a problem.  We have created economic markets that encourage having more and more stuff, even if it is cheap stuff.  
In closing, I don't believe that we should be critical of people who purchase things just to buy more, but at what time do we put a stop to this?  We need to look at society and see why people feel the need to buy more and more stuff and address the real issues of their mental health.  
I also think about how people who acquire too much stuff become hoarders.  This is extreme materialism where people have so much stuff they run out of room in their home and turn to hoarding in garages, rental units or even other people's houses.  When this happens rodents and insects start to form homes in the unused items.  I ask, when iss enough, too much?  I think that when you buying becomes a habit or when you don't have room for any more items.  I follow a rule for myself when thinking about purchases; do I already have something that can do the job of this item and what can I get rid of if I purchase this new item.  These are good rules to follow, so that you don't end up with too many items at home.
