"Beauty is in the eye of the beholder."  While this may be a common expression, does what our eyes observe truly reflect the reality of the world around us?  From TV to print media to online presence, the appearances of things often supercedes what lies beneath.  In our current everyday life, for the most part, images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.

In many aspects of our society, more importance is placed on appearance and the superficial than on facts and reality.  Social media especially contributes to this phenomenon by giving a carefully-curated view of users' lives.  Digitally edited selfies,  amazing looking meals, and beautiful travel pictures may provide a glamorous snapshot of one's life, but they likely do not capture all the nuance of a person's day-to-day existence.  There have been numerous studies showing a detrimental effect by social media on observers, who compare the mundane things in their lives to profiles of people seemingly doing an endless stream of amazing things and understandably feel that they fall short.  In this way, the images and impressions people get from viewing their social media feeds can have an overwhelmingly negative effect on them.

Another way that the effect of images and impressions is overstated is in the political sphere.  This is not a new phenomenon; in the 1960 Presidential debate between John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon.  It was one of the first televised debates, and Nixon's heavy makeup melted under the hot studio lights, giving him a sweaty, nervous appearance.  Those who had only listened to the debate on the radio and gotten the substance of the debate thought that Nixon came out the winner, but those who had seen the televised debate thought Kennedy won handily.  This trend has only continued, and many times people put more faith in how politicians present themselves rather than their actual positions.

In conclusion, images and impressions have a great deal of effect on people, even more so than reality.  This can be seen today in social media and in potiticians being more flash than substance.  One has to keep this in mind and be careful not to follow our first impressions and dig deeper to get to the true underlying meaning of things.
