Let's face it. Nobody wants to be described as superficial, yet there are times when it feels like we have to compromise on idealism to operate in society. Nothing captures this quite as well as the debate between materialism and minimalism. There's an old saying that says "money can't buy happiness." If that's true, then why does almost everyone stress about finances? Let's think about this issue beneath the hood.

Materalism is a poison to modern society for a simple reason: The way out of misery is in. Just think about it - where do you experience your emotional reactions to life? It's not in the outside world, it's in the inner world. Why do you want to keep up with the neighbors when you see that they have a new car? Why do you want the newest iPhone? It's because of how you're feeling on the inside. Almost all of our decisions and beliefs are the result of social ifluence, whether we realize it or not. What if instead of foolishly spinning on a wheel of infinite desire, we embraced radical contentness and appreciation for what's right in front of us? The result would be an individual who feels a much greater satisfaction towards life, and a society which becomes much more kind in nature.

I can hear the argument now: "But we need money to survive." I don't refute this. Food, shelter, utilities... They all cost money. How do we rectify this seeming contradiction? Through the concept of ikigai. Ikigai is a Japanese term which rougly translates to "reason for being." It combines passion, societal need, and ability to make enough money for subjective well-being. So, dear reader, what is your ikigai? It doesn't have to be specific at first. For example, just stating that you want to help others and grow as an individual would be a great starting point for discovering ikigai.

So, do we need materialism in our lives to live a good life? No. What we need is a feeling of life purpose, a sense of inclussion within society, and a base standard of living to ensure our own sucurity. Look at it this way: For animals, life ends at survival. They have a full belly and survived the day. Therefore, it was a good day. Humans have decided that things need to much more difficult. It's just that we have to take a step back and realize that things don't have to be this way. Both for our own good, and societies.   
