     The pursuit of happiness is a subjective, individual, and often, lifelong journey. Our perceptions of what makes one happy are as diverse and varied as our individual personalities. Some people find happiness and fulfillment in the successful achievement of individual goals while others find their bliss in helping others or contributing to the advancement of humanity. Which of these paths is more likely to result in happiness? Again, while the answer to that question in quite subjective, many people throughout history have discovered that lending a hand to others or contributing one's talents to the improvement of the world often leads to deeper and more meaningful personal fulfillment and happiness. 
     While it may seem unusual and inappropriate to view happiness through the lens of mental illness, experience with depression has prompted me to seriously consider the sources of happiness in my life. Like many people, I have achieved some measure of positive emotion in my life as a result of setting goals and working hard to achieve my personal pursuits. And yet, when negativity takes over in the form of depression, it is impossible to reach for the dreams that feel so elusive and far away. The path that was once illuminated before me instead feels like a black hole of negativity. In my experience, the answer to this dilemma has always been to seek something outside of myself. By focusing on my connections with other people and the world at large, I am able to once again find a sense of hope and light in my life. When I feel low, the best remedy is typically to find some small way in which I can practically improve the lives of the people I love. For example, when I do not feel like getting out of bed, reminding myself that my family would enjoy breakfast slowly pulls me from the darkness of my bed to the lively chatter of my dining room table as my children giggle over the blueberry pancakes I made especially for them. 
     Of course, it is not fair or appropriate to assume that all people have a similiar experience with happiness. Some people would be much more likely to find happiness in their pursuit of career goals, personal hobbies, or other personal pursuits. However, I believe that my experiences with finding happiness during depression are true of many people who are pursuing meaning and fulfillment in life. Pursing one's personal goals can definitely contribute to happiness. However, when the going gets tough, it is often in reaching out to those who need us, and freely giving of ourselves, that ultimately results in a genuinely deep and sincere feeling of fulfillment in our daily lives. 
 
