     While I feel both cooperation and competition can foster growth and result in success, cooperation leads to greater levels of success.  We all find ourselves in numerous situations throughout our lives in which we must compete against others as well as situations in which we must cooperate with others.  Valuable lessons, personal growth, and success can be reached through both, but without cooperation I do not feel that the majority of people will have a great degree of success in life.
     Is it possible to get ahead and be successful in life by oneself without the help of others?  While some may succeed in life with the definition of being "self-made" people who relied only upon themselves to get to where they are, the fact of the matter is that we all need the help of others to achieve our goals.  Whether it be a supportive family growing up, friends who are there to help support us, or co-workers and peers who help us grow and develop professionaly, most of us would not have accomplished the goals we set out to achieve in life.  Working with others and cooperating helps us feel more confident and often leads to long term success in many facets of our lives.  While one may argue that competition brings out the best in us and allows us to be the vest versions of ourselves that we can be, the truth is we would never reach our goals without the help from others.  We can all undoubtedly think of numerous people who have cooperated with us and to who we owe credit to as a result.
     Both competition and cooperation are important in life, and a solid combination of the two can and will work wonders for achieving success in life, I feel that cooperation is vital in achieving the goals and success we all set out to acoomplish in life.  I know I personally would be nowhere in life without being blessed with the support and help of all of those who have worked with me and helped me along life's long and arduous journey.  We all face competition in our personal and professional lives, but cooperation helps us succeed and grow and develop into the people we become.  Each can and do lead to success, but cooperation leads to higher levels of success.
