Almost everything we do as humans is in the pursuit of a degree of happiness in our lives. We come out of the womb looking for warmth, comfort, and acceptance, then spend the rest of our time searching for the next level of fulfillment. Of course, before we can find happiness, we have to define what it means to us individually. Is it financial independance or a large, secure home? Is it a job that you are eager to get to every day because you are always learning and are appreciated by your superiors? Is it just reading a good book, snuggled on your sofa at the end of the day? Any or all of these are valid, and there are as many different definitions as there are people, and all deserve respect. 

In my life, I have found that true happiness comes from serving others. I had a great example in my father. He spent his life in service to his family and community. He was well liked and respected by nearly everyone, without demanding it from anyone. It just came naturally. He was always willing to help when asked, but usually didn't wait. He was just there. I suspect that the entire world would be a calmer happier place if more of us lived day-to-day like he did. 

I do not think that anyone should abandon their personal goal and ambitions. I myself have always set concrete, written goals to help me achieve the things that are most important to me and my family. I work hard, make tangible progress, and try my best to make a better life for myself and my family everyday. I don't believe that taking an agressive stance toward achieving personal goals is selfish or wrong in any way. I do believe that you can blind yourself to the world around you when you focus too much on self, and the things you gain will be empty, and you will be ultimately unfulfilled. The same gains, shared with others, lovingly given will result in a contentment in the soul and the admiration and respect of those who mean the most to you. 

We come out of the womb looking for warmth, comfort, acceptance, and happiness. It is not something that just happens, it must be earned. In the end, the only way to truly find it is to share it freely with others.
