Success is a buzz word for many. What is success? When do we achieve success? Is it something defined from within by who we are and what growth we achieve, or is it something external, a metric, or some grand total? The truth is, success can be both. In fact, it can be many things to many people. Underlying the uncertainty of success is the driving factor behind it. Namely, competition.

Humans are competitive by nature. A great example is our New Year's resolutions. Every year when January first rolls around, you find millions of people making that promise to themselves for the following year, whether it be to make changes in their financial situation, to get into a relationship, or the every popular resolution to shed some pounds. Even against ourselves, we are highly competitive. Why then do we see so many people failing their resolutions? It comes down to lacking competition. We set that huge goal, but we lack the drive to reach it. The people we see succeed at their resolutions are the ones that push themselves to reach it. My goal this year was to lose weight. But I didn't just leave it there. I set up a challenge with myself, where each month that I succeed, I can make a purchase for something that I want. June just wrapped-up, and guess what? That's month six that I've succeeded this year.

It's not just against ourselves that we compete, however. Competing against others can be just as powerful a motivating force. As a gamer, for example, I'm quite familiar with leaderboards. Gamers are constantly competing to get the upper-hand, to get the best score, or to outrank other players. It becomes a major motivating force to not only improve, but to keep improving. Why be rank 78 when I could practice a bit and move up? I don't want to lose out, so I'm willing to put in the work to improve. Competition, again, being the major motivating force to improve, or in other words, to succeed.

While some might argue that cooperation leads people to more success, I disagree. Groups of people can achieve great things by cooperating, however, each person only achieves one small piece of that overall success. They don't own that success, but instead, can only say that they are a singular part of it. One person can't create a box office hit, but an entire production team can. But in that grand scheme, what did each person achieve? Do they even feel accomplished?

Success is a broad idea. What it looks like to one person can be very different for another. The main driving force, and the main staying power behind success, however, is competition. People achieve more and work harder when they're motivated by competition, whether it be against themself or an entire gaming community in my case.
