Every day we are bombarded with all kinds of images. All kinds of fancy colors, drawings, photographs are presented to change how we view things. People, products and ideas are all decorated and presented with novel images which distract us from the true meaning underneath. This is a dangerous trend that we must be cautious not to be swept up in.
When we go to the store, whatever it is we are looking for, we are sure to see all sorts of different versions of the product in all imaginable garb. Big colorful logos. Fancy designs. Pretty pictures. All intended to draw our attention and to make us part with our hard earned money. And while it can be easy to be suckered in, it takes effort to look past this and find the quality product for a reasonable price that would serve us better at the end of the day. In the same way, people can alter our perceptions with some fancy clothes and high class sounding words. This often serves as window dressing to distract us from their deficiencies underneath. Maybe it's a new musical artist. Maybe it's a famous athlete. Maybe it's the person running for political office. Whoever it may be, we must be dilligent to look deeper to the true value of each individual, or we risk costing ourselves a great deal by going down the wrong road.
Some would like you to believe that this surface value is important. That it can guide you in the right direction. That you can learn about other people and things by a quick glance. These people likely want you to limit your time spent in critical thinking so that you can be lead in the direction that would benefit them. However, for your own sake, you must be careful not to let this happen to you. While this could be something minor, like choosing an inferior soda, it could be life altering, like choosing the wrong people to align yourself with. Do not be fooled by appearances, look closely.
This world comes with many distractions. Many are designed to get you to let your guard down and make decision based on surface level appearances. While this is the easy path, it is a path filled with many dangers. But with proper analysis and careful thought, you can avoid these pitfalls and make wise decisions in your life.
