Modern society should definitely be criticized for being too materialistic.  The relentlessly increasing emphasis on acquisition, whether of money or of things, has misdirected people from one's important inner life and relationships, which ideally have nothing to do with the amount of money or possessions one has.

My own life is a good example of the misguided pursuit of money and things, then the redirection to an inner life that is richer, happier and more contented regardless of money or material possessions.  As a young person, I was encouraged to pursue law as a way of "making it" and achieving the material side of the American Dream.  Becoming a trial lawyer did work for a while in that I became distracted by all the things that could be bought and time that could be saved by paying others to complete unpleasant tasks for me, such as house cleaning.  However, reaching my late 30's, I increasingly disliked myself and the pursuit of material wealth.   The things and money faded into insignificance because a person has only so much time/energy and the lion's share of them were directed toward attaining money and possessions, rather than inner awareness, relationships with others and peace.  By my 11th years of practice, I was pretty much burned out.  We like to call a successful legal practice "golden handcuffs" because you are in great material/money shape but you're trapped; in order to break from it, you have to tear at the fabric of that money-grubbing life.  In my late 30's I decided not to live that way anymore, closed the practice and drove cross country, bringing only the possession that fit in my car, to live freely.  Thirty years later, I have no regrets about pursuing a freer life writing freelance, making practically no money but living a wonderfully minimalist lifestyle and being thankful for it every day.

Some, such as my brothers and sisters, are nonplussed by my decision to turn away from material things and money, as they have continued to pursue them.  They say I could be just as happy having them if I otherwise redirected my life.  Not so:  it was the pursuit of things and money that very nearly ruined my life and it was necessary to abandon them in order to be free and happy.  I could not redirect my life without sharply turning away from materialism.

In my experience, materialism is a trap.  Realizing and escaping materialism is at least one key to focusing the time and attention on one's inner life and happiness.  Unfortunately, it appears to me that society is focusing increasingly on acquisition of money and things.  To that extent society is failing its young people because it is driving them to run headlong into the trap, to compete with each other to see who can attain the most trappings of the trap, and to deem the trap a worthwhile goal of life.  It isn't worthwhile; this isn't a competition; and Life is so much more when one turns from money and things.  In my opinion, the sooner young people realize this, the sooner they can pursue true happiness.
