   A widely known saying is that first impressions matter most. How one perceives someone upon their first meeting can influence the way they view that person in the future. This can extend to the things we buy or experiences we choose to partake in. Images and impressions have a large impact on a person's perception, to the point that a person can be permanently swayed by how something appears, rather than how something really is. 
   One place we see the impact of appearances is politics, for example, political campaigns for politicians. Especially during this election season, you will see various ads slandering individuals running for leadership positions by accusing them of being corrupt, not following through with their promises, or otherwise failing their constituents. These ads take information that is biased and typically out of context, or even flat-out wrong, for the purpose of creating a negative and unfavorable impression on the audience viewing the ad. These ads end up being successful, as well, since most people will view the ad and not do their due diligence in researching the actual legitimacy of the facts presented in the campaign, and therefore, when that person goes to put in their vote, they remember the horrible things said about a particular person and vote against them. This has a huge impact on the political landscape of the USA especially because of politicians using their money and power to rise to the top through dishonest targeted campaigning against opponents. This effect of false information leading to skewed impressions can also be seen on social media, where various news reporting websites compete for clicks and site views by tricking the reader with shocking and outlandish headlines. People will take the headline at face value and not click the article, and share news with their friends about what they've seen, creating the spread of misinformation, in effect making people more ignorant and unaware of various topics ranging from history, to science, to even pop culture. 
   Some may say that images and impressions can lead people in the right direction because they can sometimes be true. For example, a perfume showing a picture of a rose can accurately and quickly show a person that the scent is of roses. In this way, images and impressions can be useful. However, when a beauty product tells the buyer that their skin will become blemish-free in only two weeks, and uses doctored photos to demonstrate this fact, this is an example of labels on products being intentionally deceptive and leading the person to having a false first impression. 
   People are bombarded with information about what to buy, what to wear, and what to think, and it is up to them to take a critical approach in examining the information presented to them and determining if it's trustworthy or fraudulent. Despite knowing better, many people are guilty of taking things at face value and letting their first impressions dictate their opinions. Examples of this are seen on tv in the form of ad campaigns, or shocking articles on social media, which are meant to influence a person before they can rationally assess what's being presented to them. As a result, images and impressions can often have a far bigger impact on one than intended. 
