Indeed, competition is the law of nature. Many individuals feel immense success at beating their foes in a task, even if their foes are, in reality, a coworker or colleague and are not a foe at all. When winning is the goal, there is a high risk of failure. Nothing but the top spot will do.

What of the other people, however, who feel most pleasure when helping others? Who gleam a sense of accomplishment from making a difference in the world? When the aim is only to help, the success is much more likely, with very little risk. 

Which of these two types of people do you think feel more intrensic satisfaction with their lives?
I think it's those who aim to help others, for the following reasons:

When you aim to help others, you also improve yourself. You make sure that the skills you have are competent enough to teach others. You put in extra work. You finish your duties first, and allow yourself extra time to help that colleague with their overflow. You study a little bit more than required to make sure your understanding is top notch before you meet with your study partner. You don't want to let them down, so in turn, you don't let yourself down. You strive not only to achieve for yourself, but for others. There is accountability. And, there is cooperation. There's creativity that you might not have conquered on your own. There's innovation. 

Humans were never meant to be an island. 

"It takes a village"...

When you aren't concerned with winning at all costs, you are able to slow down and reflect upon your methods. You can learn, teach, and study at your own pace. You can exert patience. There is no risk of failure, only the cost of ever-refreshing time. There is no deadline to learning and to helping. The methods can constantly be revised, improved upon, compound upon each other.

Winning is defined very narrowly. Be the best. Beat everyone else. Top score, first place, or else. Helping others is more broad. It's easier to achieve small steps to work up to an ultimate goal. You don't need to win the whole war. You only need help one soldier with their task. It's more realistic and less damning. It allows for constant motivation. Every day you are succeeding in a small way, and it will amount to a big thing. 

"Baby steps."

Wouldn't you want to improve yourself, take your time, and be consistently meeting your goals? What if you could do this while improving the lives of others and the world? I think you'd be happier with yourself than if you strove to win the war, at all costs. Rather than only lifting yourself, you'll be lifting others. The rewards will be longer lasting. And you'd be much more likely to succeed.

