Materialism is an important driver of many aspects of our modern society. Our economy depends on our continued desire for material posessions; whether it be a new appliance, new piece of technology, or new clothes. This demand creates jobs producing the very possessions we consumers will go on to purchase. This is somewhat of a self-perpetuating process that we don't necessarily pay much explicit attention to. However, it is worthwhile to consider if our material focus is a good thing for moder society. 

In considering the major contributing factors to an individuals hapiness, materialistic desires do not make the list. Fulfilling these desires provides short-term pleasure without a lasting impact on an individuals long-term sense of wellbeing. 

Consider the typical experience of making an impulsive purchase. You see an item you want and develop a sudden craving to obtain it. Often, you convince yourself that buying the item will make you feel good and bring you hapiness. However often times after making the purchase, the reality doesn't live up to our expectations. We tend to overestimate the lasting impact material possessions will have on our hapiness. Think of your personal situation: Are there items around your house that you were excited to buy but now seldom use?

Our modern society encourages these sorts of impulsive behaviors. Corportations market their latest products to consumers. These advertisements influence consumers to feel as if they need or want the products being advertised. Consumer purchases drive company profits. Companys use their earnings to broaden their market outreach, increase production, and increase marketing efforts. This self perpetuating cycle is at the core of our modern society. However, the way society has developed over time has little to do with what is best for the members of that society. In this sense, materialism is a product of modern society but not an admirable goal and should be justly criticised. 


Promponents of materialism might point to the beneficial effects it has on the economy. Materialism creates demand where no demand previously existed. It creates jobs, with real earnings that workers can spend as they wish. However, these newfound earnings are just as quickly drained with purchases of consumer goods. Happiness gained from purchases remains fleeting. 

Our modern society should be criticised for its materialistic nature. Advertising drives demand for products, and subsequent purchase of these products has little lasting benefit for the individual in terms of hapiness. Our society was not designed to promote individual hapiness. Rather, corportate earnings drive are the end goal. We simply work harder and longer hours in order to afford things we dont need. 
