Competition or cooperation? What is the most effective strategy when successfully maximizing results is the desire. Either side could be argued successfully, but competition is the easy and non-challenging path for the leader, and cooperation is the hard and challenging one. A gladiator may stand as the only victor at the end of a competition, but his or her achievement is limited to their own glory and survival. On the other hand, an army can achieve results at a national or global scale, claiming a prize much more compelling and weighty than the individual warrior.

Focused on results, a leader may scare success out of the participants, but true leadership--promoting not just success, but success in its consistent, repeatable, and most fulfilling form comes from the art of cooperation. On one hand participants will achieve out of fear of loss. On the other hand participants will achieve because they see vision and crave experiencing the realization of it. Think of the domineering supervisor who pits individual employees against one another. The supervisior may ultimately achieve a desired result, but the result will reflect an individual's perspective and ability. Alternatively, a cohesive and cooperative project team will bring to bear the complimentary and synergistic perspectives and abilities of many people. The result may be comparable to what the winning competitor achieved, but it will be more lasting and profound. 

The history of social interaction includes conflict and harmony. Both states can claim achievement, but only one results from a common mindset of participants engaged to achieve an agreed upon end. Competition will produce, but only the victor stands as a testament of the achievement. When achievement is needed at a future time, there is no guarantee of repeated performance that will justify the hopes of the same outcome. In contrast, cooperation will also achieve and the collective team producing the results collectively stand as the testament of the victory. More compelling and more important, there is a redundancy of success embedded in true and deep cooperation. If one participant falls back any of the remaining participants stands ready to make up the difference, because it is not one that scored victory. It is all who scored it.

One might argue a higher cost of cooperation, but this is short-sighted. True it is that the collective may think more broadly and their duration may exceed that of an individual. But there is a cost to the single victor when repeatability and consistency will yield lasting results that competition will continue to bear some level of uncertainty. One may argue that results are results, and that efficiency should reign. But cooperation will yield efficiency over time, and the efficiency is more likely to endure. The old adage is true in the comparison of competition and cooperation: slow and steady will always win the race.

Competition has its place in society. But it is an easier path for a leader to guide, and the consistency and repeatability of its results are tied to the uncertainty of the next competition. Cooperation is the higher and nobler form of achievement for a leader to guide. It requires artful orchestration, and may bear a higher initial cost, but its results will be consisten and repeatable in the long term.
