Happiness is very subjective.  Happiness runs the spectrum of pure joy down to simple contentment.  When addressing the argument of which provides a deeper level of happiness, focusing on one's own goals or focusing on the happiness of others, it has to be, in reality, a true mix of both.
When one focuses on one's own goals, there is a sense of accomplishment and pride as progress is made.  There is also frustration and self doubt in most cases, along the path towards goals. Few if any accomplishments are attained without struggles. Struggling is not well equiped to meld with happiness.  Yet seeking goals and having hopes, dreams and ambitions do provide happiness. Goals keep one from being bored and restless, when pursued. Even when not achieved, there is generally a sense of well being (part of the happiness spectrum) that comes from working towards a goal.
But the self centered focus of some specific goals leaves out the human connection oftentimes.  We humans are hard wired to be social animals and working on a personal project can feel isolating and lonely. When one focuses on the happiness of others, there is always joy and satisfaction, even when, ironically, the recipient does not display gratitude.  It just feels good to do good.  Giving all of one's attention to others is counterproductive, so there must be a fine line between one's own needs, goals and ambitions, and how much we give of ourselves to make others happy. 
Contrary to the question's asking to make a choice between which option provides more happiness, focusing on one's own goals or focusing on the happiness of others, these are not mutually exclusive ideals.
A goal can be one that includes and benefits others, such as setting a goal to work X amount of hours per week in a food kitchen, or tutoring children for free a few hours a week. Coincidentally, one can make others happy by bringing them into one's goal/project and including them.  If one is learning a new language, they can include a friend or family member to study along with them.  If one has the goal to improve health, one can grow fresh vegetables and herbs and share with others.  
Happiness is not easy to provide a formula for.  It is hard won and tough to keep but achievable when a person is secure in how they live and how they love. Being a good person, a kind and empathetic person, while living a fulfilling life is a decent enough description of how happiness comes to those who live accordingly. 
In closing, I would argue that both ways of seeking happiness are equally important and should be implimented in one's daily life.  Keep busy, make goals and work towards them, help others, and have fun.  Even in tough times, pursuing goals and helping others is eay to do as neither needs to cost anything other than perserverance and empathy.  

//NOTE: I finished writing early, but had proof read and reworded a bit, and felt I said just enough.  So I looked and saw a warning. I did NOT leave the page or go anywhere else, I merely was pleased with the essay I created.  Thank you for this experience!!
