     I believe that people achieve more success through cooperation than competition. The old saying of T.E.A.M. comes to mind, together everyone achieves more. Some people are certainly inspired by competition, but those who are not will shut down rather than compete. This means those people will not have an opportunity to experience success.
     When cooperation is the focus, people want to contribute and participate because the focus is on the value of the entire contribution of the group. There is less fear of making a mistake or being judged for your effort. This allows people to feel more comfortable to take risks and participate actively, as opposed to sitting by quietly or being so intimidated that they avoid engaging. When people feel comfortable to engage and to try more creative approaches to something then they are more likely to come up with multiple solutions or strategies to achieve success, rather than trying to be the first one to be successful and rejecting approaches that won't lead to winning.
     Of course there will always be some people who are competitive by nature and prefer to work alone. Those individuals could accomplish more through competition because they are driven to be the best and to outshine others. For them, their interest in cooperation is not as great and they are not motivated to work with others. The opportunity to be the best will cause them to put their best effort into whatever they are doing and so they will experience success individually. However, I believe that in general, you are going to achieve success for the maximum number of people at work, in your family, or in team sports through a spirit of cooperation. 
     Competition has a place for individual goals or some people at work or in individual sports or contests, but cooperation leads to more success for everyone at work, in a family, or in team sports. When people cooperate they learn to value the contributions of each individual and everyone has a voice. Competitive success is success for one person, but cooperative success is success for everyone. Our goal should be for the greatest number of people to succeed if we want to have the best possible world.
