Throughout human history there have been many instances of obstacles being overcome by human cooperation;  our early ancestors hunted mammoths in groups - a task surely too monumental for any single man to accomplish alone. Rome was not built in a day - nor by a single man, despite what the myth of Romulus and Remus may suggest. Every great man in history - from Alexander the Great to Qin Shi Huang, Charlemagne to Vladimir Lenin - could not have accomplished all that they are credited for without the support of the uncountable masses who threw their weight in behind them. Nearly all progress in the history of human civilization is made possible by cooperation - rather than base competition.

"Base competition" refers, of course, to mere survival. Hunter versus prey are in competition - for one creature to rise above another must fall. It is the way of the natural world - the worm must be swallowed by the bird, the bird by the cat, the cat by the wolf, and when the wolf dies it is consumed by the worm. While some of these animals are capable of cooperation - the wolf doesn't hunt alone, but in packs, it must still compete against its prey in a game of life-or-death. Humans alone are capable of breaking this paradigm entirely - through agriculture and animal husbandry humankind no longer has to compete against other creatures - or rather, there is no longer competion, humans win out every time.

This is because, unlike animals, human society is based primarily on cooperation. Every man has his role to play. The farmer produces the food, the tailor produces the clothes, the carpenter creates the homes, and so on. Everything that humans have created has been because of the high level of cooperation in our societies and made possible by our biology. Without cooperation and the specialization that it allows for, every man would be a hunter and a farmer and a tailor and a carpenter, and so on in an unending state of base survival that leaves no room for intellectual or artistic pursuits.

There have been several instances of this lifestyle being commonplace; the founding of the first American colonies and their westward expansion is among the most recent. While frontier settlers eeked out a meager living in competition with nature, beasts, and the people who were indigineous to the lands that they staked; cities along the east coast grew in relative peace and prosperity. Development of cities in the west didn't come from those self-sufficient, highly-competitive settlers - but from specialized workers from cooperation-rich cities on the coasts. The homesteads and old west towns are long gone, but the railroads the cities that sprung up along them continue to thrive. Cooperation allows for more successful, long-lasting development that remains for future generations while the rewards of competition fade with the passing of time.
