Materialism has become an epidemic that is out of control within our society. It seems like people spend a lot of their time at work making money just to throw it away on materialistic goods once it's payday! It has almost become similar to an addiction. It's a race to see who can have the best available products on the market and to an elite group of people that have unlimited income, it doesn't even matter what the cost is.

Is having things really that fulfilling though? Can a person be happy with their things and items all around them? To an extent, sure. However, true happiness and joy is found more in meaningful interactions and connections with people, not things. People may not truly realize this until they have become so materialistic that they lose everyone around them and become completely lonely. With nobody to share all their fun things with, they can potentially fall into feelings of dispair and isolation. Basically, tangible items can only buy a sliver of pure joy that the world has to offer.

Society needs to be criticized for being too materialistic before it's too late! With more awareness on how out-of-control spending and acquiring goods has gotten it will start to stick with people that they need to take a step back and re-evaluate the bigger picture in life. Awareness is always the first step towards making change, and if we stay quiet about the vicious cycle that materialism is encouraging, then society will continue to spiral downwards in it's overall quality of life.

Change begins to happen with just one person making a commitment to a better life. Imagine if one of the richest people in the world used their money to throw a community event that consisted of zen-like practices that encouraged like-minded people to join them to focus on social problems? It would be like a domino-chain, and other people would want to follow suit and step up to the plate in making the world a better place. It can be scary to give up the comforts of what money can buy, but it also seems scarier that the more materialistic people have become, the more disconnected from society they are truly becoming.

All-in-all, if we don't criticize our society for how materialistic it has gotten, then it's going to continue to seep down to the next generations. Positive human connections are empowering and more fulfilling than what they are given credit. There could be a lot of negative lifestyles going extinct if people really watch how they spend and what they spend and take credibility on their purchases in regards to them being neccessary for life or just a treat or status boost. There's still hope for a global mindset change if we can call attention to this one-track-materialistic existance that has become so normal!


