   Like many other aspects of life I believe that happiness is achieved through a balance of focusing on your own personal goals and focusing on the happiness of others, as well as the betterment of humanity. Many people fail to find this balance and at some point in their life will discover that they are unhappy. As a person who is middle-aged I see many people coming to the realization that they need to rediscover this balance in their lives.

   Women (or the primary caretaker of children in the family) often spend too much time focusing on other people's happiness, particularly their childrens' and their spouse's happiness to the detriment of their own. Typically, after many years of ensuring their family's success and happiness, often when their children have grown, they come to the realization that they have not done anything purely for themselves in a very long time. I am personally at an age where many of my friends with kids are coming to this realization and are either seeking a divorce or embarking on new ventures that cut into their time with their spouses or children. This often disrupts the balance of their families but is an imperative for their own personal happiness. 

  On the other hand, people who have focused too much on their careers, earning money or personal passions often find that they have lost connections with friends and family by putting their work and goals ahead of their relationships. I often see men who focused on work, being at the office and traveling for work have missed major moments with their families and children. Sometimes this happens with people's hobbies as well, when the pursuit of the hobby becomes a priority over everything else. I recall seeing a hospice nurse on social media discussing the things that her patients expressed regret over and it was never that they wished they had worked more.

   I do think it is extremely important to spend time helping people in your community or on the improvement of humanity or the environment. I believe volunteering and working towards values you care about make a person more connected to their community and build friendships with likeminded people. When focused soley on the happiness of your immediate family and friend or on personal goals I believe people can become too self centered and individually minded. Helping others in your community or bettering humanity or the environment help indivduals realize they are merely a part of a whole and that their actions and decision impact other people in many different ways.

Overall finding a balance with personal goals, putting energy towards other people's happiness and bettering the world is the best way to have meaningful relationships, connect with your community and the world, and ultimately find happiness.


