In this esssay we will address happiness and what is more likley to create happiness in ourselves and others. There are many thoughts on what causes peopple to be happy, be it focusing on personal goals or helping others achieve their happiness.
The main question is why does one have to be separte from the other, can some one not be happy doing both. 

The idea that we improve the world or society when we focus on others happiness by helping them is a valid point. A society that puts the needs of others above the needs onf yourself would be an amazing , selfless place to live. But there is something to be said about self achievment. If all of our achievments are shared because someone helped us, will our self worth or lack of independenent achievement affect our happiness. 

There are some that helping others would be a form of happiness but not complete happiness. Self achievment can give a different form of happiness.The joy of accomplishing a long term goal or completing a individual project is no less valid.  Why should one be excluded in lieu of the other. I can feel acomplished in helping others, but there is a feeling of happiness that is achieved when reaching a personal goal on your own as well.

Happiness is selective to each person. Some may thrive in helping others and find their joy in doing so. Others, while they are happy to help, need to acomplish things on their own without the help of others.  True happiness is a state of mind that can not be pigoened holed into one activity or acton, It is a state of mind that each person must reach in their own way, in their own time. We can hope that helping others will always be something that makes everyone happy. We just can't say it is what should nake you happy. Just because it leadg to the greater good does not mean that it is where I find my joy.

In conclusion, to know what makes us truly happy in itself is a feat to be proud of. I know of no one that does not feel a sense of happiness when they help someone. I also know noone that is not happy when they ahave acomplished a great achievment on their own. We should celebrate all things that make us happy for it is not always an emotion we have. The pursuit of happiness if a forever task that we can acomplish wth each othe and on our own.The most importaant thing is that we alway to pursue it.
