I believe that people achieve more success by cooperation rather than by competition. The reason being is that competition can sometimes hurt other people. Competition often causes a divide amongst other people and it affects relationships between friends and family. Competition can cause people to be more focussed on the competition rather than the bigger picture.

Having grown up doing theatre, dance, and choir for most of my life; competition was always there. I often found myself being compared to others. I would often say things like "oh I will never be as good as them" or "I deserve a better role than what I was given". It was a major blow to my confidence that still effects me to this day as an adult of twenty-eight years. It has been a challenge for me in the workforce constantly comparing myself to others. Heck, its not even just happening in the workforces. I find myself comparing myself to others on social media too. Wishing I had a life like other people.

I feel like cooperation with others help a lot more than competition for this reason. If you are put up against someone, you will be to busy fighting. However, if you cooperate with each other; you can operate as a team.  Therefore, you will be much more productive if you cooperate with one another. I have witnessed firsthand that at work, when people are put up against each other; it gets ugly. Very very ugly. 

We must remember not to cause a divide between one another. This country spends way too much time bringing each other down instead of bringing each other up. It really has caused a major divide between everyone.

Now, there is nothing wrong with friendly competition if it is done right. Friendly competition can be very helpful as long as we don't hit below the belt. Like with playing games or playing sports. We need to be careful to not turn it into unhealthy competition though. 

To sum it up, working together as a unit really does make a difference. It gives everyone the confidence that they need. It gives everyone a sense of accomplishment when what they have worked on together has come together. When it comes to cooperation vs competition, cooperation is proven to help people achieve more success. If we continue to unite as one and not compare ourselves to others, we can all achieve our goals and be the successful human beings that we need to be. Thank you very much.

-Mary Ruth Johnson, 9/4/2022 

