Materialism is something modern society judge one another for so drastically, it can really change the opinions of a person in favor or against them. Let's face it though, life is becoming more and more expensive and at some point where is the line drawn between materialism and survival? 
Modern society should not judge one another or criticize each other for placing a need or desire on aquiring possessions and money. 
While some possessions flirt the line between needs and wants, it is also not black and white. If someone lives in a cold state, is it wrong if they buy an all wheel drive vehicle like a truck instead of a cheaper car? I don't believe so, that all wheel drive will assist them in the future in driving through the snow. While more expensive it is not directly a need, nor a want. 
We as a society have accepted hard work as a way to gain respect. While it can quickly become an issue of overworking people, and burn out, it also is a way some feel respected and valued. A father wants his wife to be a stay at home mother, so he works over time and works 60 hour weeks to provide for his family. The outsider looking in on his situation may only see that he works 60 hours every week, and that he drives a moderately nice vehicle, but don't see how his wife is staying at home not bringin home an income, and he is barely able to fuel his vehicle to get to work. 
Also inflation is through the roof these days. To think that people are more focused on items and not survival is a little of the mark. Groceries have become expensive, fuel, vehicles, rent, homes... everything is costing so much more. Yet people in trades, healthcare, they have not been given raises. So before judging someone for what they buy, people should really be understanding that we don't know what people are doing to get their money. Or in what ways the person budgets their money. Maybe that nice watch on your coworker that your judging for buying... maybe they saved for that watch for 2 years. 
While it is easy to sit and judge others, I think modern society should stop worrying about everyone around them and focus on their own life. Focus on your family, your home, what motivates you to work hard, and what you want your legacy to be. 
If a lot of people could afford to not work as much and pour so much energy into work, consuming more resources, I think the real question is, are we producing consumeable needs at a fast enough rate? I think not. 
The items I think we are using too rapidly, are the items like food, and resources needed for survival. And if society thinks were burning through needed resources too quickly, then we should really take a long hard look at who can help fix that. Because judging someone down the street for how many christmas lights they buy isnt going to grow more food. 
As a society we judge on another too harshly. No matter if it is about choices with money, without money, or things that have no effect on another. Everyone should focus on their own lives, and maybe there would be less negative things to judge overall. 
