     Have you ever wondered if today's society is more materialistic than those of the past? This is a topic that has been discussed at length, and yet depending on who you ask, you may get an unexpected answer.
     It's true, the demand on material things has grown. People enjoy having nice stuff. The more money we make, the more things we buy. It's a never ending cycle. But, does this mean we are more materialistic than our previous ancestors? The answer is no.
     If we were to look back over histroy, we would see a pattern. We would see that for centuries, people have been working to improve their lives. These changes could come in the form of items that help improve their living experiences, but also items that bring joy and happiness. It has always been human nature to look for things that make our lives easier. 
     As society has grown, so has our ability to develop and create new items and gadgets. We developed automobiles and found new power sources. We invested in technology and gained cable television. We found the internet at our fingertips without even leaving our homes. Would it be materialistic of people from the past to want these things for themselves if they new that the option to have them existed? Absolutely not.
     Some might argue that the materialism goes beyond wanting these new modern staples of society and say that people only want the latest and greatest items that come with a high price tag, and it's true, some people do look for those attributes. But, this is because society now knows that these things exist. They know that it is an option to own a luxury car or expensive purses and shoes and it is human nature to want the best of something.
     So, while some might say that society has become nothing but a bunch of spoiled, entitled, materlistic brats, I say that society knows it's worth. We do deserve the best in life and it is perfectly ok to want nice things for ourselves. Life is too short not to work hard for things that you love, even if they come with a high price tag. 
