   People are the ensured happiness when focusing on their own personal goals, aspirations, and selves. Witnessing the happiness of others around us through an obscured, current lens forms our view of how happiness is obtained. This is an unreliable view. Happiness is only obtained through an inner focused consious prespective, which is an atribute that is as variable and specific as the entity that it is enriching. 
    
   Even without the phonic capabilities of forming the word "happines" we can witness it in newborns and even the animal kingdom. It is an inherent evolutionarily aspect of all beings capable of laughter for example. This early focus on what makes us happy is a most important factor to personal, cultural, and sociological well-being. Happiness is with us from the begining and what people pursue for most of their lives. 

   There are certain instances where happiness would not be the ideal mode for a person. During psychotherapy we must delve into our most traumatic experiences. This provides useful material in the pursuit of happiness. The idea of existentialism, ebracing all of life would not be suited to one who experiences nothing but happiness at all times. A rainy day will produce flowers, much in the way that other emotions and attributes are healthy for a person. 

   It seems only natural to want what others have. Happiness is pinacle of existance to some. To see someone laughing and enjoying life is only part of their story. If we look closer we will see that there may be factors that lead to this happiness that would not apply to the self. If we determine others happiness to be desireable than ignore the inherent, unique nature of being. It is a difficult task to undertake, but true happiness can only be experienced through a solid understanding of the self and the nature of all aspects of what makes a person happy. 
 
  Happiness is likely in those who treat it as their own. Others happiness is less connected to ours than we may think. 
