All around us, our reality is manipulated by the enticing promise of a better, or enriching reality elsewhere. The issue? This elsewhere is digital. More often than not, the only means of achieving the perfect body, lifestyle, relationship and life is through the digital lense. Even if you have the dream job and dream life, the realism of these things ends when their digital presence begins. Many times, people, especially influencers, check their baggage and humanity at the door of the digital realm in terms of polishing their lives to perfection while still somehow avoiding their true reflections and the insidious things that lie beneath the smooth surface. The entire way someone presents themselves on the internet can dictate how they exist in their real lives, to an insane degree now that the power has been taken away from companies and instead into the hands of anyone with a camera phone.

Some may say that the rise of social media is a good thing, with jobs being created through this avenue both legitimately and through self-employment, however a lot of digital pioneers even admit themselves a few years down the line that the burn out of living a polished lifestyle has caused them distress and damage. These images and videos we see every single day of a perfectly clean home, frequent vacations, the increased perfectionism surrounding things like laundry organization or grocery shopping, can really get someone down when the reality of every life when the camera off is messy and unfufilling to artificial comparisons. This meaning both literal clutter and messy problems that affect their lives deeper tan a skin deep impression. So many people do not like themselves based off how they look in photos and online, however, most people do not look like themselves often due to filters and the like.

As stated previously, the rise of the "micro-influencer", or the new reality of everyone being important on the internet, has both stimulated the economy but also made everyone into their own worst enemy, as well as the climate's. Fast fashion industries are booming while the ocean levels are rising, proving priorities are not straight for many despite having the most information at our fingertips than every before in history. Perhaps this is why we all choose to romanticize the mundane, and make ourselves fulfilled in some way as we know the true reality of our soft underbelly in 2022 is a tender and meek one ready for slaughter.

The bias of an attractive person is also real, as an attractive person is more likely to gain opportunity and therefore a means of proving their abilities despite image and impression. When we dig deeper into what it means to be attractive, there's also the resource gap between affluent and marginalized communities, as those who have to work more have less time, energy and money to put into their appearance, assisting in the cycle of more low income jobs. This is another example of priorities not being straight within the most knowledgeable generation thus far.

With the rise of tiktok, social interaction and momentary stardom is at our fingertips. Having a video go viral is a normal occurance for many, gaining fame overnight and an immense pressure comes with being percieved. The crucifixion of the average person for their looks is a daily occurance in the comments of any youtube video, instagram post, etc. and the pressure we put on ourselves to uphold our own identities under these pressures can cause lasting distress and trauma, if not just a shock to the mind. No one is built to be bullied that intensely for that long, especially children who do not have consent to exist in a lot of this media that their parents upload and profit off of in the current age. Somewhere down the line, they may not want their childhood tantrums on the internet or the drama between their parents but the momentary image of a perfect family, or even the delusional illusion and defense of one, is more immediately satsifying than the promise of an untarnished future.

Summing up this argument, we can circle back to primitive times. Our ancestors of hunter and gatherer tribes would know to avoid brightly colored & adorned foliage, insects and prey as it is commonly known in nature that these colors are posionous. The central nervous system is on high alert when something sparkly, shiny and dressed up walks by. Perhaps we should take this as a lesson and proceed with caution.


