We don't have to do anything other than take thirty minutes a day to scan news headlines, which I do not recommend, to see that the majority of the world's human population is in collective crisis. From mass shootings, drive-by shootings, school shootings, robbery and looting, one tragedy seems to feed off of another in a never-ending stream of violence. This violence, the idea that enters the brains of those who would commit such heinous acts, is the result of a nation glued to screens and feeding off of the images and sound-bites they ingest, in an effort to find some kind of community to heal the deficiencies that prevent them from acting as individuals. People have thrown thinking for themselves and deep thinking away because it is simply easier to take in images and short words than to read and ponder and have meaningful conversations with others.

The mass consumption of short-form articles, social media posts, five second videos designed to grab you until the next one appears, endless and mindless scrolling have effected not only attention and focus, but made impressions on neural pathways and influenced a host of psychological reactions from anxiety to ADHD. People are paying more attention to how someone looks, than what the person actually stands for. People are basing opinions on a flash of a physical or emotion reaction that they get from reading a post and comments on that post, than what those actual words say. People have replaced the ability to think rationally and for themselves, with mob actions and mob thinking. 

We have gone inward and have become isolated because we've spend all of our time scrolling and jumping from one image, one video, one short post, to another. We act out in ways we would never by attacking others' opinions or jumping on bandwagons to shame people publics. And we obtain joy, real joy, from seeing others' falls. Our ability to stop and think before reacting, whether by violent deeds or violent words, has been killed by this need to consume more images, more videos, more social media posts. So, we're onto the next before we've even realized what we've done.

Between people glamorizing criminals (if they're attractive) and their behavior and ignoring what they've actually done to be labled a criminal to the mass cancel culture that is so prevelant today, we will continue to see increases of violence and upticks in people diganosed with psychological conditions if we cannot decrease the consumption of empty words and flashy videos. Rational thinking has been decimated by social media and articles pandering to the pathological nature of how we've trained our brains to only light up when there is constant variety in the words, photographs and videos we consume in short periods of time. We must find ways to promote individual and critical thinking to look at substance and think deeply rather than allow quick images and our assumption of someone's life by those images sway our opinions of the world and most importantly, of ourselves. 

The shiny things are killing us -- quite literally.
