In life we often find that our success comes at the cost of another's. We compete over job opportunities, bonuses, or affections. Why do we so often tear another down to prop ourselves up? Is it really the only way to succeed? That comes down to what we define success as and how our institutions reward us.
Success is usually shown to us as intertwined with aquisition, of homes, money, cars, fine jewelry, and expensive clothing; so much so that many have taken these signifiers as the definition of success itself. These signifiers are obtained through a succession of zero-sum games where only one person can be substantially rewarded even though the work of many were involved in the endeavor. This makes competition seem to be the only valid way to achieve success, but it ignores that the success is only possible with the work of many others who often go unrewarded, or at least underrewarded. Take Elon Musk for example. He is currently the wealthiest person on the planet. He owns multiple successful companies and is often compared to genius fictional characters as their real world embodiment. When you look at his actual successes though they are made up of the work and genius of many others that he then claims ownership of. While Musk manages Tesla he did not mine the litium necessary for the battery, he did not produce the plastic and metal it is made out of, he did not design the car, he did not manufacture the car. All these were done cooperatively by a number of people across the world. This is true for most if not all individual successes, the one claiming credit is just the benefactor of work done by many others cooperating to accomplish a great task. 
Ultimately cooperation is the only way anything succeeds, our entire society only works through the cooperation of every disparate element. The myth of individual genius has never been true. Einstein needed the works of generations of physicists to arrive at his theory of special and general relativity. His theory was only confirmed through months later due to the work of a number of English scientists observing light from a star behind the sun during a solar eclipse. A business requires the work of its employees to succeed financially. An individual today needs the cooperation of an entire society to live a successful life, farmers, miners, programmers, police, electricians, etc. All are necessary. Cooperation is the only way success can be created, in science, in business, and in life.
