I believe most people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals versus being happy because of the happiness of others. If an individual is not happy with themselves and discouraged if they are not meeting their goals or pursuing their dreams, I think it would be very difficult for that individual to be truly happy for the happiness of others. In fact, to me, it is the complete opposite. If things are going well for me and I'm at peace and content with how my dreams and my goals are progressing, then I can share that, spread that and be happy for others who are fulfilling their dreams. 

On the other hand, if life is throwing me a curve ball and I feel like I can't catch a break or achieve what I've set out to achieve, I more than likely would become bitter and jealous of others who are fulfilling their dreams and goals in life. Not saying that I would let that show or let others know that I am jealous but it would be inside of me and more than likely affect me in my approach to persuing my goals and my dreams.

Many people would probably say that this is selfish and that I should want others to be happy and to reach their goals. Putting oneself ahead of others should be rewarding and make one feel good about themselves, and while true, if my life is not going as planned, I would have a hard time getting my happiness from those whose life is going along as planned. 

As a mom, I have always heard a piece of advice from other mothers that you can't take care of your children or parents or friends, if you don't take care of yourself first. If you are unhappy, burnt out, tired, then you don't have much left to give to others. If you are happy, content, reaching your goals, well rested, etc., then it is much easier to help others pursue their goals and to be happy that they are happy.

I do not believe it should be considered selfish for putting yourself first as far as happiness goes. It's more of a need. It helps both physically and mentally. If you can be the best version of yourself, then projecting that onto others just enhances their desire for happiness and for reaching their own personal goals. It's more of a win-win situation, where more people benefit. Laughter is contagious, so happiness is contagious as well. If I am succeeding in life, then I want to share that with others so they too can succeed and be happy. Sharing my happiness or my approach in obtaining that happiness and those goals will make me and should make others take care of themselves and their needs first. This way everyone benefits.

So I believe that true happiness comes from pursuing my dreams and my personal goals and then projecting that success and happiness onto others to hopefully help them reach their goals and dreams and most of all personal happiness. 
