There is one word that has been a hot topic for decades. Is it good? Is it bad? Is it what pushes the world into the future, or is it bringing it to its end? Materialism is more relevant in society than it ever has been. In a day and age when people are being constantly followed around the internet with ads for the brand new thing that everyone wants, its easy to see why people would start to yearn for the finer things in life. Despite this, many people use a lack of materialism, or their ability to avoid indulging these desires, as a virtue they treasure, claiming it puts them above others in some way. This is simply not the truth. While there is nothing wrong with avoiding materialistic aspects of life, there is also no shame in enjoying them.

Materialism is a critical part of the development of new technoligies and the learning of new concepts. These things may seem unrelated on the surface, but if people were not constantly interested in the next best thing, there would be no motivation to develop new and better techology. Cell phones are a great example of this. Comparing a phone from 2022 to a phone from 2000 is nearly unbelievable. How has this gone from a glorified walkie-talkie to a small computer in your pocket in 20 years time? Because of the desire for newer and better things. Without companies fighting for the attention of consumers, we would not see this intense change and progress that we have seen.

Human beings are not unique in their pursuit and collection of items they enjoy. Birds have been known to collect shiny objects, bringing them to their nests, or even to humans in exchange for valuable food. There is no lack of examples throughout the animal kingdom of creatures seeking out happiness through objects. Given this information, it is clear to see that the pursuit of desired objects is not a consequence of modern society, but an innate part of the mind that we are simply indulging. Just as people are not shamed for their desire to seek warmth and the company of others, we should not treat materialistic desires as a bad thing and a consequence of modern society. They are simply another part of our brain that has been there all along

On top of being a natural part of the human mind, materialism is also a large driving force behind the world economy. If everyone were to decide they were no longer interested in owning the newest products, there would be catastrophic effects on the economy. Jobs would be eliminated at a historical rate, and people would be left with no income at all parts of the process, from manufacturing and marketing to transportation and retail stores. Life as we know it would be drastically different, and not in a good way as some might expect. Our world economy is built on the idea that we need products in large numbers to be available readily in stores. Changing this would lead to a major lifestyle shift, even in those that pride themselves in avoiding a materialistic life.

Others may say that there is more negative effects of materialism than positive, due to the impact on the environment and human rights issues around the world. This is a hard topic, however an important thing to keep in mind is that the impact of a company on the environment or the lives of workers is not the responsibility of the consumer. That is solely the responsibility of the company, because if they do not decide to do better, there will be no positive change. Concepts like the carbon footprint have been introduced over time to push the responsibility onto the consumer and away from the large and wealthy corporations, and that simply isn't correct and is a harmful mindset to promote. If we want to really address these issues in the world, we must start by making sure we are putting the responsibility on the correct people. 

Overall, materialism is a term that has been given a bad reputation by people who believe it to be a negative aspect of our lives. That couldn't be farther from the truth. Materialism is what drives the world forward. If people weren't always seeking out the next best thing, we would not be anywhere near as developmentally advanced as we are as a society, and we would not have the things that make us happy. There is nothing wrong with being materialistic, as it is a critical part of the world economy, and brings joy to so many people. We as a society should move away from the notion that materialism is a bad thing, and embrace it as something we all enjoy and need.
