Materialism is a common occurance in most peoples' everyday life.  Almost everyone wants items that they do not have, and sometimes people want the latest and greatest thing just to have it.  It is a strange concept.  The idea of it may be because people think that they must keep up with their peers around them.  So even if they don't necessarily want a new item, they may be pressured to buy something new to not stick out.  Other times, people may want an item to replace something else they already own, but overspend on features or unnecessary luxuries.  Even if someone wants to buy something they do not absolutely need, it might not be fair to simply dissalow someone from using their own money to buy what they want.  Spending money however someone sees fit is simply exercising their freedom of their own individual spending habits.

This may have a higher likelyhood to happen in places where people have higher discressionary income than others.  The logic behind this is fairly simple; people with larger amounts of disposable income could have a higher tendancy to buy things they don't want to need.  On the other hand, people with more limited incomes are probably more likely to only spend money on necessities.  As an example, someone who is rich may purchase an expensive car that costs hundreds of thousands of dollars just to show other people his or her wealth.  Sometimes materialism isn't always about having items that make you happy by themself, but instead they create envy due to other people not having it, or not being able to afford it.

There may be some types of psychological reasons for this type of behavior.  People can often times purchase items to make themselves feel better.  This is known as "retail therapy".  Even if the person doesn't want or need the item, they may buy it anyway for the brief rush of happiness it brings them.  However, this also carries the risk of making the person lose their funds more quickly if they spend above their means.  People can become addicted to may different things, and shopping is no different.  Just like drinking or gambling, shopping can be abused and end up causing more harm than good.  It depends on how the actual person can handle their spending and their impulse control.


Ultimately, being a materialistic person is not beneficial and usually is only full of detriments.   It can reduce a person's money, encourage complusive shopping, and enable narcissistic personality traits to come out.  But it may not be easy to change someone's habits.  Every person is different, and some people can not break free of bad habits as well as others.  Materalism can also taint previously well-meaning events; like turing Chrismas into a consumer shopping-spree that has no real meaning.  Who knows what can or should be done about this issue?  It can be almost impossible to tell the future for anything, especially for an issue like this.   Economies rely so much on the buying and selling of commodities that it can be a risky topic to try and change.
