In the United States, we idiolize the idea of the individual and the self made man who doesn't need anything from anyone.  What if we could better succeed by working together and cooperating with each other instead of competing with each other?  In this essay, I will explore how cooperation leads to better success for everyone than competition does.

Each individual has a unique set of talents, interests, abilties and life experiences.  Instead of pitting each other or groups against each other in a zero sum game, what if everyone could be benefit by cooperating?  It has been shown in capitalism that money and a piece of the pie isn't a zero sum game.  Getting a piece of the pie doesn't leave less pie for everyone else, because what happens is that the pie grows so everyone can get more of what they want.  

I just watched a TED talk about this older woman who demonstrated this concept.  She was a regular person who worked as a cashier in a grocery store.  At night however, she led a group of people who got together and their goal was to help the members of the group achieve their dreams.  One man of the group, who wasn't very attractive wanted a girfriend so some women of the group took him shopping to update his wardrobe, brushed him up on social skills and pretty soon he had one.   The stories get even more wilder than this though.  One woman said that she wanted to go on a cruise, but that she didn't have the money, someone needed to take care of her special needs daughter, and that a man was stalking her daughter so she couldn't do it.  One audience member came up and said that he had just won a free cruise, but couldn't go because it was for one person and his wife didn't want him to go so he gave her a voucher.  Another woman stood up and said that she was a nurse and as part of her job she had to volunteer for 10 days a year to help people so she could watch her daughter.  Another man stood up and said that he was a cop and he would take care of the stalker.  So just through the power of strangers cooperating, people could achieve their dreams.

In summary, although we are told that people are competing against each other and we idolize the self made man, we can achieve much more if we all work together.  After all, each person has unique abilities, connections, and talents that can be utilized to achieve great things.  When we combine everyone's skill, talents, and connections, we can accomplish people's wildest dreams.
