Personal happiness is very complicated subject. There are those who believe that happiness is based off of the fulfillment of your own personal needs, whatever those may be, while there are others who believe that the path to happiness is forged through acts of service and making others happy (or at the very least taken care of). All that being said, I believe that the path to happiness can come from the fulfillment of personal goals. To quote RuPaul "If you can't love yourself, how in the hell are you gonna love somebody else?"

There is a concept while flying: in the case of disaster, put your oxygen mask on before helping others around you. I believe that can be applied to happiness as well. It is difficult to see the forest for the trees and be able to help others succeed in achieving their goals if you're struggling to fulfill your own needs. If you're someone who is prone to anxiety, not having your personal goals met can lead to emotional spiralling and completely block you from being able to complete much of anythng whether it's for yourself or somebody else. 

That being said, there are arguments to be made that focusing on the happiness of others before your own goals can lead to personal happiness. For situations like that, look no further than the doctors who work with Doctors Without Borders who, instead of working in potentially lucrative pracitices in the safety and comfort of their own nations, go to instead work to help the sick in areas that may not have access to much needed healthcare services. They may have a personal goal of having a high end private practice or being a world renowned thoracic surgeon, but instead work to give people the best chance possible at a better, healthier life.

Personal happiness is complicated, and while there are those who find it through helping others, I believe that working on your own personal goals first puts you in a better position to help others achieve the same in the long run. While it may be true that no man is an island, and the happiness of those around us can effect our own happiness, it's also important for us to take heed of our own personal wellbeing before trying to save the world.

