There are different ideas about what makes people happy. Some people think that happiness is a result of trying to acheive their dreams. However, I think that happiness is more likely to come from a focus on helping others, not only on our own desires. 

I have observed this in my own life. When I give my time, effort, or money to help someone, I feel happier and more accomplished. I feel like I have done something worthwhile and increased someone else's happiness, at least for a little while. It also makes me feel grateful for what I have. Gratitude tends to make people happier because they are focusing on what is good about their lives instead of what is hard or unpleasant.

I understand why many people think they should try to acheive their dreams in order to be happy. It's easy to think that if you can just do this or have that, then you will be happy and have no more problems, but this is false. Our happiness can't come only from external things like wealth or fame or even from relationships. It's about how we view our lives. Anyone can see themselves as deprived or as having an abundance of what they need and want, depending on their perspective. Helping others and listening to them can give us a wider perspective. It can show us how lucky we are in our own lives.

If you want to be happy, I suggest doing something nice for someone. It can be as simple as smiling at them or complimenting their outfit or their work, with no ulterior motive. Try it a few times and see how you feel. Better yet, offer to help with something like carrying groceries or washing dishes. You might even end up having a conversation that could bring you both joy.

On a larger scale, giving your time or money to a charitable cause you believe in or working towards the betterment of humanity in some other way can mkae you happy knowing you are helping many more people, including those you don't know. It can provide a wonderful feeling of accomplishment and satisfaction knowing you have improved other's lives.
