 People find happiness in all kinds of ways but to be truly happy, I think it comes from within yorself and how you maintain it. I know that when my family is happy it makes me happy. Also when I achieve a goal or get that credit, it also makes me happy. In my opinion, it depends on the person and what they choose to do. As I stated in the beginning, to be truly happy with yourself, you have to work on it everyday. Obviously, both making your goals happen and making others happy, will or should make yourself happy but those things pass, especially the goals you set for yourself. 
 We shouldn't have to look for something to make us happy, it should come from inside ourselves and to be worked on daily. Think about people who have illnesses like depression and anxiety. How does a clinically depressed person make themselves happy? Usually they can't without help and/or medication but also reaching deep down inside, bringing out the worst and turning things around to make those things better. I can tell you that is something that requires nothing but being honest with yourself and working on being happy one day at a time. It can take weeks, months, and years to reach a simple kind of happy for those people but it comes from within themselves. 
 With that being said, I know that for myself, the happiness of others is more important to me than my own goals. I will be working on goals all my life as most people will, from graduating high school or college, to getting that career you have been striving for. Then possibly owning your home, a new car, and having a family. Goals are something most people strive for all their life but to be able to maintain the happiness of those you love is just so wonderful. To have a connection with people is something that you also have to work on but the rewards of that is overwhelming to me. When your parents say their proud of you, or your boss says you're the best worker, or your best friend says they don't know what they would do without you, means more than most anything, in my opinion. Be kind to those you love, work on your goals but also yourself, and strive to be a person that you love and other's can love also.
