In the 21st century, a world flooded with social media and outside influences acting upon the normal consumer, materialistic and unrealistic views are set upon the minds of people. Materialism, a concept where people want stuff, and they spend their money on those goods, has many negative effects on society, but positive effects on the economy. The question rises, should our society be criticized for being too materialistic? We should be criticized, as people are wanting these goods that they cannot afford, and societal norms revolve around this notion of materialism that is deemed "normal," when in fact, it is only normal for the top percent of earners in the world.

Take Kim Kardashian for example, a billionaire, an influencer, and a fashion trend-setter, someone who millions look up to, follow on social media. People are striving to be like her, having all of the designer bags and shoes, things that bring someone temporary happiness. Normal people work hours and hours, just to be able to afford one designer bag, money of which could be spent on rent, on a car, on someone's family. There are instances of people in the world, people who need to have these designer clothing items, yet they cannot afford a nice place to live. These items, luxury fashion items, the epitamy of the materialistic, social media and influencer controlled 21st century, are a need for some people, yet they cannot afford to pay rent, and they do not have any savings in their bank accounts. It needs to be stressed and reiterated to normal working class people that these items are not a neccessity, but a luxury, obtained by working hard and having an adequate amount of money saved. Kim Kardashian is not someone to look up to for the normal consumer, she is a billionaire, the normal conusmer is not even close to being a millionaire.

What is true happiness? Can happiness be obtained by having a luxury designer bag? Maybe it can, but that is only going to be temporary. Would someone be happy with a Chanel, or Louis Vuitton bag, but a week later, they cannot afford to pay for groceries, or rent? Probably not, they would be stressed out. Having that one bag or that one pair of shoes that the billionaires and the influencers have is not going to bring someone happiness, unless there is something really wrong with them, or they can afford it. Its just a bag, isn't it? The purpose of which is to hold items. This can be produced for a small amount in a factory, a few dollars only, and consumers could pay as little as ten to twenty dollars for a single item that serves the same purpose as the Chanel bag. People spending their money helps the large corporations, whom are making an insane profit off of middle class, working class people, spending a month's worth of their salary on one item, an item that is not even used that much. This is not a great way for the economy to work, as people are losing money, corporations gaining money. Even though that is how the economy works, it hurts the consumer tremendously.

The consumer can function without these luxury, materialistic items. The only want, and "need" for these items is that the consumer sees influencers, celebrities and wealthy individuals with these items, and they feel a need to fit in with a social class they are not part of. The norms of society need to change in order for these middle-class individuals to be happy and functional within their social classes, with them not having the constant want and need for more, for things that they cannot afford. However, this model of consumers wanting the need for these items that they cannot afford gives these luxury companies a tremendous amount of business, helping them succeed. This however, does not benefit anyone but the few people working at these companies. The every-day consumer is hurt by this drive for materialistic goods.

In conclusion, the want and need for materialistic goods does not help anyone except for the companies producing these goods. Consumers are hurt, not only financially, but by a mental need to have things that they cannot afford, as they believe this is the only way for them to fit into the 21st century society. Well, what can society do about this? Not really anything, as the rich are always going to have these goods, since they can afford them comfortably, but something needs to happen so that middle-class individuals know that this is not normal, spending thousands on one item is not normal, and the only way that this could change is if no middle-class people purchase this item, which is insanely unlikely.
