The key phrase is "don't judge a book by its cover" but far too often the cover is the only thing people care about, and that gets amplified when we think about our favorite celebrities, politicians, and other "important" figures. However that not only applies to people but to the products various companies promote via ads and throughout social media and whatnot. The real reality is that although we saw we prefer the inside, we focus too much on the outside and get hurt as a result of that.
So when you think of who is the most successful and who do people look up to the most, you think of people like the Kardashians or Ariana Grande or the Rock maybe. All these rich and famous people carry a persona of being better than the average person whether it be due to their influence, status, wealth, or fame. And far too often what these people do is held up as the gold standard, which is cruel and disgusting in many ways. When a Kardashian sister puts up glamour shots on her Instagram that are perfect, what does it tell the insecure young girls looking up to her? Well, it says that they're beautiful and you're not, which will drag on these young girls' self-esteem and lead to much bigger issues down the line. For someone like the Rock, the standard is flipped where young men might feel insecure about themselves given how strong and muscular he is. The ideal reality that any of these celebs create are impossible to follow but many people still try to emulate them including whatever viewpoints they hold.
But it's not just celebrities that bring about these insecurities. It can include ordinary people that know how to use Instagram filters properly, that know how to edit their bodies and faces to look flawless and who only showoff their perfect glam lifestyle. Those "normal" people may be even more dangerous with the rise of social media as it allows normies to attain celeb status out of almost nothing. As long as you look good, act the part, know the right people, etc. then you too could become famous, and because normal people depend on their followers, then there's a heightened risk to said followers of those regular people that become famous outta nowhere. I know I'm rambling but that's the jist of it. It is sad that talent doesn't get rewarded as much as it used to and this will only get worse as young people today grow up with social media from the start.
So with all that being said, what are the effects of unattainable looks on a celebrity or internet celebrity's followers? Well they aren't good. At best younger people will feel worse about themselves and judge themselves harshly, and at worse the negativity will build and build and potentially even lead to suicide attempts or suicide itself. When you're young it doesn't take much to push you off the rails, however these negative feelings don't only pertain to younger people. Adults place importance on things that often aren't that important. If someone looks the part, then they fall for the trap just as easily. This is common with politics in particular, where someone who pretends to be tough and strong, gets portrayed as the ideal standard even though in reality they're the opposite of what they pretend to be.
We place too much emphasis on what the books shows and too little on what's inside and the statement "don't judge a book" applies now more than ever. In a world where everything can be twisted and manipulated, we really have to keep our guard up though what we should be doing is fixing those wrongs. The world would be a much better place if we saw the inside first because although lots of things look beautiful on the outside, the internals could be extremely poisonous.
