    Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. In our society, there is no way to survive if you are not materialistic. If you are not dressed in the best clothing, driving the best car, or using the newest phone, it is hard to get ahead in this world. One could criticize modern society for being materialistic but where would that get them?

    While it would be nice to not be materialistic, it is an important part of our society today. Everyone goes to work to make money to buy things to make life more comfortable. Unfortunately, comfortability now means being able to have the best things and not just the neccesary things. If you cannot provide the best things for yourself, your spouse, and your children, are you really thriving? This can be seen with many reports to child and youth services. If a child were to arrive at school consistently dressed in dirty clothing, chances are a report would be made on the parents. Another example would be going to an interview. If you do not show up to an interview looking your absolute best and like you are somebody already, chances are you will have a harder time getting the position. 

Survival is often about acquiring possessions which could be considered being materialistic. Many survivalist shows are about how people gather and store items to help them survive. Having more clothes, more food, more comforts, will help anyone survive longer in any situation than others who do not. The more things that someone collects, the more situations they will be able to overcome. Therefore, in a sense, being materialistic could lead to better survival rates. Someone who does not worry about collecting things and acquiring possessions may encounter situations that they are not prepared for. 

   It could be argued that modern society should be critized for being materialistic because if society as a whole were to stop being materialistic then everyone would be able to get by far easier and have more discretionary income. However, human nature is competitive. People will always compete to be the best, do the best, and have the best. Therefore, critizing being materialistic is a futile battle. People will always be materialistic to some extent and that will never go away no matter how much they are criticized for it. Competion is so important that people will always strive to win. Often times, winning is shown in the form of a nice watch, new car, or big home. That is how people in modern society show their status. 

  Another arguement that could be made for criticizing being materialistic is that by being critical, materialistic people are less likely to continue being so materialistic and in turn free up supplies for others. The supply of any given product would be higher if less people were collecting it. By decreasing the demand of the product, the price of the product would in turn decrease. However, by decreasing demand, the supply would eventually decrease as well and the benefits from the low demand would be overturned so that supply and demand always stay in check.

   The world would potentially be a better place if modern society were not so materialistic but that is just not how things work. People have been and always will be attached to making money to purchase nice things. Collecting things is viewed as a hobby, shopping as a fun activity, and looking the best and having the best as a measure of ones success. Besides having the best of the best, it is important to have things for survival. The more that someone can 'collect' the more they are prepared for whatever may come their way. Criticizing anything is usually a waste of time. Criticizing modern society for anything is certain to get you nowhere. There is no reason to waste your life worrying about things you cannot and will not ever be able to change. 
