How does one get ahead in today's society? Much debate has ensued due to this simple question: Do we need to stomp on the head of our coworker to get that promotion? Do we need to work well with everyone we come across, no matter the situation? Cooperation or competition? Which is the better way to find success today? While there may be no objectively correct answer, based on my experience and perspective, I believe that a strategy leaning on cooperaiton is the best way to achieve success.

Let's be a little dramatic for a second. Look at the major wars and battles that were fought in history. What were they centered around? Jealousy, hatred, destiny, righting preconceived wrongs, etc. Competition with people next to us has breeded the darkest times of our Earth's long history. Many were the days where we looked at another person differently and felt like we needed to do anything to get ahead of them. Many were the days where we saw a fellow student or person as competition to advancing in school programs or nabbing that next promotion. Competition outside of sports has led to some incredibly vicious moments and proves to not be the best way to find success.

However, cooperation is the most useful strategy for finding success today. How often are you put into a group of people you don't know or work with global teams and need to achieve a common purpose? How will you be successful if your focus is to "beat" the other people or be more impressive. Research shows that when we cooperative, ideas and energy flows. I can think of many meetings where I am gathered with my team and we all get along really well. Those teams have achieved success rarely seen when I am "competing" with people I should be getting along with. When we get along, that shared purpose or goal is easier to achieve. Think of things like global warming, something that is plaguing the world right now. How do we expect to see success when we can't agree with people around the globe? Solving this issue requires precise cooperation and won't be solved unless we find that. Many, many issues follow the same pattern of not being solvable until we cooperate with those people involved in the process.

I can see the argument where competition puts us on high alert and makes us our best selves. It activates the fight or flight that is within us. Think of all the competitions in sports and how that competition breeds elite sport. I will counter that by saying that some degree of cooperation is still needed. Whether it be with the actual team you are with or with a coach, etc, there is always some cooperation needed there. I'm not saying competition doesn't have its advantages, but for the majority of problems, success can only be achieved through cooperation.

I can go on about how cooperation has led me to where I am today and how I think it is the best way to find success. But I want to leave off with saying this: Don't you feel better when you work together? Service projects, team goals, all of this is made better when you achieve it together as a group. The less we see ourselves as individuals and more as a team, the better off we will be as a society.
