We move through our days, constantly absorbing and consumming information and images. We take it in and process it, incorporating it into our perception of the world. As people we are constnatly seeking to make meaning out of things, whether actions, images, or symbols. What can we trust to tell us what is true, real, or accurate? We tend to trust our physical senses such as our sight, and expect that our perception is accurate and in accord with reality. However, as society has evolved and advanced over the centuries, appearance has become a complex issue and "what you see is what you get," does not always ring true. In our current society, people are being too affected by images and impressions that they are experiencing particularly through social media and marketing experienced in daily life. These images are not necessarily accurate portrayals of what they purport to image, and their influence whether subtle or blatant is actively shaping people. 
It is no secret that marketing and social media are extremely dependent on crafting curated images and brand identities in order to drive sales. It is an ever growing industry, and the precision with which they can direct curated images and impressions to consumers is really complex. It is interesting that on social media sites it is called a "feed" because it truly is like being served a diet of images like food. 
On a daily basis, most people will passively be exposed to hundreds of advertisements, whether through social media, email, radio, billboards, stores, etc. The sheer amount of images that we have to sort through as we go about our daily life is astonishing. When the volume of images is so large, our tendancy is to almost ignore them but in a sense that we are not taking the time to really evaluate each one. This results in our passive consumption or acceptance of the impressions these give to us. 
As a society, with ever connectedness being such a part of daily life, our perceptions of people are aboslutely influenced by the images and impressions that they give of themselves, and that others give of them. In online interactions, particularly with strangers, people can be swayed to act entirely different than they would if they viewed the people as actual persons and not just curated images. It is a reduction of our humanity. 
Even with our relation to people we know, the images they project in an online presence, can affect the way we preceive them and interact with them in real life. 
Another way that people are to affected by images, is that there is a constant need to reassess one's own identity and value based off the images of others around you or what society is promoting as the goal. Can you imagine that not long ago, many people barely even had a mirror to check their looks in, and maybe later on a photo or two. But now? Barely minutes go by between selfies, video chats, mirrors in the bathroom, the car etc. Minute by minute, you are being told what looks good or not, what is cool or not, what is attractive or not. Images both of others and ourselves shape how we go throughout our day and what our minds are processing all the time. 
It would be hard to under emphasize the impact of images and impressions on people today. It is impossible to deny the omnipresence of visual media in most of the world's daily existence. This has been trending in this way for decades and it shows no signs of slowing down. In order to truly consider the impact, it will be first necessary to become aware of the images and impressions that are shaping your own life, and the culture as a whole around you. Then you can move towards evaluating whether that impact is or can be for good. 


