Helping others will ultimately and dramatically help you direclty as you pursue your goals and dreams. Many Sages from many Cultures and Civilizations have said that "It is Better to Give Than to Receive". There is always some truth to in the sayings of the Wise.

I am a firm believer in collaborating with others to achieve any goal or any dream the individual, the individuals or the group may have. This is the best way to get some great ideas, get practical help with tasks and milestones.  This collaboration is what drives us to do better for them, for the group and for ourselves. It creates accountability for all but especially for us, the helper.

Some may say that we need to pursue our dreams and goals first and then help others. This is the "Me Culture". It does work. But the "We Culture" not only works but it creates even bigger and better results. Innovation is improved, Synergy is produced and motivation is created and sustained by all.

Those that say that we must take care of ourselves first and foremost are missing the point of how and why our current Civilation and Civilations in the past have been created and have prospered and existed for thousands of years. The collective is stronger than the individual in all aspects. No exceptions.  There are some differences in groups and those differences will create some friction but the disagreements are also the stepping stones toward something bigger and better.

Walking alone toward your dreams and goals is a silent and lonely journey. It will also take you longer to get there and there will be fewer people around you to help you celebrate your achievments. 

I for one have Big Dreams and set Big Goals. I have done that several times in my past. I have always done better by helping others achieve their Big Dreams and their Big Goals and along the way learning a lot from helping them. It also created strong bonds and a good team that would later come into play when I pursued my dreams and my goals.

Our energy is like a boomerang. You throw it in front of you or to the side of you and it will come back to you after it rides "the wind of those you are helping and have helped".

I had a Big Dream of moving to Colorado to live and work there for at least two years. I had helped some of my friends with some of their goals and dreams before I set out to achieve mine. One of them was my college roommate. We were close, and still are. I had helped him through and during our college years. He remembered all my help and that I never asked for anything in return. I did not even have to ask him for help when he offered me a lot of help getting ready for my big move to Colorado. There were others along the way that were also instrumental and supported me through their encouragement, their practical help such as packing or selling or donating some items.  I had also helped some of them and some were friends, others were family members and still others were simply aquiantences.

Together, all of the people I had helped before helped make my move to Colorado easier. It wasn't easy, it was just easier. I will never forget their help, their encouragement and their support. Several of them came up to visit me in Littleton, Colorado. They stayed with my, I took them Snowboarding/Skiing, sightseeing etc.

I have found through personal experience and by observing life around me that the Sages were and are still right. "It is Better to Give Than to Receive." This can be applied to any and to all parts of our lives.

People are more likely to be happy when they do both. They focus on their personal goals and on the happiness of others. This will always create a Win/Win...
