Images and impressions definitely have a large effect on people. Whether it is a product or a person, most everything and everyone wants to appear in the best light possible. The society we live in today promotes beauty and intelligence, and looks definitely matter. 

Consider a politician. Very rarely do they appear how they would look if they were just home for the day. Their clothing, their grooming, the vehicle, and everything else that is associated with them promotes a successful look. Even when they are trying to appear down to earth, they are still choosing the best clothes, hair styles and other things to convey success. 

The reason for this is evident if you think about it. Do you want the person who will make decisions that affect you to look like they cannot even manage their own lives? Most people will answer no to this. You want someone who has a lot of success in their own lives so they can successfully make the right decisions for things that affect you in your own life. 

The same is true for products that you purchase. You want to spend your money on the best product rather than an inferior one. In order to make their products look the best, companies will use images and impressions to stand out in front of the competition. Consider if you have two options. Option A has bright and appealing images on the packaging. Option B has dull and boring images on the packaging. Which one will capture your  attention the most? Which one will you discard without a second thought? Images and impressions definitely have a say in which product most people will purchase. 

Is this fair? It depends on your own personal views. Not everyone has the looks to be a professional model. Not every product will match the images on the packaging. Not every politician will have the morals or intelligence to counter just a good appearance. A person with a better record, a better ability, or a better personality will always get the promotion, the job they are qualified for, or a number of other things because of appearances.

We are responsible for this though. As a society, we gravitate to beauty and success, even if both are not the reality of the situation, product or person. We are training our children to be this way too. Instead of looking deeper than just the first appearance, we are buying the entire package without further insight. Because of this, images and impressions do have too much of an effect on a person. On the other hand, there are some images and impressions that are true to a person or product, so we cannot completely discount them! The best way to approach any situation where images and impressions are concerned is to use discernment, knowledge and perhaps even some investigation and research to make sure the reality matches what is shown.
