      I agree that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. I feel this way because people are becoming much more accustomed to advertising which is done in creative ways, people are being swayed by how merchandise looks in stores and people in politics being so charismatic that they seem too good to be true. This makes us think they are more important than they really are.
      First, advertising is becoming so realistic, it has too much of an effect on people. For example, in Times Square, they are experimenting with 3-D billboards. They advertise for action movies that seem super cool and creative. It makes you want to see the movie, but then when you see the movie you realize it is actually not that good at all! But you saw it because that billboard was so engaging.
     Next, merchadise has become very appealing in stores and make the content seem better than it is. For example, Doritos have new packaging that looks great. It makes the package look dynamic and something you would want to try in order to taste how the packaging looks. Then you realize it is too spicy and you do not like the material at all. It is a shame that the packaging made it look so appealing.
     Another aspect is politicians. Some politicians, even some who were elected President, seem too good to be true. They act like they know everything, and their charisma takes them far. People attach themselves to them. However, once they are elected, you realize these people are incapable of serving office. It is a shame this is so, since we should have more knowledgable elected officials.
    In conclusion, I think images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. I feel this way because people are becoming much more accustomed to advertising which is done in creative ways, people are being swayed by how merchandise looks in stores and people in politics being so charismatic that they seem too good to be true. This makes us think they are more important than they really are. It is crucial for consumers to look beyond images and impressions and form their own opinions overall. 
