In our current society, it seems that image and appearances is key. People and organizations place a great deal of importance on the way themselves or their products are presented as opposed to actually living up to the hype. Politicians will do their best to look sharp and tell people everything they want to hear, just to secure votes. Companies will put all this effort into making eye-catching advertisements and promotions for what they hope will be a hot new product, just to make a sale. Image is at the forefront of it all. 

Far too often, the public buys into it all. Hook, line, and sinker. People take far too much of this at face value purely because of how well it's presented, even if the end result is disappointing. The general public is too greatly affected by image and presentation and do little to actually assess quality before buying into it.

We see this a lot in politics. Whenever elections come along, be it for local government or on the federal level, politicians will go out of their way to make themselves look fantastic. They invest a great deal of effort into glowing advertisements and giving huge promises that they know people want to hear. The result? An influx of votes come election day. However, how often or these figures actually able to deliver on the promises they make, and how often do those same people that proudly endorsed and voted for them come back later and express their regrets? Too often, that's how.

Another space where presentation and impressions impact people too greatly is in the product market. We see this a lot with technology, since it's a particularly hot market. Corporations look to push new products regularly. You'll see advertisements online and in stores touting these new products with innovative features and groundbreaking technology. A month after, these products are failing to sell and being heavily discounted, despite claims by the companies behind them that they were bound to succeed. 

Some may see all of this and say, in regards to products for example, that products made by big companies that have struck gold in the past are more likely to succeed. A good example of the contrary could very easily be Meta. They may have had success with products like Facebook and Instagram, but their most recent big  idea - "the Metaverse" - has largely failed to become the entity that was promised when it was first announced. So much effort was put in by the company to sell the idea of the Metaverse, with colorful advertisements, celebrity endorsements, and extremely bold claims. As of now, however, Meta Quest sales and overall Metaverse-related interactions are no better than any other virtual reality-0riented product. So much invested into the advertising and image of a product that ultimately failed to deliver.

The general public definitely places far too much importance on something's presentation than its actual content. Far too often, people are disappointed, even though they could've spared thmselves that disappointment by simply doing some research beforehand. Don't pull the trigger on a product just because you like its design or its packaging. Don't buy tickets to a concert for someone you've never been to see before. Look around, see what other people like you have experienced with these things. Don't blindly vote for a politician because of a promise they made. Look up their history, and how successful they've been before. It all just goes to show that it doesn't matter how nice something looks if its quality isn't on par with its looks.
