   I have heard it be said many times that the best way to succeed at your career is to find something you like, something that makes you happy, and to do it well.  It is hard for many people in society to do something like this.  For me, however, it came naturally from an early age to help others, human and animal alike.  I discovered that  is the ultimate way for me to receive happiness.  Although I grew up in a very wealthy area, money was never important to me.  I never cared about a career that would pay well.

My other family members, my husband and my friends all chose professional careers.  They were all successful to varying degrees and all made good salaries.  In my opinion, they were trapped in the American Dream.  Once you're making good money, it's hard to leave your career behind in search for happiness.  I can safely say my father's job didn't make him happy, but he was financially very successful.  That was the driving force behind his career.  I found that to be true of pretty much everyone I've known with a successful career.  I had tried many different jobs myself, but all were draining and boring.

Since a very young age, what made me happy was to care for others.  I was bringing home stray animals before I ever entered grade school, and my earliest memory of reaching out to someone in need was when I met an elderly woman who was recently widowed.  She was admittedly lonely.  I saw her walking home from school in the second grade.  I started to make a point of it to visit her regularly and did so for a long time.  The happiness I felt knowing I helped her made me happy.  I found opportunities to do something like this all throughout my school years.  For a few short years, I worked in stock brokerage firms after high school, but no matter the money and the freedom that it brought, I found myself watching the clock daily for the day to end.  I found the work boring and draining.

The first time I had a very successful career, I went from being a stay at home mom for 20 years to making almost a six figure salary within two and a half years.  It came naturally to me because I was doing what I loved.  I had started an animal rescue and had everything from livestock down to chipmunks.  My children's friends would love to come to my home.  I also always had a heart for special needs people.  Just out of the blue one day, purely by chance, I found an advertisement for a mom who was looking for weekend respite care for her special needs daughter in her 30s.  I started to care for her on the weekends.  The joy of helping her was so fulfilling that I decided to look for another client.  My only prerequisite was that I could only accept people into the home who loved animals.  I combined my love for my rescue animals with my passion for helping special needs adults.  My animals were very therapeutic for them.  I became successfull in no time and had to start to turn down customers because I just had too many.

I am 59 now, and I have friends reaching retirement age.  They have their sights set on enjoying their freedom.  I, on the other hand, am prepared to continue my passion only to a lesser degree now.
