You know the saying, "Never judge a book by its cover"? Who knows who said it originally, but it's very popular. Well, that is valid for everything and everyone you meet, we should not be judging a "book" by its cover. but our first instinct is to judge. On the outside, people/things/etc can look beautiful, it can say the most beautiful things, but what is on the inside is completely different. The prettiness plays a role in what we choose, and sometimes the prettiness does not correlate with greatness. 

If you were to go to the store and walk down the cereal aisle, would you choose a plain brown box with a name, or a box that has a picture of the cereal and the name standing out in colors? I, personally, would choose the colorful, less boring box. It would catch my eye and I would want to try it. Simpleness can be better, but when it comes to things we buy, or people we meet, we tend to take our impression seriously rather than getting to know the person/object. 

If you were to go on two dates, one date was wearing jeans and a tshirt, but the second date was wearing a nice shirt with dressy pants, who would make the better impression? The person wearing nice clothing. In reality, the person that is very simple could be incredibly sweet, funny, etc.. the perfect package of what you are looking for, but because they didn't come all dressed up, then maybe we wouldn't give them the time of day. A lot of people like to say that it's what is on the inside that matters, but we don't always follow that. A part of us still look at the physical properties of a person. How many times have we seen a severly obese person dating someone skinny and muscular and wondered, "what does he/she see in them?" We don't think, "oh wow, they look happy" or anything of that sort. If we see a Hispanic male with an obese woman, people think, "Oh, he just wants a visa" or if we see a young lady with an older man, people think, "she just wants his money when he dies". We JUDGE. We see what is on the outside and judge a person. I am guilty of it, everyone is. We may stop ourselves eventually, but that is the majority of people's first though. 

Impressions seriously play a huge role on how we see people. One easy, and common, example would be that depending on how a person is dressed, we might be more likely to believe them. A lot of this is caused by stereotypes. A nice, well-dressed person will seem like someone educated and well off when it comes to money. If we see someone with clothing that may not fit and is dirty, we might think the person is poor, or depending on the dirt, we may assume they are homeless. Impressions are everything!

We could argue that maybe impressions don't play a role, people may say that it's our intuition, or something along that line, but really it's just what we think. To view the opposite, we could say that we just really like a person, or product. We could prove this type of thing by hiding the packaging. Going back to the cereal box, if we are presented with two clear bags with two different products and we were to choose the the box that was colorful, we could prove that it wasn't due to our impressions because we had never even seen the box. It's hard to prove this point with people though. It isn't really possible to not meet someone first, unless you are blindfolded, which isn't ideal and no one will want to do. We could also do a similar exercise by pouring a generic brand of soda and the name brand of soda and then trying both. If we like both without knowing what the  actual difference is, then we would show that we are not judging based on the can, but rather the actual taste. 

Images and impressions definitley play a role in how we see people. We may not want to believe it, but it is human nature to choose the more colorful option, the option that stands out and grabs our attention. Another last example proving this is the super bowl ads. There are hundreds of ads that play, but we remember the ads that stand out to us. Whether it's a commercial with a great meaning that wanted to make us cry, or a commercial that we find hilarious, we tend to remember these more than any of the more "bland" commercials. By grabbing our attention, we are more likely to remember what the product or person is. Movie trailors and music video previews are this way too. They show what will grab our attention and the parts that will want us to WANT to see more. Marketers aren't going to show a clip where the main actors are having dinner, or showing some sort of mundane task. They're going to show someone about to get killed, or kidnapped, or simply anything that will make us want more. 

Overall, images and impressions play a huge role in our preferences, and it's just human nature. It's normal to gravitate towards things that are "fun" and things that make us want more. We like the thrill and we like the satisfaction. There's just something about feeling satisfied that helps with some sort of craving within us. It tends to be our first thought, and it may take some work but it is possible to change how we think. It just takes work. 
