I believe that materialism can be split into two distinct realms: necessary materialism and frivolous materialism. If you take away the necessary aspects, things like aquiring food, water, shelter, or basic clothing, you're left with something that society should absolutely be criticized for. Frivolous materialism is one of the many things that is making the rich richer, the poor poorer, and increasing the gap between the middle-class and the "elite." People should think about their frivolous purchases much more carefully than they currently do.

Take for example a pair of designer shoes. The cost of materials to make said shoes cost maybe $5, a fraction of the $300 price tag. You're paying for the name on the shoes, not for the shoes. Why do people do this? I'm not sure because  I'm not one of those people, but it seems like people spend money just to "flex" or impress others. Sure you might feel good buying something expensive, but when you're 55 and can't retire because of all the Yeezys you purchased in your 20's, will you be happy then?

How about buying things on Amazon? If you really need something, I can understand, but there are people who buy things on a whim, not thinking about the cost. The cost associated with Amazon orders not just includes what you pay, but also includes the environmental toll each order takes on the planet. Yeah, you can order toilet paper on Amazon, but if it has to be shipped across the country in a carboard box, maybe it's bettter to just drive 2 minutes to your local store and just buy it yourself. 

Everyone needs a new cell phone once in a while right? Yes. This is a fact, but do people need a new cell phone every time a new iPhone hits the market? No! You're spending almost $1000 for what? A phone with nearly the same specifications as the one you're getting rid of? Come on. 

Materialism is a necessity, but frivolous materialism is not. Buying things for clout or to impress others isn't impressive, and it's taking a toll on our environment and lining the pockets of the rich and the elite. If you really want to buy something expensive, think about how you'll feel in 5 minutes, 5 days, or 5 years regarding the purchase. If it's justifiable, then absolutley buy the product! If it's something you're buying on a whim, then maybe take the time to reconsider your purchase.
