There is much irony in everyone chasing something that promotes negativity. We oftentimes view materialism as superficial and associate bad character flaws to those that enjoy the practice of frequently spending money and purchasing expensive items for your own comfort and happiness. Or on the flip side, some may view it as an expression of oneself. Regardless of how it is viewed by the majority, materialism promotes an unhealthy lifestyle and stunts societal growth in  many ways and should thereby be criticized.

Materialism usually starts out with humble beginnings, purchasing things you need, but this process quickly tricks your brain into thinking that you "need" nice things. While no one is to blame for wanting nice things, it creates a form of "flex culture" in society where people are constantly comparing themselves to each other and trying to outdo one another in their physical appearance or image. This culture of constantly comparing is what poisons many people's minds and prevents society and individuals from truly being happy, as their source of happiness comes from a relativistic view of their surroudings. We can see everywhere around us that most people are less happy because everyone else around them seem happier, wealthier, more likeable, more social, and the list goes on and on. It might therefore be possible to conclude that people would embrace themselves more and experience a more profound sense of happiness if they did not prioritize materialism.

One might argue that materialism promotes self-expression and is a natural way for people to communicate with each other what they like and don't like. This might be true on a very superficial level, but self-expression goes so much beyond the external appearance. One of the main priorities of materialism is to be set apart or esteemed in a higher regard. That is not self-expression, that is creating an illusion or mask or who the individual really is on the inside. Self-expression is truly found when humans can communicate and interact qualitatively with one another, not when they wear or possess things of higher value. Self-expression comes out in how we love and care for each other, rather than ourselves and our image and possessions. Materialism goes against this way of thinking and promotes the idea that one should only care and buy things for oneself. 

While there may exist a healthy balance in caring for oneself and the people around us, materialism only complicates this and makes it harder to truly care well for the very people we can effectively love around us. Rather than seeking to find this balance, imagine how much healthier society would be if the emphasis was on helping and uplifting others instead of ourselves. People would obviously and radically be happier and fulfilled in every way if we could all just think beyond ourselves and what we possess. Materialism at its core goes against humans helping each other and only seeks to grow one's own status and image. This is why materialism is and should be criticized and definitely not be promoted in our society.
