Competition versus cooperation is a quandry that most parents face when trying to guide their children and how to gauge success. Do we want our children to work as a team or shine as a sole winner? It is a real question that every person must address in their life. Is it better to be a good teammate or succeed on one's own?

Sports is a great example of how working together as a team can create success but also individual sports can show one's true gifts. Parents often sign their children up for team sports, and often at a very young age. Team sports are a great way to help your child learn to work together with other teammates and work towards the goal of winning. It is also a great way for your child to start making friends and learn how to be a friend. At the same time, as parents, we want our child to do well on the sports field. Often, parents talk about how great team sports are, but then bash the athletic ability of other kids on the child's team. Usually at this point, the parent starts to look around for better teams for their child to join. Many times, on the better team, maybe their child's athletic ability is not as high as they though it was.

Cooperation skills learned by playing on a team sport teach your child to work with other teammates to achieve a goal. That skill is useful in school and later in their work life. You always can't say every thing that comes out of your mouth and need to learn how to be a good teammate and supporter. Cooperation teaches your the skills on how to work with others. You will learn how to address different people in different manners. All should be treated fairly, but maybe one person only responds to positive reinforcement and another only responds to urgent deadlines. Working in a team will teach you skills regarding how to deal with different personalities.

What if you don't want to learn each person's quirks? Maybe you would do better working on your own. Competition is great for pushing a child to achieve goals on their own. However, solo competition also means that your child will not always win. No one always wins. So competition is very useful in teaching your child how to lose gracefully. That seems to be something that has been lost in the current world.

So which is better competition or cooperation? Each has its attributes but I believe that competition is will serve people better. When one is working in a team, there seems to be always one person who doesn't pull their weight and one or two people that do the bulk of the work. If the team succeeds, everyone gets credit even though everyone didn't pull his or her weight. It may not be a big deal in a little league baseball game, but in the work environment when people are taking credit for other people's work, it can be a big deal, especially when salaries and bonuses are on the line.

Learning how to compete at a young age and depending on oneself is critical for success as one gets older. Sure, it is important to be able to work with others, but ultimately, one can only depend on oneself. If you accomplish something on your own, there is such a sense of pride that comes with that. There is also pride with working with others, but solo work means you did it yourself and any rewards are solely yours.

Be a great teammate and cooperate with other, but ultimately, pushing yourself and competing will get you where you want to go and the pride that you got there on your own.
