People nowadays have it way too easy. From being able to walk down the street to grab a bite to eat, to being able to drive a distance to visit their family, modern human beings nowadays are spoiled with the conveniences of life. I believe we, as humans and as people, are too materialistic and hyperfocus on money and items to possess rather than living simply and focusing on the little things that make us happy. Modern civilization is carried heavily by what we percieve that others have, and by doing so, our happiness and kindness as a whole is sapped away. Alongside that, we are ruining our planet with our energy consumption and waste, destroying the future for our next generations to come. Therefore, let's toss aside our favorite dress and shoes for a moment and get into why we are so wasteful nowadays. 

Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Ticktok, and Reddit -- all are social media platforms which one may easily access at a flick of a finger. Just by picking up our phones, we may access what our neighbors and friends have been up to. We devour social media so much that scientists and researchers are always pushing out articles about too much screentime and are always emphasizing how we should place them down every now and then and live outside the cyber world. Social media has a big impact on who we are as individuals nowadays. Being able to sit down at any point in our day and key in on what our neighbors are choosing to show us has been proven to have terrible effects on us as well. One may see a neighbor taking a fancy vacation in the Bahamas, while an old high school alumini has a brand new 2022 car, and their child has turned one years old, and they're having the most perfect birthday party, more grand than you may ever have for your own child. This reasoning may lead you to want more, just like they have, and that's what social media does to us. 

But, one may ask themselves, what does social media have to do with materialism and happiness? By looking on towards what you don't have, your happiness may be drained away. Just look at how the most popular vloggers on Youtube show sucess--some people choose to live through watching these videos. Having the means to possess what others do not is not available or accessible for a lot of people. Some people may not even own a house or land due to how much they have to work, yet how little they actually make goes into bills and apartment fees. It's hard to argue that too much social media isn't bad, but I firmly believe cutting it down to the minimum would have a thorough effect on general happiness in our population. 

So after viewing your high school associate's perfect life on Facebook, you may decide to head into town to go to your local McDonalds. You drive there, with what little gas you have after spending your money on bills and student loans. Once you've aquired your meal, you drive back home, eating some of it on the way there, tossing away the paper your hamburger rested in. When garbage day rolls around, that paper is sent to your local landfill, and then carried off eventually into a larger landfill, or worse, the ocean. Microplastics are a hot topic recently, with a worst case scenario being in that they were found in the recesses of someone's lungs. Convenience is something we definitely take for granted, especially in America. People often choose not to recycle, whether it be by their own choice, or by not having the means necessary in their local town or city. We burn fossil fuels and other dirty energy sources daily, depleting our planet of its natural resources and destroying its ozone layer. It won't be too long before the world is without its natural layer of protection. 

As human beings, we tend to want. We want what we don't have. We want to own and collect objects and knicknacks, favorite dresses or outfits, books, etc. While I do see this as simply being human nature, I do feel like the modern human is much too materialistic and wasteful in this current era. We could do so much more to cut away waste, to minimalize social media, and to better the world as a whole. And I do hope that one day, there are more people who realize this that may make a difference. 
