Happiness comes in many forms. Some might even say that like beauty, happiness is in the eye of the beholder. What makes one person happy might differ from what sparks joy for another. When thinking about whether a person experiences happiness from achieving personal goals or when they focus on the happiness of others, one must take into consideration that happiness is fluid, and a deeply subjective emotion.

If one must argue the likelihood of one or the other, due to the subjective matter of the topic, it could be useful to use one's own personal experience and reflections on this topic. Achieving goals that have been pursued for long periods of time and that much effort has been given to, happiness comes from a sense of satisfaction and improves one's esteem. But if others around you are unhappy, then can that joy from personal gains be truly felt? Do we not find it to be ultimately just as satisfying when we have brought happiness and caused joy in another person? An example from my personal life that I can exemplify this argument with is me finally landing a job in my field after a year of applications, feeling happy at the achievment of my personal goal, but at the same time feeling sad that I have to move and leave my friends and family behind. My happiness co-existed with a space of sadness due to having others become unhappy from my happiness. 

I think we can compare this discussion to intrinsic or extrinsic causes or motivations to happiness. Intrinsic being personal goals and extrinsic being the happiness of others in our environment influencing us. It is up to an individual on which process they feel more impartial to and which holds a heavier weight for them. 

The discussion on the likelihood of happiness being caused by self-achievment or influencing other's happiness is moot since both are just as likely. The subjectivity of the argument cannot provide an objective conclusion. Both options are equally capable of causing happiness to a person. I think both options are also able to influence each other since our self and others are interconnected. 

