People absolutely achieve better things when cooperating with eachother. If people compete with eachother, all it can create is jealousy, frustration, and anger. 
Things like that in the work place will only hinder people and their potential. Inorder for a work place to be in order, people need to be happy, and not looking to
compete with their fellow coworker. For example, I used to work at jimmy johns and people were in competition in many ways, or at least they thought they were, whether it came to slicing products or making sandwiches, it was mostly cleaning though. But when the competition did happen, the workers clearly got themselves mad mostly and just made a bad vibe/environment for everyone. This is why it is essential to cooperate, because cooperation leads to happy workers, which in the end leads to a happy company and happy profits. Another great example is sports, cooperation will be the winner, not competition and people trying to be better then one another. Teamwork will make the dream work. I used to play a ton of esports competitively, and cooperation was key, if one player was more competitive then the other, it created a form of a leaderboard etc and people would get salted over who is better. 

I am a twin also, and competition between us was fun here and there, but always cooperation was the key to our brothership. When playing video games with eachother, especially halo or csgo on PC, we cooperate fairly nicely, and that is another reason why being competitive does not work out. Also one place I see in my life where competition gets out of hand is when people play basketball, people get too seriously about the basketball and who trys to grab it etc, it just creates for a bad experience sometimes when playing that sport. Competition is really only good when you are honing your skills, maybe learning from a player that is just as good as you or if not better, its always good to learn from competitive scenarios, at least certain ones. 

Competition can be fun only in games in my opinion. Yu-Gi-Oh is fun, and the competition in that card game really pushes you to achieve becoming a better, smarter, more versatile and dynamic player. Competition can get the blood flowing, and that's what its good for. Honestly I am running out of things to think about for this essay, but I am trying to think of more things as we speak. Take this for example, competition was also bad when I went fishing with my twin brother when I was little. Sometimes I'd catch way more fish then my brother would and it would make him cry. I didn't mean to compete, but it seemed like I was to him possibly. Competition is also fun when your racing someone. 

All in all, I believe that cooperation is the key. Cooperation is how people have built themselves from the ground up in society, it is why we are here today, still standing. 
Cooperation is needed to be successful in all forms of life, cooking, friendships, living in general. I've honestly had a great time writing this essay and haven't wrote something like this in so long, it has been a pleasure writing for you guys. I don't know what else to really say. Cooperation was always successful in any job I have been at. If you don't cooperate, you won't learn anything, especially by being too confident in yourself. Being arrogant usually means your competitive, and that is never a good thing.

Cooperating with parents, now thats a big one. If you don't cooperate, you're either being spanked and becoming homeless, depending on where you are at life. 
I would say I was never competitive with my parents, as I was always trying to learn something from them. But sometimes I didn't cooperate, and yes, paid the price.
Cooperating with my parents achieved success by having and maintaining a good relationship with them, and that is another reason why cooperating is the best choice over being competitive. 

Competition when it comes to financial status is also a disgusting thing, people judge people based on how they look, clothes they can't afford because they may not be as lucky as another person, competition in the world just isn't needed. You can tell when a person is stuck up and you know they are the competitive type, probably only willing to cooperate with themselves. Not all well off people are like this though, but we have seen quite a few karens lately on the internet, haven't we.

Its a good thing that you guys have made this essay so long, or I may have not thought about the other inputs I have on this scenario. I am still thinking about what to type. I want you to know I greatly appreciate this opportunity in this tough time. Competition isn't good when it comes to cleaning either. If someone in the household thinks they are doing too much, they put the blame on someone else. Cooperation and just being a worker in general leads to a happier home when cleaning. Again, I appreciate this.
Competition in investing isn't a good thing either, it makes people too proud of what money they have made.


