

                                                                                     MATERIALISM: EVIL OR ANGEL? 


                 Imagine that you have a big estate, a high technology sport car, and even a little private jet! Does these things make you happier than you are currently are? Most people will answer this as yes but there are ongoing arguments about materialism and its positive and negative effects on people and society. Contrary to most of the people think, recent researchs and data show having more material and satisfaction of a society doesnt completely  overlap. Now, we will talk about this ongoing argument and argue whether materialism is a good thing or not for a society.

                From the start of the timeline, humankind always want to possess and gain some material things. Actually, because human is also a material, this was necessary and understandable. Humankind need to have shelter, food, security and some social ties to continue his/her life. But, at some point, human wanted to have more things than he actually need. When he needs 1000 m2 field to grow enough herbs to live and need to have one cow to feed his family, he wanted 10000m2 field, 10 cows, more and more. Because having more material things seems as the sign of power. And, of course,  humankind is the most addicted one to power among all creatures. Thats why, to have more power, human wanted more and more material. Because resources are scarce, he started to fight for limited resources and kill. Wars started just as this. So materialism was the main reason for the all wars in teh human history. On the other hand, human doesnt only made of material. He also has a soul, feelings, friendships and many more non-material values. When humankind forget about this non material values and gains, he tried to get more material and all conflicts on the earth arise from this. 
               So, what should be done now?  Human of course will have some material to make his life better and get taste from life. But also shouldnt forget that he isnt only made of matter. So geting more material shouldnt be only goal of a life. Material is only a way to reach happiness and comfort. Thats why, a decent amount of material in our life will be enough for happiness and peace in society. As materialism suggest, ownership of more and more things, bank accounts, golds and diamonds doesnt have an ongoing positive effect on our happiness level. At some point, additional ownerships add zero marginal happiness to us, and even at some point it turns to negative. The materials you suppose you have started to be your owner and you started to be their slave. So this ownership starts to be a burden on your back. So, in order to make your back hurt, a proper amount of material will be enough for humankind. Thats what we all need in our lives! 
