It happens all too often. You see your favorite influencer on social media sporting an amazing new look. They've tagged all the products on their post and within moments, you find yourself on a new product site with a few items in your cart, ready to checkout. With these new products, you are sure to create the look you saw earlier. All it took was a few clicks and a few more dollars than you should probably spend. In less than 3-5 business days, you're tearing through packaging...layers and layers of bubble wrap, paper, and ultimately, disappointment. Does this look silly on me? Why are the colors so different, the material so poorly made? Are there free returns? If this seems all too relatable, it's not your fault. These days we are all victims of an onslaught of content. These images and impressions that we form after hours of tapping and scrolling are having a profoud effect on us all. 

One cannot deny that the ease with which we consume content through social media has impacted just how severely we are affected by it. We might not even know it's happening to us. All we know is that we are always "seeing" a life we wish we could have for ourselves. Yet, deep down, there's this persistent feeling that we aren't measuring up. We don't look or feel like the things we aspire to. We feel depressed. Teen suicide rates have increased steadily in the last several years, particularly in young females. There are those who argue that these issues of inadequacy have always existed. We've seen flawless pictures of celebrities on magazine centerfolds for decades, so how is this different now? For starters, one no longer has to go out of their way to find these images. They are everywhere. Companies use our demographics and online habits to literally feed us products, most of which come with glowing reviews and celebrity endorsements. If adults are having issues resisting these charms, what can we expect from children? They've been "tracked" and "targeted" their whole lives at this point, most of them holding an iPad or smartphone before they can talk. 

With the ability to monitor all sorts of data, it is high time we take control over some of the deficiencies that have accompanied this virtual revolution, so that future generations no longer have to feel pressure and temptation to conform to an unrealistic standard. We must embrace the beauty that comes from counterculture, from being yourself, and not needing to share every little bit of our lives. At the very least, we need to provide support that fosters a strong sense of self, a belief that images are just that, rather than our ticket to instant happiness. 
