To me this is a time old debate, and I think I have to stick to my merits on this one, Competition is hands down the leading factor in getting things done which in turns leads to more success.  I recall in my youth many of times that competition drove me to go the extra mile and put forth that extra 10% effort needed to get things done.  I would say having this trait goes a long way.

Being a competitor is one of the biggest attributes you can carry with you day to day.  There is something poetic about keeping your head down and focusing on the task at hand, with a little extra fire and fight lit under you at the helm of competition.  Being a competitor goes hand in hand with being a over thinker.  You will leave no stone un turned with this attribute. 

Being a competitor will literally change your life, it will re wire the way you think.  But there is a fine line between morals and victory in competition.  It is key to always keep your emotions in check and your intentions good!  This is one of the many factors you have to weigh being a competitor.  What is right and what is wrong? Being a competitor to me means taking the high ground, playing a level higher than most.  And always being trustworthy!  Thank you. 

Ps.  Being a competitor will come with a ton of ups and downs.  Ideas may not always collaborate and go along smoothly but i've noticed in my years that competition brings out the best in everyone around you, and brings out the best results in the task at hand. 

I will say this about cooperation, there is a lot of positive thinking to team work and putting your brain power together for a common goal,  I do appreciate those moments about it.  So I could see the arguement for both sides.  You almost have to carry both with you in your day to day lifestyle and decision making.  To get the best results possible.  The ultimate goal is to have a steady mix of both cooperation with your group around you while always striving to remain competitive and at the best of your game. 

Whether cooperative or competitive do what you love and love what you do!  Always strive to be the best possible version of yourself and good things will come from that.   Thank you again for this opportunity. 
