Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? I think society has changed how we see materialistic things. Should it be criticized? I believe that today it should be criticized for it takes away from the meaning of equality in society and takes away from happiness to add instant gratification that is only fleeting. 

For hundreds, if not, thousands of years, society has used materialistic items to show off how much money they have. It was a statement on their status in society or of their wealth. No matter decade or century, this has always been the case. Basically the items are a show off to others that are of a lower societal status. 

While consuming materialistic items can be seen as a source of meaning and happiness, it can also be the bane in society. Materialistic items only cause a short burst of happiness, but once you get it, the happiness subsides and you find another materialistic item you just "have to have" to make you happy and that original item no longer makes you happy. This is a downfall to society as the more materialistic items are at your fingertips the more society continues to consume and want. 

The statement, keeping up with the Joneses, is seen throughout the world. If someone has an item then someone else think they need the same item or one better. This takes away the happiness and turns into a competative, yet greedy, pasttime. The cycle continues, you purchase an item, you are happy for a small amount of time, another item comes along, and you aren't happy with the first item anymore, you buy the new item, and so forth. This all in turn, takes away from the meaning and happiness of having materialstic things. 

Materialism, unfortunately, has turned into a lifestyle that continues to consume people in their wants and forgetting their needs. This can lead to debt, unhappiness, anger, and self loathing. The more you spend the more you go in debt, the more you go in debt, the more unhappy you are and you start regretting your purchase. This too is another cycle that is not broken.

In conclusion, due to the rammifications of materialistic things, I see no positive side to having these items and consuming them. Society should be criticized for being materialistic because it serves no purpose but to consume their heads with greed, unintentional ostrosizing, and become less worried about society as a hole needing to do less consumption and more preservation. You may get materialistic things, but in the end it ends in unhappiness and possible debt or loss of wealth.
