What would it be like to live in a society where things didn't matter? It is sometimes asked, "Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic?" I believe modern society should definitely be criticized for its materialism and leaving materialism behind will result in a much greater society with more happiness, more human connection and more free time to enjoy life.

The consumption of goods, especially in the United States, always seems like it is on an increasing trajectory. People feel like they need to have all the things and the best of all the things all the time. And once they acquire that new thing, they need another new thing. A 50 inch TV isn't good enough anymore. Now, it has to be a 70 inch TV. It's not good enough to have a decent car that is maintained and runs well. Now, everyone needs a new car every few years. And that car has to have all the bells and whistles. This never ending cycle of consumption means a never ending cycle of spending. And to fund this never ending cycle of spending, people need to work more and more hours and go more and more into debt. Is this really the way life should be lived? Is this really the way we want to live?

Some may say, "acquiring possessions and spending money is a vital source of meaning and happiness..." However, is it really a source of happiness if it creates stress and a lack of time to enjoy non-material things? What if instead of focusing on buying things we focused on things like human interactions and experiences? When you look back on your life will it be the great car or big TV you had that you remember or will it be the time you laughed all afternoon with your family or friends? And wouldn't it be nice to have so much more time to spend with your family and friends laughing and interacting because you didn't need to work a second job or extra hours to pay for all the stuff you bought? Material stuff is just stuff. It's just clutter that distracts from actually living life. Life is the stuff that can't be bought - the moments, the experiences, the laughter, the love. The "stuff" that has real meaning.

In conclusion, the materialistic nature of our society should definitely be criticized. It is not bringing us joy and happiness and freedom and health. It is actually stealing from us all the things that really matter.
