It stands the test of time that materialistic possessions reflect upon a person's sense of worth, accomplishments, and perhaps even who they are as a person, but they should not be critized for it.

It's good to have materialistic possessions to a certain extent. We need at least a home or shelter of some sort, food, and basic necessities to have a decent living, and for that.. there should not be any criticism for that at all. However, having materialistic possessions is not everything, and having too much may not always be the solution, but rather a crutch to becoming what we choose to obey, and what controls us.

We should attempt to build better relationships with who we have, expand our communities, and help other lives reach higher levels because of our existence on this earth while we still have time here. There really shouldn't be such a thing as poverty on this earth. We could do so much more as a human race if we stand to look out for one another. But unfortunately, there are businesses in poverty. Think about how inflation is rising up in our nations, but wage is staying the same? The same businesses that employ us. It doesn't really make any sense..

Along with building better relationships, expanding our communities, and helping each other living higher levels, as long as we continue to build and create, with the moral obligation of man's laws and God's law, we should not be criticized for being materialistic. We have most likely earned it through hard and smart work, through serving others, and growing to better serve the people. Of course, there will always be opinions and judgment.. but those are what strengthen us, to bring fuel to the fire of pursuing our dreams and bettering ourselves in society. We just need to make sure we have a foundation of serving the people, and never forgetting where we come from.

In conclusion, modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic, so long as we remember that it's good to have materialistic possessions to a certain extent, that we build better relationships with who we have, and that as long as we have a moral obligation of man's laws and God's law to uphold as we create, then it should not be a question, but a legacy that we choose to embark on the world, for centuries to come after our passing. 
