Materialism is the desire to acquire physical items that bring us emotional joy. These days, the path to many people's happiness involves purchasing and possessing items of status and/or entertainment value. The global economic system of capitalism promotes the concept of wanting physical items and creates a global market for them. Should modern society be judged for its materialism? I don't believe so because it is materialism that drives the world we know today. 

In an ideal world, people wouldn't care about physical property and we could all appreciate each other and enjoy life free of possessions. Unfortunately, that is not how the world is and that is not how humans are. Human beings are animals with instincts and desires that drive us to progress and achieve as we strive to make survival easier and more convenient. A key aspect of this development is the desire for tokens of social status. Achieving social status is the way people gain social power which allows certain people in the population to affect change and drive progress and innovation. It is a natural way of competition that drives technology and innovation. A big part of that competition is being able to exhibit it through money which is used to purchase items of value. Humans have an animalistic, competitive spirit that has resulted in our ability to not only survive, but strive to this point in Earth's history. It is that spirit which forces most of us to value things like money and possessions as we attempt to prove ourselves to each other and find some kind of value or purpose in life. 

While it is not ideal for all people to be obsessed with materialism, it is merely a side effect of our success as a species. We cannot blame ourselves for wanting to breathe air so we can't judge ourselves for being materialistic. Without materialism, most people would be very aimless in life. The process that led to our development has made human survival an afterthought for many which leads to leisure time. People fill their leisure time with objects and hobbies. Without these objects and hobbies, people would have nothing to do except ponder their mortality which does not support the capitalistic structure of the global economy. Our materialism feeds the machine of our survival at this point and therefore criticism of this has to be matched with equal criticism of our success as a species. 

Our ability to thrive and make life more and more convenient has naturally led to us becoming obsessed with possessions. Materials are materially valued. Humans want to feel like we have value and a purpose in existing and sometimes we look toward spiritual concepts for that. The argument against materialism is that there must be something else of value for us, though those things can't be seen or touched. Most logical people only believe in what they can see, touch, or prove scientifically. We can't scientifically prove the human soul, love, or God, but we can easily see what is material. While we can still believe in the invisible, valuing material things gives us an anchor to root us in reality. Materialism is simply our way of finding as much value in our lives as we can.
