A country music artist once sang, "money can't buy happiness, but it can buy me a boat." Another American statement is "work hard, play hard." Reflecting on these concepts brings materialism to the forefront of our scociety. We see the flashy cars, big houses, and private jets on our TV screens. We drive past the country clubs on our way to work. We imagine what it would be like to wear the latest shoes or carry the latest bag. Some might argue that we spend excessively. Materialism is a positive aspect to our society that supports our economy while allowing consumers to put their money where it makes them happy.
First, the American dream tells us that we can be anything we want to be in America. Painters can be paid to paint. Designers can be paid to design. Engineers can be paid to create the latest and best technology. If everyone bought what they only needed, and never what they wanted, these creative thinkers would be out of a job. They would not have a place to share their talent in a unique way. This would lead to a boring and plain society.
Second, everyone needs money to live. It is expensive to live in America. Housing, food, and transportation costs have skyrocketed. Americans need jobs. Americans are creators of ideas that lead to items that people want to buy. If no one bought the items, people would be out of work. Car dealers would not have commission checks. If everyone bought just what they truly needed, many people would not have a job. Also, the allure of having more "things" causes many people to work harder or get higher education, so they can earn more. High earners contribute much more to our society in terms of taxation and charity. 
Finally, everyone needs relationships with people. As a single man, my uncle purchased a 4 bedroom home because he said an empty house is a lonely house. When he married and had two children, his house became the hub of family reunions. My grandmother lived her last years comfortably in that home with them. Once, while leaving the home for a long weekend, my husband thanked my uncle for having us in his home. My uncle said, "I bought this home so that we could all have a space to be together." While many may have thought my uncle to be materialistic in purchasing a home far larger than he needed as a single man, he had the vision of a large place for family and friends to gather. This continues to bring him much happiness in his retirement, when we all go to visit for holidays and birthdays. Therefore, inviting friends to a large home or taking out family members on a boat are some of the ways that many Americans enjoy mkaing memories through their materialistic tendencies.
Some would criticize materialism. They may say that money doesn't buy happiness. However, money buys choices. One can choose to help others hrough charity to having extra time to volunteer. Others may claim that people should focus on what is important in life, and not buying things. However, many people find a way to express themselves through the clothing they wear, the artwork and furnishings that adorn their homes, or the cars they drive. They find freedom and joy in the purchases they make, so why should anyone judge their choices? At the end of the day, Americans should always be free to buy and choose what to do with their own finances. If you're not paying the bill, it's not up to you. Materialism provides jobs, time together, and choices. 
