     I definitely think that most of the time images and impressions we see, do have too much of an effect on people. Just look at all the commercials we see on TV and you will find many examples of this when you finally get that "hot" product or item in your hand. Ads are everywhere now and it is so hard to not get pulled into their allure. "Influencers" are everywhere nowadays too, giving their PAID "opinion" on how much they LOVE certain products. So, you take out your credit or debit card and hit that ORDER button.
     The item then arrives at your home, usually in the same week you ordered it. You take a look at the packaging and can't wait to see what's inside. Sometimes it takes a bit to even get into the package, which most likely just gives a rise to the contents inside. You finally open it up, all excited about how you are going to use it, just like the ad you saw. You open the package and find the item inside. You then think, that's it, where's the rest? More times than not, the item isn't living up to the expectations that you dreamed about because of the ad or "influencer" you saw.
     The packaging is nice and fancy or cool looking. That's the ploy on how not only ads get you, but also how items are more appealing on store shelves. We are only human and maybe it has been instilled in us or it is part of us just being human but manufaturers and marketers know how to trick us into buying into a lot of useless, at least once we get the item, purchases that we would not normally buy. It's probably more now than ever before, the "American" way.
     We, as a people should be able to get what we only need and not buy into the images and impressions we see, not only in ads, but so-called "influencers" that we see on a daily basis. We need to just learn to say no, I'm not letting fancy packaging or the ads to take over us. Together, we can not let the images and impressions of others make us sheep. Stand out on your own and think more. We need to teach our kids the same, be your own you and don't always follow.
