    Currently, we are facing an election season.  This is a time where advertisements for candidates are very numerous.  They provide citizens with information which needs to be discerned.  In today's society, it is far too common for people to be swayed by information that is presented for the purpose of manipulating a person's thoughts.  Certainly, we see this in advertisements which contain bias.  Also, imagery can be effectively used to make a person seem like something more than they really are.  

     The advertisements will of course be biased towards the candidate and the political party that they represent.  Likewise, they will seek to attack the opponent and perhaps make them seem worse than they really are.  Sometimes there is a grain of truth in the advertising meant to galvanize supporters of a candidate.  One example would be Beto O' Rourke of Texas, who did say "Hell yeah, I am going to take your AR-15".  This is often played in advertising against the candidate.  The quote is meant to imply not only is Beto against the Second Amendment, but also against upholding the law in general.  A very successful ad by Governor Abbot's (Beto's opponent) campaign has Beto stating conflicting positions depending on where he is giving the speech.  In cities which are clearly Democrat, he has stated more restrictive positions against the Second Amendment.  In more conservative areas, the advertisement has quotes which are much more toned down.  He is of course labeled as a "flip flopper", resulting in an ad that is successful with helping to widen the Governor's lead in the race.  Multiple ads on television and the internet continuously inform the listerner that Beto cannot be trusted.  Naturally, only one side of the candidate is presented.  Not only is verbal information used this way, but also imagery which paints someone in a positive or negative light.  

     These same television and internet advertisements also have a visual approach to swaying the viewer.  For example, if a candidate is pro-immigration, and the ad is meant to make the viewer see the negative impact of illegal immigration, there will be images of people crossing the border in droves, arrests being made, and perhaps even show criminals who are illegal immigrants.  The other side will at the same time show innocent children being detained in camps away from their families and make the viewer take a more humanitarian approach.  Also, if a candidate is being made to be painted in a positive or negative light, facial expressions are shown to help sway the viewer's opinion.  If the candidate is to be seen as "good", they will likely be shown smiling, be helping people, and other positive images will be shown.  Likewise, if the candidate is meant to be seen as harmful to the public, they will be frowning, look incompetent or confused, and appear in a very negative light.  Most of the time, the advertising suggests what the candidate will or will not do.  A stern warning is given for what will happen if the opponent is elected.  This is especially true if the candidate does not really have a track record with the issues that are being discussed.  

     With just a couple of weeks to go until a national election, the public is being bombarded with advertisments meant to make us support or avoid a range of public figures.  Candidates for the US Senate and many representatives are especially vulnerable to this as the balance of power in Congress really depends on these races.  It is perfectly legal, and should be considered.  However I would argue that a common mistake most people make is the failure to look at all of the information.  There is a great tendency for people to see only what they want to see and not consider both sides of an issue (or a candidate).  As always, it would appear that the result of the election would often fall to the independent voter who can weigh all of the evidence and make a more informed decision. 


