I think materialism as a positive or negative wholly depends on your station in life. I would argue that materialism gets a bad wrap because, as with many other things, we hear about the worst case scenarios. It's also easy to point out and lambast people for living in excess and a wealth of material things is an easy targert for this goal.

I think that if someone's materialistic tendencies are not harming themselves or others then theey should be allowed to do what makes them happy free from critisism. There are many people the don't agree with the way other people carry themselves but none elicit such a militaristic response from crotics as materialism.

People will try to say it's a bad thing because of resourses being gobbled up and people being taken advantage of for cheap labor. Unfortunately, those conditions do exist in our world. However, I think the end consumer is less to blame than the producer and advertiser. It's easy to make these claims when you view the developing world through the lens of what is expected in a 1st world country. It's harder to rebut that even though it's not as cushy as we are accustomed, it does give these people a sense of purpose and a means to provide for their family.

I think the producers should be forced to pay a fair wage to the people making their products to sell. I understand that this would raise prices, but what's a worse price than human suffering? I think the obscene levels of wealth some are privy to should be forced to be redistributed to help as many people's lives as we can. I think this would ultimately make a better world. Additionally, the rise in prices if this were implemented would naturally stop so many of the particular item being sought or purchased which would in turn reduce manufacturing and over time it would allow resources to replenish because demand has be dropped all by treating the workers better while profit may drop, but not many people have any sympathy for obscenely wealthy people to lose a bit of income.

I think the producers feet should be held to the fire. I also think the advertiser shares the burden as well. If the advertiser is good at what they do they use psychological tricks and actions to drive desire for what they are selling. To me, this type of manipulation is underhanded especially when it is used on people that don't understand the concept.

In closing, I think that materialism is ok within reason and as long as your habits and purchases do not negatively effect people or the environment in a lasting negative way. I think this should be looked at through the lens of providing opportunity to people in developing countries rather than being viewed as marginalization. I think modern society should not be criticized because there are so many forces trying to compel consumers to purchase and convince there is now a need where one did not exixt previously. If anyone deserves blame, I believe it falls on the producers (read: exploiters) and advertisers using the psychological tricks to sell products.
