Every day, land fills of disposed items are polluting cities, filled with junk that people once thought was treasure because our society is materialistic.  We buy things because we think it will make us happy, but as soon as we have it we are looking for the next thing to make us happy.  The materials never make us happy because materialism promotes a false idea- that material goods will make us hpapy.  They never will.

Modern society deserves criticism for being materialistic.  The reasons that materialsm is bad are because it is wasteful and hurtful to the environment, it causes people to go into debt, and it promotes classism.

Materialism causes landfills to be filled with garbage unnecesarily and most of the items that we buy aren't biodegradeable.  For example, clothing from fast fashion does not last long, maybe a season or two, and then has to be thrown out because it is out of style or it gets ripped.  This requires it to go right to the landfill.  This is wrong.  We should instead invest in clothing that is high quality and pragmatic so that we are not polluting our land.

Materialism can cause people to go in debt.  When everyone wants the next greatest thing, they are constantly needing to buy new things that they don't really need.  This can cause people to waste money that they don't have on things they don't need just to chase the feeling of excitemenet of materialistic consumption.  When people spend money they don't have, they take on debt with high interest rates.  This makes the cost of the goods astronomically higher than they realize they are.

Materialism also promotes classism.  We think that people with more money, and more things, are better than others who don't have them.  In reality, we are all equal and we should value people for who they are, how they treat others, and not how much they have. These flashy displays of wealth are harmful.  

While some supporters of materialism might say that it supports our economy, this isn't totally true.  While in the short term, it may be helpful to have constant cash flow into stores, most of this money goes to big box retailers, which actually takes money out of local economies and hurts local communities.  

In conclusion, our modern society should be criticized for being materialistic.  It hurts the environment, causes people to go into debt, and promotes classism.  Supporters of materialism who say that it helps the economy are indeed wrong.  The money that is spent on materialism more often than not goes to big businesses and corporate fat cats who are part of the top 1% richest people and is then taken away from the local economy.  
