We put too much thought into what we should buy. We are focused on things that will not go with us in the end. For instance, we buy music or books or huge homes with the intention of building a big life, but in the end, its all gone. I think that pop culture and all of its influence affect everyone in the US. 
We want to have more. Thats the main problem. is there is no lack of stuff. it just keeps building up. I make lists of all the stuff I want all the time. I try to come up with different ideas of things. But having the best stuff or items makes no difference to anyone else. I want to buy a car, but at this rate, it would be way too hard to be able to get one. I think that its hard to afford big items like that. I try to remember that in the end, it wont matter.
I think that people focus on how they can get people to notice them. they want the spotlight on them, and they feel like all the stuff they have will make others like them. It actually doesnt matter. Advertisements and movies and music put emphasis on buying huge things like homes and games and technology. 
There are alot of ways that people could put their focus on other things. For instance, they could give back to the communities. They could give back to their families. They could spend less on themselves and instead on others. 
Money is definetely not a good thing, and it has never been good. we acquire more and more of it, and it does nothing. sometimes, it even drives people more into debt. 
Thats the other problem, is debt. people, like me, have spent way more that they can afford on some things. We overcharge accounts, and overspend. I think that its not great. we get so behind that we cant catch up. Especially with medical bills, and hospital visits. It can all add up, and not for anything good. it causes people to break down. 
People have stolen big items because they want more. But it gets them nowherer. it does nothing because its all just stuff. They want to feel big and significant, but the truth is, its not possible. there is no way to feel complete. it just keeps building.
Its hard to fully grasp what life is. We all want something. Anything. everything. we want to have value. But at the cost of what? Some people hoard so much stuff that some buildings have to be demolished. its really sad. they keep thinking that owning more will make a difference. We want to look at how far weve come, and what weve collected, but it doesnt matter unfortunately. I think that people should spend less on phsysical items and more on expericences. I think that we should focus on traveling, and seeing new things, loctations, and things like that. I think that it is more crutial to learn. Instead of buying alot more stuff, we should try to do more to get out and see the world. 
History is really important in terms of items. The things that people before us used and collected. I think that there has to be a lesson in everything. It all will make sense one day. We have to try to see things differently. Especially since we all have made big mistakes. Buying more wont help us. It harms us more. We end up broke in the end. 
I sometimes go to Goodwill and to the salvation army, and to see all these peoples items that they cherished and loved, just disregarded, is sad. I think that its a big lesson on life. what is important to us now wont matter eventually. 
I spent alot of money on a new laptop recently, and it definitely will not be cheap to pay it off. I dont know when I will be able to do that. I know it will take a long time. Just for something so useless. I want to know if it matters. 
People need to look at what they have, and decide if they should get rid of some things. It might help them get a better perspective on life and everything they own. It is not worth it to own everything. Some of the best actors have had everything, and they did not feel like their life was worth anything. So they ended their lives. Its really sad to see situations like that. It shows that all the stuff we may wany doesnt matter. That is how I feel on it. It makes no difference if we get more or less. We are all going to the same place. I have thought about this outside of this study. I think that there is a seriousness to owning too much stuff. I think that we need to work on editing. I dont want to be a person who just keeps buying things. its not worth it. Hopefully one day I can look back and know that this study was worth it. Thank you. 
