Society has developed and changed many, many times throughout the decades and each generation must adapt. Certain changes don't need to be made, but human beings devlop hedonic adaption and believe that we need more and we need pleasant and happy experiences, which lead to materialism. To a point I do not believe we can help it, but on the other end of the stick, the point can be made that when is enough stuff, enough? There is no blame or critizism to be placed on developing these ways, but only acknolwedgment that maybe materialism is not what majority of society believes it to be. But how would one know without being removed from it? 

Modern society cannot be critisized for adopting or adapting to materalistic ways as a whole. Each generation has taken ideas or ways and changed them, with only the hopes to make things better. Materialism started from somewhere, and it came from items being produced all over the world instead of in our own homes. Humans start to thrive for different materials, products, and options when they are given them. Can modern society be critisized for all adaptions throughout society that are made? I do not believe so. For example, when a group of people believe something in their whole hearts, majority of the group will agree or go along even if they don't. Without being removed from the materialisic mindset it is difficult to blame those that are entranced. 

On the other spectrum, one could say that society is to be critisized IF they recognize that it really does no good but still partake just for the soul purpose of partaking. When one partakes knowlingly in bad habits but does nothing to change the habit, they are in a position to be highly critisized. 

From personal experience I have removed myself from the materialistic way of living, and have extremely simplified my possessions. But, had I not met someone else with the perception on society that not all happiness comes from external sources. If society was able to step back and see they only are filling their lives with more void, and then chose to still partake, we could blame society. But for most it comes from ignorance, society does not realize the time warp they are in. To critisize society or one person even for being materialistic is negligent because it would be like critisizing deer for being afraid of cars. 


