Happiness is one of the main emoitons that humans strive to feel. We are always told we need to strive for happiness, as that the ulimate state of being a human. For some, happiness comes in the state of setting and acheiveing their personal goals. For others, their sense of happiness comes from helping other, in effort to get happiness from the graidication of their services. While there are many ways to acheive happines, i belive that people are more likey to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals then the happiness of others. In this essay i shall argue why happiness from personal goals are better then happiness from helping others, and why helping other can sometimes not be good for your own self happiness.

To be happy is feel contentment. You often smile when you are happy, you laugh out loud and you beam with joy. People are more likey to be happy if they foucs on their own personal goals. Personal goals are check points we make for ourselves to get to our ulimate self. People often set with personal goal, financial personal goals even mental health personal goals. When you set a personal goal and you reach it, you feel a great amount of saticfaction. You get joy from reaching your perosnal goal and staficfaction of getting closer to your improved self. This creates a over arching happiness, happiness to see yourself imporve and seeing your self get to where you want. Having goals and acheiving goals is essitnal to human existance. You would countiously make personal goals, because as humans we will never be at a state of perfection, we can only reach to a state of betterance. So focuisng on your persoanl goals will lead you to more happiness.

Others may say that you can have the same amount of happiness when seeking happiness from others. While this is true to a extent,  a single person cannot control others and cannot control the actions of others. People who work as docotors get great satficiation from seeing their patients improve and bettering their health. but they also have to deal with patients who dont want to try, who want to give up and dont want to better their own lives. So the happiness that docotrs may get from their paitents may be limited due to their limits as a signle person. When you strive for happiness from other, there will always be a chance that you be disappinted in their actions. However, when you strive for your self and set your own goals, there wil be a less likey chance of diappionemnt as you can control your own actions, therfore strive for your own happiness.

In conclusion, people who focus on their personal goals are more likey to  to be more happy then those who focus on the happiness of other. We cannot control the actions of others, be we can control the action of ourselves.Humans are not perfect, so we are always in the state of improvemnt and betterance. When you complete your goals you get a statfication oif reaching your goals as well as joy for improving your self.



