How many times have you walked into a store and saw glittering, colorful packages, but were disappointed upon opening the box? How many celebrities or politicians seem beautiful and charismatic when the cameras are on, but are seldom so entertaining in real life? We are commonly given images and impressions of things that do not accurately portray what is inside of the box, but is that such a bad thing? Images and impressions are an important way we learn about our environment, but perhaps these impressions offer too much of a fantasy and not enough realistic expectiations. In this essay, I will explain why I believe that the images and impressions shown to us by the media and advertisers may be giving us unfair expectations of reality.

A shampoo may advertise itself as being "chemical free" on the front of the box in big bold letters, but when you actually read the small print on the reverse, you will see many chemicals listed. While this is not necessarily a bad thing, advertising a shampoo as "chemical free" is incredibly misleading. A consumer may purchase this item thinking they are making a good choice for their health but having no idea what is actually contained within. This space could instead be used to advertise things such as whether it is peanut, gluten, or lactose free. Despite the fact that these things will often be portrayed on the front of a package, advertising these things in plain view is a lot less appealing to customers than something big and flashy. It draws much less attention. In this way, the people seeking products for their benefits will be unable to find the products that they need as easily as those that do not have special needs. A greater number of people would benefit from more accurate and relevant information being published on the outside of a package.

The media and society put a lot of pressure on celebrities to look their absolute best all of the time. Social media does the very same for young impressionable people trying to make it famous as a model or artist. Society has created this space where it is considered unprofessional to be without make-up or have on fancy designer clothes. Not only do most people not have the money to sink into looking like a celebrity all of the time, but it is also very damaging to one's mental health. More youth than ever are being diagnosed with depression, eating disorders, and anxieties around their appearance. Social media and celebrities set up an unrealistic standard that many feel they need to achieve in their daily lives in order to be viewed as beautiful, successful, or likeable. Mental health would overall improve if people did not feel like they always had to make themselves up to be seen as presentable to the public.

Kids are exceptionally susceptible to colorful and flashy marketing. In the United States, it is against the law to advertise to kids. This means that certain ads cannot be targeted at kids, as they could be easily manipulated and swayed by flashy imagery. Starting kids out at a young age with unrealistic expectations will only set them up for failure later on in their lives. It is important that children are taught to love themselves and to critically think about what products and media they choose to consume. When kids are left to their own feelings, they will almost always be swayed by whatever is the most colorful or loud, and not what is best for their health or wellbeing. Kids are being trained from an early age to not question what products they are consuming, which can have dangerous consequences for them later on in life.

They say to never judge a book by its cover, and that the best content will be inside. Then, we dress up the cover of that book to make it as shiny and pretty as possible, while the content inside turns out to be an utter mess of nonesense. Ultimately, people will end up purchasing the product that makes the most noise on the shelves. It is our responsibility as a society to change the way we view products and what we allow to be advertised to us. The looks on the packages represent a reality that does not actually exist and sets up unrealistic expextations for consumers. Society will continue paying the price of the glittering, colorful packages unless we start thinking more consciously about what we put on the box.
