One might argue that humans are competitive by nature. We go through life hearing phrases like "survival of the fittest," "the early bird gets the worm," and "close only counts in horseshoes and hand grenades." There is a driving need to be the first, the best, and the one on top. We compete for awards, for bragging rights, etc. Competition does indeed seem to be a natural phenomenon - all living things seem to be in constant competition for territory, food, mates, everything that is necessary for life to continue. But does that mean competition is a constant necessity? Perhaps there is another way, because there is another phenomenon which exists in nature - cooperation. 

Surely you've also heard phrases like "safety in numbers," "there is no I in team," and "greater than the sum of our parts." It's true that exceptional individuals, winners of competitions, can accomplish great things. An Olympic gold medalist may be the fastest runner or swimmer, the most graceful diver or figure skater, the most accurate shooter, but all of these things are, when you think about it, relatively small accomplishments, because they're limited by being individual accomplishments. We only realize our true potential when we work together. "Rome wasn't built in a day," and it wasn't built by a single person, either. Some individual accomplishments may stand out when we consider how the world and society we live in today was shaped, but our world is the sum of all of these parts. "We stand on the shoulders of giants." People and accomplishments are made greater when they can build upon what came before. 

If we truly want to progress, we must continue learning and sharing and communicating. Competition may result in some gains, for some individuals or groups, but it results in losses for others. The result of competition is a constant struggle. It is difficult to take a step up without a stable platform, or when someone else is trying to pull you down. Cooperation seeks to bring everyone to the same level, to create that stable platform, so that everyone can progress without anyone having to backtrack, or being stepped over, or dragged back down. A collective desire for success will achieve far better results than an individual fear of failure. Thus, cooperation, not competition, is the true path to victory.



