   Is appearance more important than abilities? Are packages more important than what they contain? Are we sold on the cleverness of an advertisement even when they say little about the product? This is what I intend to find out. In this essay we will examine to the extent images and impressions have an impact on us.

   I take a strong position that a majority of people in civilized societies make a good majority of their  decisions based on images they see and the impression these images have on them. I do not believe that these people are grounded in reality. For that matter, I think some of them are unaware of reality altogether. 

   My first reason for believing this to be true is the state of our government. It has been proven time and time again that we have many corrupt politicians representing us. Yet, it seems like only a small amount of us are outraged by this. Are the rest of us not outraged because we don't care? I think not. I think they are not outraged because they are getting a stream of highly manipulated information they are basing their stance on. This could be main-stream media, websites, twitter, etc. These people it seems identify with their beliefs that were formed on impressions of nonsense. 

   I do acknowledge that some people may argue that main-stream media is reporting the facts. I do believe there is some truth to the news reported. Although, the best deception always incorporates a grain of truth. How often do these news outlets report on the ridiculous amounts of campaining money contributed to politicians and the associations with policy pushed for associated with these contributors. Seems to me the answer to this is never.

   This is a big problem. Its almost like people are being infected by a mental virus from consumption of misleading images and information. It robs them of their ability to be objective and rational. In conclusion, I believe a good deal of our problems may stem from people not perceiving things as they are, but by the way they have been presented.

 
  
