     I feel that images and impressions do in fact have too much of an effect on people, because many people are susceptible to suggestion. The media and advertisers try to push a narrative that they want the readers to focus on. Oftentimes, the advertisers are only concerned with making sales. They flood the media with ads that appeal to whichever the targeted demograpic is. I know for a fact, from previously being employed in the ad industry, that the bottom line is most important.
     What is troubling about this? Well, first of all- people want to believe that they are not being fooled. So many people happily read along with whatever nonsense is thrown at them, and they believe it word-for-word, because for them to question it would make them feel unsure. So the advertiser will bombard the reader with information that they feel is the best way to overload, and even confuse the reader into believing what they are presented with. 
      Images are easily manipulated by advertisers to show their products in a more favorable light. Also, politicians may put out statements and images that are taken out of context in order to sway the populace. There are many examples of this in the modern era. For instance, the China Virus or "covid-19" has been a sore point with me. The information is largely falsified in order to scare people into giving up their freedoms to the government, so that the government can supposedly help them. Many images of sick and dying people have been used to show the dangers of the virus; some of the photos we have been bombarded with are actually photos from the past and different medical situations and responses over time.
     It is a bunch of lies. The writers of these false stories are happy to lie to get their points across. Many celebrities are portrayed in a more favorable light due to the images presented or the persuasive way that publicists write. Most people only care about money and power, and to try to achieve this, they bombard us with nonsensical info and images so that we form certain opinions. This is mind control. This is how they contro a large number of people to be swayed by their tales.
      The truth is rarely seen in ads and government statements today.
