Superficial appearances can be seductive. Often times, so seductive that they cause people to act impulsively or against their own best interests. People may judge individuals based on outward beauty, rather than inward characteristics. People may spend money on products packaged attractively rather than researching the merits of the product inside. People may even base their political or social value systems on the input of influencers and/or spiritual or political leaders, based on the superficial appeal of these public figures, rather than take the time to understand the moral or ethical implications these values may have on the world at large. 

Though throughout history we have seen that individuals, public figures, and organizations such as retail sellers or manufacturers have strived to make themselves or their products visually appealing. In the past, there has been a barrier to spending or donating money, due to the limitations of non-digital commerce. If an individual wanted to buy a product or donate money to a political campaign or charitable cause, there was an inherent delay in doing so in person or through the mail. 

Now that we are in the digital age, that time barrier is virtually eliminated, and with it went the precious time that gave people the opportunity to think more deeply about the products they could buy or the money they might spend. They no longer have to physically enter a storefront, nor even fill out a catalog slip to buy a product. With the stroke of a few keys they can spend money, donate to un-vetted political campaigns or charities, or even associate themselves socially with influencers who true values they have no knowledge of.

Fortunately, the digital age also gives people the opportunity to do more research than ever before. The barrier to looking up news and journal articles has been mostly removed, and a trip to the local library is no longer required. In addition to using verified sources of information, people can also solicit the thoughts, opinions, and experiences of their friends and relatives on social media. This addition information is a bonus to the careful consumer, however savvy marketers are aware of the sway online reviews and opinions have over their targets and often employ the services of bot farms to overwhelm the genuine input actual customers or supporters make public in favor of false reports of satisfaction or support. 

The onslaught of information pushed towards potential customers, political contributors, or charitable donors can potentially do as much harm as good when individuals have a hard time discerning the true from the false. Those who have grown too accustomed to the instant gratification of online shopping or social media may find themselves conditioned against taking the extra time to make thoughtful descisions about purchases or donations. Understanding how much impact the digital revolution has had on our collective habits and psyche is vital to ensuring individuals can combat the temptation to make instant assumptions or decisions based on outward appearance or characteristics, and instead take their time to vet the way they spend money and the social connections they make based on more thoughtful and considered reasons.
