Modern society in America is full of materialistic intentions and it is seen in every aspect of our way of life.  Should modern society be critized for being materialistic?   That is the question that we will be addressing today.  Materialism, that is, the acquiring of possessions and spending money, is intertwined in to our everyday lives and is the basis of happiness for many.  Should this be the case?  It's a bit more complicated and requires us to dig a bit further into our everyday lives.

While watching television, we see advertisement after advertisement for new products.  These advertisements are there to get us to purchase as much as possible.  From the moment we start watching TV as a child, we are bombarded with these advertisements.  Mcdonalds happy meals, Mattel toys, Lego's, the list goes on and on.  These advertisements are there to target even the youngest of viewers.  Beyond the television, we have billboards, fashion shows, malls, massive big box retailers, bus stops with advertisements, busses with advertisements, the amount of materialistic advertising is astounding.  Our minds in modern society are constantly bombarded by the shear amount of ads seen in our everyday lives.  So to start, criticising the public for our turn towards materialism is a farce, as we were programmed to do exactly that by modern society. 

Some may say it is ultimately your choice to choose the lifestyle you live.  This is absolutely true, but we are pursuaded into materialism and it is literally engrained in society, school, work, every part of our everyday lives.  There is a small but expanding movement in this country to purchase tiny homes and other small groups that are fed up with this life of materialism.  This comes after decades of ever-expanding houses, the mcmansion era, new products, and expenses that is now the norm for society.  I don't believe this will continue, I believe this to be a fad that will go away just as quickly as it came.  I believe this to be true because of the shear amount of pressure in modern society to fit in.  The cookie cutter lifestyle, the american dream, whatever you want to call it, it's modern day materialism.  

Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic?  In my opinion, I say no.  We are practically force fed this information from birth to follow the materialism narrative and it's impossible to escape.  Modern society, with massive billion dollar corportations, just has to much sway in our everyday lives, too much money to throw at us to ensure we are spending even more and accumulating material in excess.  To criticize the people for following the exact path set forth on us by these corporations would be unacceptable.  If anyone is to be critized; it's the corporations, it's our government put in place to protect us, that is allowing it to happen.  If these advertisements and the keeping up with the Jones' tv shows continue, why would anyone act any differently?  For these reasons, don't be fooled, it is not the population creating this problem, and critizing modern society for this way of life, is throwing stones at the parties not responsible.  If you want to blame someone for materialism, it starts with the advertising agencies, television networks, billion dollar corporations, not the everyday working class American people.
