Materialism is ruining the planet. We live in an industrial paradise where many of us live in comfort that would have been unimaginable 200 years ago. The cost of our materialistic paradise is the planet itself.

I want my stuff because I'm materialistic. It comforts me. Someone makes my stuff. It's their job to make that stuff. It's mass produced in a factory by using our planet's resources. Our planet is out of balance because of our materialism.

Since the Industrial Revolution, Earth's temperature has raised a degree or two. Oceans are becoming unwholesome. Ice caps are melting. Weather patterns are becoming unreliable. The correlation is clear, but scientific models show it's happening because of burning fossil fuels to run our factories and to ship our stuff from factory to wholesale, to retail, to us.

Entire forests, which are irreplaceable, are being cut down to make houses and furniture. Habitats are being ruined and animals are going extinct. Earth needs those animals. Earth needs those trees. They help cool and clean the Earth.

Our stuff is wrapped up to protect it during shipping. What happens to all that wrapping? Not all of it is even recyclable. I just bought a mirror for my son. It came packaged in styrofoam. The mirror is glass -- nobody wants it to break. Styrofoam is cheap protection for glass. But what happens to that styrofoam? You can't recycle it. You can't eat it. Nothing can eat it. It will go into a landfill. Once it was part of the Earth. Now it's used styrofoam. Our seas are full of our trash. A significant amount of that trash is there simply because we're materialistic. It's not a tin of sardines I ate because I need food -- it's styrofoam because my son wants a mirror.

You might say, we simply ARE materialistic. Being materialistic is being human. Go to the Met in New York and look at ancient art. Look at Rennaisance art. All of these beautiful things to satisfy what? Materialism. I agree. My point is that industrialization made materialism toxic. It's the scale of materialism that's bad.

I love my stuff. For me, it's music gear. I make more than enough money at music to pay for my gear. But that's a pretty lame justification. I have more than I need and that's pure materialism. The old trees that are now my guitar once mopped up pollution.

We need to get used to being less materialistic if we want to slow down the bad stuff that's happening to the planet. Materialism isn't bad but buying lots of factory made stuff is killing our planet. This is why we can't have nice things.
