Most people strive to have a successful life. Some attain success while others do not. Success can be difficult to attain, some struggle for years and never reach their goals. Some seem to reach their goals almost effortlessly. I believe the key to success, in any aspect of your life, is easier to achieve with the help of others.

To become sucessful, most people try to find ways to achieve their goals as quickly and as easily as possible. While some prefer to only rely on themselves, I believe the smartest type of people rely on others to be successful. Many times when a person is focused on a goal and has come to a road-block they can spend immense time and effort on trying to find a solution. Sometimes, another person can give you a perspective that you are unable to see. People often have different strengths and weaknesses. A smart person will surround themselves with a variety of people who are successful at many different things. That perspective and way of approaching a goal can be the driving force to completing that goal and acheiving success.

Some also belief that when a success is a "team effort" that they don't get the credit they deserve when it has to be shared by others. While accomplishing success on your own can be rewarding, it can also that a great toll on a person physically, mentally and emotionally. Sharing those burdens with others can allow you to continue to achieve success without suffering "burnout" or quitting before success is achieved.

Sharing sucess and achieving goals with others can have a ripple effect in our communities, country, and world. When we work together and we feel successful together that can strengthen an economy, protect a community, and bring more happiness and good will to those around us. Sucess may be different things to different people but when we all copperate with each other that sense of achievement can reach out farther than those that are directly involved. It can reach their families, friends, community and so on. Those successful people can share the success with others and help those in need therefore improving the environment around them for everyone. 

Now it is true, that competition can be a great motivator to urge someone towards success, however, I don't believe it is the best way to achieve success. I believe that if the focus is to just "beat the other guy" this allows for work to be rushed and possible mistakes to occur. When your only focus is being the first and not being the best, are you truly successful. Hearty competion is good for most things but cannot be the only motivating factor.

When it comes down to being successful, I feel it is always better achieved with the cooperation and aid of others. True cooperation can have wonderful results in obtaining a common goal. When working together to obtain a common goal, people are capable of anything, especially success!
