Happiness has been an elusive goal for many throughout humanity's existance. Many people have written about it: both finding and losing it. One's own happiness is such a subjective subject that there cannot be a clear consensous on how to find it. There are so many factors that go into a person's happiness, and it is such an abstract idea. That being said, there are some general ideas that can guide one towards more happiness, not all true though. There are many sayings all having the basic meaning of if you focus on the happiness of the people around you, you will also be happy. However, focusing only on the happiness of others, or humanity at large can leave you feeling drained, unsatisfied and held hostage by uncontrollable circumstances and the whims of others. While only focusing on yourself will generally lead to conflict, one should look to themselves and their personal goals for personal happiness. 

While focusing on the happiness of others does usually leave a good feeling behind, it often covers for deeper feelings of unsatisfaction or even compromise. If one spends their live making the people around them happy at the cost of their own dreams, at the end of the day, their own life is forfeit. One's dreams and personal goals are that - personal. It's hard for other people to share in one person's dream, as they have thier own biases and beliefs about what that person should be doing. If one gives up their dreams and goals to make other's happy, they are sacrificing a wonderful and unique part of themselves. The achieving of one's goals and the fulfillment of one's dreams, if they are truly what a person wants leads to higher self-confidence, and contentment with the life they have created. At the end of one's life, they want to look back and feel accomplished and like they led the life they wanted - not what other's wanted. 

Ultimately, humanity is fickle. While one person can make a lot of difference, devoting oneself to a cause or to others is a life of sacrifice with often times no reward. One can put forward a lot of effort to make other's happy, but if those others decide to reject them or betray them, now the loss is that much greater. If one's happiness is left up to them to control, there is much less instability and risk. 

Happiness is a goal many have sought out throughout the centuries. Many different people have tried many different things to achieve personal happiness, and what works for one may not work for all. However, if one decides to focus on themselves and their dreams, at least they will have accomplishements to look back on fondly. There is a type of happiness in achievement that only relys upon oneself to do it. There is a balance to it, though if  one only focuses on themselves, personal relationships may faulter. Ultimately, with one's happiness having so many different factors, it will always be a thing to ponder and search for. 
