Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Materialism is when someone values material things. Material things are the stuff we buy like clothes, toys, and books. For the most part, we as a society are materialistic.

People do love to hate materialism. They will act like they are above it and do not need material things. They think the not wanting of material items makes them look better or more righteous than other people. It is one of the most criticized aspects of modern life. It is looked down on with such disdain. People hear music and other types of media like Madonna's "Material Girl" as a big negative.

Materialism does mean money. The more one buys it looks like the more money one has to spend. People like showing off the money they have. That part of materialism is wrong. That is about pride and can lead to envy. Pride and envy are two of the seven deadly sins. People should be happy with what they have and they should be happy with moderation. This is true. 

They, society, say things will not make you happy. That can be true. Material things cannot cure depression. They cannot heal an injury or cure someone from being sick. But they can make people happy in other ways. Playing a video game, winning a video game, can make one happy. One can find their time happily spent by playing the video game. Reading a book can bring knowledge as well as entertainment. Having clothes to wear can make a person feel good. Having clothes that fit and look good helps. One's mood can change just by the fit of the clothes. One can have too many clothes but it's not a bad thing to have new clothes.

There can be better ways to spend money. The money can be sent to charities to help third world countries or places hit by natural disasters. People can donate money to food and clothing shelters, battered women's shelters, and orphanages. They can use the money to pay bills. Some people are very into materialistic things that they end up not being able to pay their bills. 

Wanting and having things is not bad in and of itself. It can lead to bad things like going into debt, but just wanting material items is not bad. We should not criticize society for being materialistic.
