People are most happiest if they focus on their personal goals as long as they know what they want from life. It's figuring out what that is that is the problem, really. Knowing what you want from life depends from person to person. For example, I feel happiest when helping others. But that is me, and you should not focus on me but yourself.

Find out what makes you, yourself happy. Focusing on the happiness of others will often make you miserable. Happiness often comes from within and not without. There are ecceptions to the rule, of course; but in general, that's what happiness is. Each person is different. I, myself would rather make others happy after focusing on my own self.

If you as a person focus more on your personal goals, it, and you, will be better in the long run. Make yourself happy before focusing on anyone else. That's not to say you shouldn't help others, you should. However, you should focus on your own well being before anyone elses. The main question comes down to this: What makes you happy? Ask yourself that, I mean it.

Life is about give and take, that's true. But there is a point where you can give too much, and that is not good for the indivisual.  The problem becomes when that point is reached and surpassed. Figure that point out, and you will be all the better for it. Often people will give and give without questioning themselves 'am I giving too much?' 

What is too much depends on the person. It comes down to finances as well as your own moral compass. The problem is so many people's compasses are broken. And that, my friend, is the sad part of it all. So many are greedy for greed's sake. Just look at the wealthy 1 percent of people.

Society is broken, and until things are fixed to the point where people can as a whole be happier, I don't think things will get better only worse. We need to fix things, but how? That's the question everyone should be asking.

In conclusion, it's more important to focus on your own well being, your goals, before focusing on everyone else. So many people forget that truism. That's not to say you shouldn't be completely selfish, but selfishness is a part of focusing on yourself and less others.  People will be themselves, just as you are yourself. Thank you for reading and have a good day.
