It's said that the first sense anyone uses is their sight. It seems that sometimes companies and branding take advantage of that. But it goes so much more farther than a candy company putting bright and noticable labels on their product to convince someone to but their junk food at the checkout lane at the last second. The same concept has moved onto people; celebrities and influencers. 

I tend to agree that's it has gone way too far and equally as deep.

Think about it. Let's say there are two celebrities, one has a style that can be considered 'ecclectic' or 'out there', while the other one is more of a plain Jane, every day kind of person. Which of the two are you going to think of first when you think of people in their line of work? Probably the ecclectic one. I think this is because we as humans kind of fall into this mundane routine of waking up, going to work, taking care of the family, going to bed -- wash, rinse, repeat. And in that monotomy, there is an urge to break free from the routine. To seek out the colorfulness of the world. We sometimes just want to fantisize what it would be like to walk in that person's shoes. So, by having these thoughts of these celebrities, they've kind of one. What they want is for you to be thinking about them, talking about them. It's working. You're making their name stronger. You're going out and buying clothes to mimic their style.

Now, I know that there are some people out there who could not care less about image, whether it be their own or someone else's shown on television or the internet. And this is where the candy comes back in. It's the same concept on a different level. Say, you go to the store to get groceries for the week. You've made a meal plan, a grocery list. All of these tools to help you to get what you need and what you need only, maybe for the reason of budgeting or maybe you just don't want to have so much food waste at the end of the week.  You have a plan set from before the time you even walk into the store. Your shopping is all done. You've stayed on target; time and budget wise. You're in line. Suddenly, you see a candy bar. It's label is full of bright neon colors and perhaps some cute designs too. You weren't in the mood for chocolate until right now. You grab it because you think, 'it's no big deal.' But that one small movement alone is what these companies strive for. If one person buys their product because it was eye-catching, then another thousand are going to. For every person that doesn't buy it, there's going to be so many more who did. So they outweigh the ones who went against their judgment.

In a way, all of these advertisement are becoming detrimental to the every day consumer. Especially in this day and age. People are making less money, yet spending more on something because they saw that ABC celebrity or XYZ influencer had done an ad for it. They didn't need the product, could barely afford it, yet here they are. These advertisement companies more or less, prey, on these consumers.

You can't fault them, to a point. They're a business and a business' purpose is to make money - which they're doing. But it's at the expense of vulnerable consumers. The world has just become such a polarizing place when it comes to money. The ones who don't have a lot of it, want to spend it like it grows on trees but they don't have the means to. The ones who have a lot don't even think twice about spending a grand here or a grand there. Big CEO's don't have to worry about the upper class spending money, that's a given. They depend on the lower class and tight budgeted people making purchases because there are far more people in that lower tax bracket than there are in the higher one.

So, when a person buys a candy bar on a shelf or a pair of boots they saw a celebrity wearing, though it may not seem like a whole lot to a CEO sitting in his cushy office...it may mean everything to the consumer. It might have been a situation of making or breaking the bank with that last purchase. But people don't seem to really care about that any more. As long as people are buying a brand's product, they don't care about the consumer's financial situation. They got their money, end of story.

Yes, there is personal accountability for everyone's spending habits. But there is also a responsibility on the company's shoulders to not take advantage of their consumers. If they want to come off as caring and down to earth to everyone else, they need to really act like it. If your product is fantastic, then you don't need all the mind games, all the bells and whistles -- because if it's as good as you claim, people will buy it regardless. They don't need to prey on the consumers with the thinnest wallets. 


