Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people? It's a loaded question in the age of social media. Everything is about appearance and what things seem like. Many people's very livihoods depend on the impressions they give off to others. People's own self-worth can even come into question when they feel like they haven't put the image or impression they wanted to out there. So does it have too much of an effect? Absolutely. When it comes to wanting to share something online, especially creatively, it becomes a terrifying prospect that suddenly you are so vulnerable.

I live in limbo on the internet, myself. I have so many creative things I want to share with the world and I want to make friends who like the same things I do. I often think how I'd like to post something online but my fear of what people will think about what it looks like, or the impression they might get of me hold me back. What if someone judges me harshly? What if they tear apart something I put my heart and soul into? It just doesn't seem worth it.

But at the same time, one might say that there are tons of creative and beautiful things people have put out there on the internet. Isn't it amazing that people said "screw it" to their anxieties and posted what they've thought or made out there, for anyone to see or judge? Isn't it amazing that we can access it with just a few clicks on a keyboard or phone? There would be so many great creative communities that would never have been created, had someone let their fear of what something looks like or what impression they give off hold them back. 

Then again, it's perfectly valid to feel that fear. It doesn't exist for nothing. I have seen the darker sides of the internet, where people did put themselves out there and while they may on the whole provide and receive a positive impact, it's not all roses. People I have admired have been bullied for the way they look, or criticised when they were just trying to help all because someone got the wrong impression of them. Their art has been criticized when all they wanted was to share.

In summation, it's up to each indiviual whether they feel comfortable putting themselves in such a risky situation, because we can't help how much images and impressions matter to others. Sometimes keeping your favorite, most beautiful creative thoughts and art to yourself is the best way to protect it, so that no one can take your joy from you. It's an amazing thing when someone shares their heart and soul online in any creative form that that might take. But lets all check ourselves when our initial reaction is to judge people based on our first impressions. Don't forget that behind every image put out there was a person who brought that into being. All we can do is try to be kind and hope for that kindness in turn. 





