Hi I am Pia Sawadogo. I like to talk about Happiness. Some people are believe that happiness comes by pursuing their dreams and their own personal goals. Happiness is in helping a needed people, in children's face and other poor people. Many people are thinking that happiness is in buying some luxury things and racing towards to earn more money they think that is their only happiness. But that is not true.  

We need to change that concept to earn more money is a only happiness. Happiness is not in buying things or attain success in our  goals or dreams and money, it is in our soul. We need to know that happiness in living our life with our wants and needs only and peacefully. It cannot get by money also. Our inner happiness is the most important thing in our life. Goals or dreams are temporary it is changing by period to period so it is not going to gave a permanent happiness in our life.

We are searching where the happiness is but that is in ourselves. So live your life with what you have and fulfill your needs and wants only not by seeing others. This is my conclusion. Thank you for this opportunity to talk about the happiness. I really wanted to talk about this. Once again thank you.                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                     
                                       
