Happiness is something that is wanted by everyone that I know, but we all have difficulties finding it sometimes. I believe that happiness is something that can only be achieved if you focus on other people because of many reasons. Chiefly, it is that helping others can give you a much greater sense of worth and connection to your society than only focusing on yourself, allowing others to see you as a much better and valuable person. In addition, other people will appreciate your efforts more since it is coming from another person.

My first argument is that focusing only on yourself is unlikely to make you very happy, because you will get too caught up in your own wants and eventually find that you are simply obsessing over trivial issues. Since one person's issues are trivial compared to that of the greater society, I believe that you will find less purpose in your life by only trying to make yourself happy. As a result, it will be hard to be happy, since you will inevitably realize that you are not accomplishing anything truly worthwhile. Instead, if you focus on other people, you will see that you have a lot more space to improve society and the lives of others. For example, helping homeless people at the shelter will make a significant impact on the lives of those people and improve society for the better. Knowing that you helped lift the lives of so many individuals in a meaningful way will undoubtedly make you feel much stronger as a person and especially a person that is worthwhile in society. This will easily bring happiness to anyone, simply by knowing how valuable they are as a person and that their efforts have impacts that span across an entire society. In addition, it will also bring further happiness, especially when you can make new friends and connections through your work in helping other people. This will bring you a vast new network of people to connect with and integrate you into a larger cause. Having such a major purpose in life will definitely bring a person feelings of success and happiness, since they will feel that their life truly matters.

In addition to feeling a greater sense of achievement and success when focusing on others rather than the self, another reason that happiness comes more easily when focusing on others is that people tend to be too harsh on themselves many times. Therefore, if you only focus on doing things for yourself, you will likely always want more and more and never truly be satisfied. However, when you do things for other people, they will see that you are taking time and effort out of your day to focus on them. Therefore, they are much more likely to truly appreciate what you do for them and acknowledge just how much you are contributing and doing for them. Therefore, you are much more likely to see the good in your work and just how valuable you are as a person when you do things for other people than when you blindly only try to do things for yourself.

A counterargument may be that a person only has one life to live and should focus on themselves before anyone else. While this is not completely invalid, it is too close-minded, because it completely ignores the fact that helping others is a great way to boost one's own self-esteem and sense of worth. Therefore, helping others should not be seen as sacrificing but rather as a way for one to grow as a person. In this way, by focusing on others, you are also helping yourself out by making yourself see your own value and just how important you are as a person. This will be much more effective in bringing happiness than always focusing on yourself and more petty things.

In conclusion, happiness can be hard to achieve but only when you go about it the wrong way. Too many people try to get happiness by only focusing on their own needs and wants. However, this is not the best way, as it is hard to see the bigger picture when someone only does things for themselves and doesn't see that they have the ability to actually do things for the greater society and help turn it into a better place to live.
