This essay will address whether modern society should be criticized for being materialistic - in short, it should not. This essay will go analyze why.

Materialism is nothing new to society, and it is certaintly not exclusive to modern society. People, human beings, are hard wired to acquire stuff. Below the ash in Pompei many non-modern human beings were found buried with their possessions. It is not a leap to assume that many people died in Pompei while carrying their most valid possessions while trying to escape. If this assumption is correct than why should modern society be criticized for something that has been occrruing for thousands of years?

Of course, there are a few potential pitfals. First, we make the assumption that human beings died in Pompei while trying to escape with their most valuable possessions. Instead of an assumption, this evidence would need to be found to support this proposition. This evidence could be obtained by looking at archeological records ffor evidence that human being were killed in Pompei with valuable that would survive the decay of time. Furthermore, there is also the argument that while materialism has always existed, that modern society makes it worse.

In places like Pompei materialism may have existed, but modern times has provided the "basics," such as food and shelter for for many more human beings than was available thousands of years ago. Therefore, since more people have more time in which they do not have to worry about the "basic" necessities of living, more people have more time to pursue materialism, which is inherent to human nature. Therefore if modern society provides more free time, then it is enevitable that materialism would increase in modern society. However, how can modern society be criticized for creating a situation where human being are free to pursue material exploits as oppossed to spending the majority of their time on the basics of living, such as food and shelter? Materialism is the byproduct of an advanced modern society where many/most human beings don't have to worry about where to find their next meal and shelter from the next storm. Materialsim as the byproduct of this modern system should not be criticized, as materialsim is inevitable when the basic needs of human beings are met. 

While materials itself may not be a good thing or a produictive things, the advanced society that it stems from is a good things, and since materials and an advanced modern scoeity go hand in hand, where one cannot exist without the other, there is no reason why materialsim in modern society should be criticized. Human beings may be most productive, creative, and intuitive when searching for shelter and their next meal, but it is merely because human beings needed to pursue these things in the past in order to survive. The choice between a materialistic, but alive populace, versus a smaller, less materialisic, more productive society is not a hard choice. A modern society that supports a larger population by providing the basics is a good things - even if it leads to materialism. There are still those who will pursue productive, creative, intuitive endeavors, even if a modern materialsitic society - and the freedom to choose to be materialistic rather than productive is a good thing for human beings. Those who choose to be materialitic instead of productive and creative likely would not have made it prior to modern times, it is better than these human beings have a chance to pursue materialism, than to be devoid of life. In conclusion, materialsim is inevitable, but should not be critiicized in modern society for the reasons stated above.
