It is too easy to lead people on with images and quick impressions. The average person seems to look at the exterior of something, for instance, a package or a book cover or even a person as a whole, and judge the interior contents based on what they see. Unfortunately, humans seem to be shallow beings and it has only been getting worse with the introduction of the internet and social media.

When the average person scrolls through a social media app such as Instagram, they see product after product, and yet every one of these products has been retouched in some way, or claims to do something it doesn't. It may have fake reviews that give the consumer a sense of security, but really they are getting scammed time after time. It happens on eBay too, where Chinese sellers steal photographs of someone else's product, slap a cheap price tag on it, and say they'll get it to the buyer in three weeks. For instance, some women have gone on eBay to buy a designer wedding dress for less than $300.00, sending them their measurements so that it can be custom-made. They wait a month for it to arrive. Unfortunately, what arrives is a cheap rendition of the product, fits poorly, is the wrong color and has shoddy craftmanship. The buyer is out of their money and time. If people were more suspicious of how they could get something so beautiful for such a cheap price, they'd perhaps skip being scammed by cheap, dishonest, or untalented sellers.

Celebrities are guilty of it too. The Kardashians are an epic example of misleading advertising. The average person scrolls through Kim Kardashian's instagram account and sees a beautiful woman with a flawless hourglass figure. They then strive to get that figure, questioning why they can't look that way after months in the gym doing weighted hip-thrusts on a Smith machine. Little do they know, Kim Kardashian's figure is hardly perfect. She was photographed in Mexico in a thong and her glutes were riddled with cellulite, much like an average ordinary woman, only Kim Kardashian has had an incredible amount of plastic surgery done. Her behind is injected with fat, which makes it look huge and fabulous in retouched photos, but in real life it is ordinary, and somewhat alien-looking as it doesn't match her proportions. And yet they deny, deny, deny and claim they didn't get any work done at all. It's all a farse. It's all to sell their product and their brand.

People could avoid getting misled if they'd develop better critical thinking skills and look beneath the surface of object and appearances. Everything should be questioned and researched. If something looks too good to be true, then it probably is.  Split second decisions should seldom be made. Expectations should be more realistic rather than people hoping for the fantasy. Looks can be decieving, and often, they truly are. It is our duty to protect ourselves from people and things that misrepresent themselves.


