Have we become a society that places far too much emphasis on THINGS rather than EXPERIENCES? Should we criticize those that focus too much on what they have or do not have?
  If you log into any social media platform, you are bombarded with images of people's material posessions - cars, clothes, shoes, houses, couches, blenders, make up, cell phones, headphones, etc.  The list could go on forever.  So many of the influencers that you see on social media today are defined by what they have.
  I think that in the age of internet, people have become too focused on material posessions.  You are granted access into stranger's personal lives, seeing on a daily basis what material possessions they have and use.  This has created a culture of "keeping up with the Jones's" that is bigger than it has ever been. 
Social media makes it easy to compare material posessions.  Acquiring more things, bigger things, "better than yours" things has become the norm. 
  Back before the internet, we weren't privy to so much personal information about complete strangers.  The need to keep up appearances was still there, but not quite in the same way.  Back then, we took vacations, had experiences. Still spending money, but in a different way.  We believed in the adage "you can't take it with you" so our focus was not on material objects, but rather on experiencing everything that life had to offer.  Still materialistic in its own way as some people would compete to have bigger and better vacations, but there was not the need to showcase it to the world, nor was there really a way to do that. 
  I think that social media has brought out this competetion in people where they feel like they have to measure up to the standard that is presented. I do not think that this is something that should be normalized.  I believe that materialism needs to be a thing of the past and that people should get back to simple living and enjoying the experiences that life has to offer.  I also believe that it is time to stop idolizing those that seek to only flaunt their posessions. 

