What is happiness? Happiness can be found in a variety of places and scenes. Happiness could be the warmth of the sun on a peaceful day, a night out with friends you haven't seen in awhile, seeing the smile on someone else's face just by a small gesture from you, or maybe by a huge monetary bonus you just received. Everyones views happiness differently.

Is happiness found by focusing on your own personal goals or the happiness of others? I know personally for me, I find happiness when I am able to give happiness to others. I am the kind of person where keeping people happy, making people feel good, and allowing people the room to expand and grow is what satiates my need for happiness. I think it all depends on the kind of person you are - pessimistic or optimistic. Are you a narcissist or are you an empath? Narcissists only way to satiate their need for happiness is by focusing on themselves. Narcissists have zero anxieties or the ability to feel empathetic for other people - why would they ever care about anyone elses happiness? There is a large mental health aspect that goes into this question. How mentally healthy are you? I would say that narcissists are usually not mentally well, but still find utmost happiness because they only concentrate on themselves. Empaths feel everything and often that can make you uneasy - taking all of this emotion and overhwhelming feelings in and feeling everything. It can work both ways, right? You assist in others happiness, you can become happy from creating happiness. But, assisting in someone's sadness? Trying to pull them out from the depths to spark happiness can become hard for an empath as well. Happiness is hard to measure and also to create.

It is possible that there are some narcissists out there that are intrigued by making their partners and friends happy, because then they have more control over the situation. But, I believe the fact still stands that even if a narcissist is wanting to make people happy, it is only because at the end of the day, they want something for themselves. An empath cares deeply for other people. An empath expands their mind and heart to allow to feel what others may feel. An empath will usually seek out happiness for themselves, by arranging happiness for others.

In conclusion, I believe it all depends what kind of person you are as to if you are more likely to be happy by focusing on your own personal goals or by focusing on the happiness of others. Every one is different and ticks a little differently. Brains are formed differently and lives have different backgrounds. How were you brought up? What did you see in your parents when you were little? Maybe it was a combination of both situations. As you become an adult, I think you choose which path you want to take. You choose whether you want to be an empath or a narcissist. You choose if you want to be happy by focusing only on yourself, or by allowing happiness in by giving happiness to others.
