Modern society should not be very concerned about materialism because having things is mostly a part of what makes us the version oof human that we are today. We started as a nomadic species and then moved to better and better versions of that until we made what we have today. The problems surrounding materialism and the uses that come out of its production are where we should be questioning ourselves instead of the action of exchanging goods for goods. Exchange is where we place our opinion and so needs to be questioned from multiple perspectives and directions due to the fact that there are many different kinds like money for money, or credit for physical property, and physical property as collateral.

Because we like too make things and do things with tools as well as just adorn things we create our own need for material items, goods, etc. We have learned over time that with use of objects we can perform better in our daily tasks and make time for ourselves to enjoy other activities that help us in other ways.  The fact that materialism exists allows for our populations to branch out and create more things, either productive or hedonistic, to fill needs that individuals can have when they express their preferences and explore the nuances of those personal interests.

Money itself is also a materialistic experience and can have exchange with itself through growth or translation to other iterations of itself. Property can be leveraged to maximize its value down to such a degree that even fractionos of a cent can be the basis of an opinion, like when you get a little extra sugar in your tea. Money's representation as a factor of transaction is confusing and can be where criticizing materialism can run into complications. In some instances money only works backwards against the user with compounded conflicts. In others money compounds itself slowly over time as an exchange of ability. And in some still, money can iterate itself so rapidly that it creates disruption around it, and more conflicts arrise in how the exchanges because of it are made.

Materialsm is surrounded by a lot of questions about opinion and questions about presentation. Those questions only really get answered through use and the understanding of its purpose over time as a person gains insight on what exactly they like and how they want to express that interest. The interests around the materials being used by the person can come into conflict with the needs of a larger group.  But at large the group itself has a preference and a range of presentations that it also finds to be likable. Re-presenting a need for goods, tools, and other materials in order to allow for the group to represent its productivity and motive. 

Acquiring posessions and spending money has a range of use cases.  Most of those uses get defined as useful by the user. If there is a pattern of that kind of exchange creating space for the betterment of a population then that pattern is open to growth with criticism. Society being criticized for its adoption of a method of self expression would be the wrong way to look at the topic. Instead society being criticized for not making enough gains in how we acheive a system that uses materialism responsibly should be where focus is placed.
