Humans are multifaceted and complicated beings. Humans have a drive to be sucessful in life which is rooted in our genetics and DNA. For example, Neanderthols and early humans needed to compete with other humans, mainly early male humans, to reproduce and pass on their genes. This need to reproduce can be seen in hunting behavior and being able to provide food and other neccesities better than another competing human thus asserting them as the "dominant male". While humans are driven to be competitive, throughout time and evolution humans developed additional skills and abilities. As seen in the example about early humans being competitive, humans presently are competitive when it comes to meeting the needs and goals of their social and professional lives. However, humans are social creatures that thrive to form connections with others to complement their weakness and extenuate their strengths. While both being competitive is important to suceed being cooperative aligns more with the ability to be sucessful especially in the workplace. Therefore, being cooperative is more likely to be productive not only for one's self but overall. 

Humans are social creatures that form connections with others to suceed and meet their needs. While being competitive may be important to suceed there are multiple issues with this claim. For example, each person has their own strengths and weaknesses. Take for example working on creating a new software program. A development team is composed of many people such as engineers, software developers, coders, marketing team, etc. Each person is specialized in their own field and one person can not simply do everything. A coder may be good at writing code for the program, however if they are not comfortable or able to market the software to possible consumers than they would not be able to launch the product or make people aware of the software. Similar to a person in marketing, if a person does not have coders to make the program than their is nothing to market. While some people maybe able to do both, they are stretching their resources among both being a coder and marketing the project and thus instead of being competitive and doing everything to be the "main person" at the risk of lacking in other areas of the projet it would be better to work as a team and have each person who is best at a particular role play that role. In addition, while people may feel that they need to be competitive in order to avoid distress from failure and to capitialize on personal victories. However, when working together and cooperating with others in fact longer lasting and more significant acomplishments can be achieved. 

Overall while there may be a drive for humans to be competitive to be the "best" often times that is not the best option, especially in current life. Each person has different skills and weaknesses which are complemented by others who are experts or better in a particular field. Thus, espcially in the work field and other social fields it's important to work together with other's (being cooperative) rather than doing everything independently to be known as the "alpha person" through competition. 
