When I was younger, my grandmother would tell me stories. Her stories often times referenced her own childhood. She would recite how happy she was growing up with her brothers and sisters, playing outside, making memories. My great grandmother and great grandfather had ten children; they were extremely poor. There was a point in time where my grandmother slept in a shed with wooden 2x4s nailed into the inside beams. Each child would sleep on one of those 'shelves'. No air condition, no electricity, no bathroom, nothing. Just her, her siblings, and the fun times that eventually turned into fond memories. My grandmother's family had no money. They could barely afford food and shelter for their kids. However, my grandmother grew up happy. Her happiness didn't come from physical possessions or the money in a bank account. Her happiness came from the interactions she had with the people she loved. 

Materialism is a plague that has been sweeping through our country for years now. Instead of focusing on the intrinsic things that can give us happiness, we focus on the extrinsic physical objects to give us happiness. Instead of focusing on quality time spent with family, the beauty of nature, etc., we have been conditioned to base our happiness off of how much stuff we have. But, can money truly by happiness? It is the opinion of this paper that, in fact, money cannot buy happiness, yet society should not be criticized for trying to do so. 

The emergence of social media and the constant barage of the new 'hit' sensation has caused the last few generations to grow up believing that this is the way to be happy. I'm not sure if I would go so far as to 'criticize' modern society for being too materialistic, but I would definitely say it is a concern. Adults are more concerned with 'keeping up with the Jones's' then truly evaluating whether those materialistic possessions create happiness for them. Because, I believe that if our society did truly look within themselves and question what made them happy, it wouldn't be the physical possessions that make us happy, but the memories we make, the people we interact with, and the relationships we build. That is what makes us happy.

Criticize is a strong word. People are just trying to do what they believe is best for themselves and their family. Social media, televisions, celebrities, etc. have engrained into us that being like 'them' is the way to be happy. So, we strive to buy newer and more innovative objects to make us happy. The overarching idea is admirable: to be happy. The desire to be happy should not be criticized. However, the way in which we have dediced to achieve happiness should be. 

Some people will undoubtedly claim that money makes you happy and that physical, material things can help you achieve that happiness. It is true that money can buy a lot of stuff. However, someone can spend all of the money they have on a physical possession, and still not be happy. My grandmother had no money growing up. She was as happy as she could be. She wasn't materialistic; she didn't have that option. But, given the ability of hindsight, she would not change how she grew up. Sure, money may have bought more food on the table, or a family vacation, or a fancy car, but all of the money in the world could not have bought her the memories she made with her siblings. Money would could not have bought her the close relationships she honed with her siblings, those same relationships she has to this day (65+ years later). 

In conclusion, yes, money can make things easier on an individual. Money can buy many things and can allow you to do many things. However, money cannot truly buy happiness. Therefore, though modern society should take a good look in the mirror to evaluate the true source of their happiness, I do not believe that modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. Society is trying to survive in a time period in which they are constantly being told this is what they should be doing. The more stuff you have, the better off you are. We shouldn't criticize society for wanting to be happy. However, we also shouldn't condone excessive materialism as well. There needs to be a balance. It is unrealistic to believe that society can get back to a time where material things don't matter. That time has passed. But, we can strive to put importance less on the materialistic possessions we have and more on the relationships we have and happiness we create. 
