We live in an age of mass production. Any item the average person could want can be theirs, with enough work put in. Our society revolves around this practice; work to earn money, spend money on goods and services, create more goods and services with that money, and grow and grow and grow. This has ramifications that we turn a blind eye to. Environmental, political, and societal, this culture we have developed is rooted deep, and it may be difficult to fix the flaws in the system before it's too late. For the damage that our uncontrolled consumption poses, it is my opinion that modern society is indeed too materialistic.

When we allow our industries as much free reign as they currently poses, there are sure to be ecological consequences. Every year, every month, we see in the news cycles more horrors that are directly or indirectly caused by eager corporations with little accountability. Oil spills, lead in drinking water, deforestation in the Amazon, acidification of ocean water, PFAS in the rain. This is just a short list of problems created by mass production. Were companies held responsible for their messes, it may not be as bad as it is today, but rather than spend a little more money towards sustainability, they opt for the cheaper desecration of life.

Anyone who might have an issue with this is all but powerless to do anything about it. While voter issues are a strong point for political campaigns, so are campaign funds. While some do contact their representatives over these issues, it's difficult for our government to want to do anything with lobbying allowed. Then with the internal fighting of the two party system, they're more concerned with term cycles than with getting any regulation in place.

Our obsession with possession damages our society too. Just as a specific case, take prisons. As long as prisons are allowed to sell labor, what is the incentive for reform? Less prisoners would mean less money. Less arrests means less government funding. With a society built around profits, any industry will take the path of least resistance, or applicably, the path of most income. While it would be impossible to have no crimes, as long as there is incentive to have more prisoners, there will not be a strong enough push for reform. Personally, I believe a society that fails its citizens in pursuit of profit is indeed too materialistic.

In conclusion, as consequence of our ingrained materialism, we allow unnecessary suffering, both in the present and future. Were we focused less on consumption and more on the good of our fellow citizen, we would surely benefit as a whole.
