     Materialism in modern society should be critizied.  As we work and work to build our funds, we are constantly told we should buy this or buy that.  We could be using these funds to be helping other people or bettering our own situations in life, or the situations of those less fortunate, if we were not being barraged to spend our money on these capitalist ventures. The way that modern socety focuses on the next new thing while throwing away what was hot previously shows that material things hold less and less meaning. 
     Take a moment and think about the things you have been bombarded with to buy.  Whether it is designer clothes or the next Apple product, whatever you currently have will be looked down on once the new item comes out.  This constant replacement of material items that are in perfect working order is a complete waste and a drain on the resources of society and of the planet as a whole.  The amount of waste generated by industries focusing on the next new product is astounding.  Waste sites are being filled at an alarming rate with items that are easily still usable but are being disregarded simply because a newer version came out.  This material waste caused by a materialist society could very well lead to there being a lack of resources in the future for important projects that would benefit all of society as a whole.
     If you look back through history, we as a people have placed value on things that last.  Items that can be used for long periods of time reliably.  Only in the last 100 years has that really begun to change.  People used to make their own clothes and when they outgrew them, they would pass them to the next person so that they would have something to wear while also using what was already available.  This meant that resources lasted in society for a longer period of time which leads to less destruction of valuable resources in our economy and the planet as a whole.  While some items may not be the best of the best, they are still viable for use and it only makes sense to continue to use something that is in a usable state.  Our ancestors understood this and though they may not have had the means to produce at the capabilities of todays manufacturing, they were sure to produce items that would have use for time to come.  
     There will be those that say that the material aspects of the world should be fullfilled as we only live once and if we aren't enjoying what we have, then why are we living?  These people are living in the moment and take their material possessions as a form of gratitude.  There will be people who think that having the newest items or the most expensive items puts them in a class above other people, but at the end of the day we are all the same.  The only difference is whether or not we have the disposable income to spend on these trends.  
     Placing a value on a person because of their material ownings is shallow at best.  Not everyone has the means to be able to afford 200$ shoes every month when a new pair comes out.  Not everyone has the money to afford the next Gucci or Prada drop.  In a materialist society, these people would be looked at as a lesser group of people,  the have-nots if you will.  We are constantly given the choice to spend our hard earned money on material things that may give a little pleasure but at the cost of potentially furthering our own situations.  Materialism should be met with a level of caution and respect.  While everyone should be able to have the things that make them happy, they should also have the things that are going to improve their life and the lives of those around them.  Sometimes money can't buy happiness.
