In my opinion, people achieve more success by cooperation than by competetion. Competition can be helpful as a motivating factor, or to help one engage and focus on a certain activity. However, in many workplaces and industries, working with others as a team leads to increased productivity, efficiency, and success. This is exemplified by my own job in healthcare, which I will be using to support working through cooperation over competition.

I work in the medical laboratory of a hospital, which involves rigorous, fast-paced testing to ensure patients are receiving timely care. This is especially important in the areas that I specifically am assigned to, hematology and cytogenetics. With all the samples circulating throughout the lab, as well as the urgency to complete testing, we must all work together to do certain tasks instead of trying to solve a patient case alone. In healthcare, competition is absolutely inappropriate, because technicians and doctors are working for the patient, not for themselves. As long as we are doing our best as a team to ensure quality control and accurate results, we all feel important and significant.

One of the biggest differences between cooperation and competition is communication. Again, working in the hospital laboratory would be disastrous if we were not communicating with each other about testing progression, sample quality, patient status, et cetera. A competitive workplace would involve very independent work in secretion, causing incohesion among all employees. Lack of communication on any team, regardless of the assignment at hand, would quickly result in the downfall of the organization. 

Another field which applies to my career and studies is scientific research. The research field is an example of how competition may contribute to success, but research still would not exist without cooperation among teams. Individually, research teams are constantly working together to perform testing and collect data. Competition adds motivation due to the possibility that other scientists are working on similar projects. However, this also means that scientists are withholding certain data, results, and conclusions that may be helpful for other projects. This then has negative consequences regarding the implementation of treatments or significant discoveries.

Competition can provide encouragement, motivation, and hard work among staff, but it also leads to disorganization, ultimately leading to lower productivity. Especially in projects with time constraints, cooperation is the key to success, as it combines the ideas and skills of all people involved, allowing for a greater result. If all industries worked together rather than remained divided amongst each other, I think the world would be a significantly better place.

