We as a society place to much emphasis on appearence. The appearences of people, how products are sold to us on false appearences. How someone looks or the overall image of that person is often times more important than what that person can do. Advertisements use visuals that often times have nothing to do with the product they are selling. We as a society should stop focusing on the unimportant things, and focus on what really matters. I believe that what someone has to offer is far more important than their appearence or image. What a product is or can do is more important than a false narrative based on bogus ads. Lets examine a few scenrios.

If you have a President dealing with a national threat. Does their outter appearence or image matter at that time? No, their ability to handle the situition is all that matters. How visually appealing or cool the person seems doesn't matter at that time. Sadly, many people are overlooked and judged on their appearence, raither than their abilities. 

Advertisement often times have visuals that play to this nature. Most the time the visuals of an advert have little to nothing to do with the product. I'm reminded of the old Marlboro commercials. They sold the idea of a rugged cowboy living the cool life on a ranch. What does this visual have to do with Marlboro cigarettes? The answer is nothing. 

You may ask. What is this harm in a nice visual ad, or making the ad more enjoyable. Take for example the Marlboro commercials. The false sense of cool created by the commercials could entice people to start smoking that normally would not. That is dangerous.

We need to break away from this type of thinking and get back to focusing on what really matters. Judge people for their abilites not their apperence. Judge products on what they really are, not false narratives that make dangerous things seem cool. If we do this we can stop praising people that have no value just because they are cool or good looking. We could stop dangerous trends from starting, like smoking. The world could be a better place.
