There is a saying that goes, "Money can't buy happiness". Happiness is supposedly something much deeper than a wealthy woman's pockets. However, doesn't it feel good to have something you've always wanted? To finish paying off that credit card debt, or the car you bought three years ago? Modern society cannot be criticised for materialism because there are so many things you can only obtain through buying them. The truth is, money controls the world right now and you need it to achieve even the basics, such as putting a roof over your family's head.

Everyone has a love for at least one thing that's tangible. It can be a book, strawberries, dogs -- you name it. But in order to get those things, you'll more than likely need money to buy them. If someone were to claim that books can be loaned and strawberries can be grown, that would be incorrect. There are many places where library cards are not free, so you're still paying to access those books. Fruit and vegetables can be grown, yes, but purchasing seeds is the only way to start them from scratch. That puppy or kitten you find on the street will also need food so survive, won't it? They can't get the proper nutrients they need unless you go out of your way to buy them. Not to mention, a place of your pet, or your family, to live in. Unfortunately, houses are growing more and more expensive so in order to provide an adequate living space for your family, you'll need a lot of money to buy or rent it. Materialism goes so far beyond the shoes a popular influencer is wearing, and designer sunglasses. Those things can be important to someone as well, but the fact of the matter is that you need money to live in this world.

Of course, some argue that happiness can come from within. For those that have experienced trauma, healing from that pain is going to require a lot of time, love, and understanding. These are things that can't be obtained with money. Issues with body image or having a dislike for yourself cannot be changed unless you finally learn to accept yourself the way you are. Friends, family -- those bonds are formed through spending time together and going through hardships. While these are very important and affect your quality of life, it's hard to do any of those things if you don't have the money for a stable home environment.

In conclusion, materialism isn't something society should be criticised for. While self-love and relationships aren't something you obtain with money, you'll probably need it in some way to keep them up. Not to mention, materialism can hold a deeper meaning for a plethora of people, especially those that aren't rolling in dough.
