Living in America, I personally have grown to recognize the competitiveness that comes with being successful. We are taught that fighting against each other while in turn pushing yourself to be the best of the best is the definition of success! It starts as kids when we are pushed in sports and continues on into adulthood as we enter the work force. Many are arguing against this idea though, and leaning more towards collaboration and cooperating with one another being the true key to success. So is it competition or is it cooperation that builds long lasting success, whether you are in America or not?

Being a 29 year old entrepreneur, I have tried the method of being competitive and pushing myself to be the best of the best in my field and it lead to extreme burn out and such a lonely feeling, which is not something that is sustainable. After living the experience of being stuck in a competetive mindset, I believe that collaboration and cooperation may actually be the key to success, versus competition.

I don't believe it's a one solution answer when it comes to this topic, but I do believe that one of these outweighs the others and that's when you will achieve true success. It's always important to push yourself to grow and to be better than you were before, but this can be done on an individual level, instead of turning it into a group project. There's doesn't need to be rewards for being the best of the group, but instead we could be rewarded for being better than we were ourselves. That would allow us to push to grow, and to compete with ourselves instead of creating the environment of tension in the group. I believe competitiveness only creates burn out and doesn't allow us the time and space to be apart of our growth and I think this highly effects the sustainability of our success. Burn out means we hit a moment of success, but then it will eventuallt fade away because we can't keep up that level of momentum. Working in a cooperation will allow longevity ehich in turn make take longer to achieve, but it is lasting.

I am fully aware that to reward ourselves instead of being rewarded for being the best of the best, that would mean that most business models would have to change and that this would require people to have a completely different mindset in life in general, however I believe it would eliminate a lot of the ego and bring us back to our true selves. Many people think that people these days are too focused on themselves, and while I do believe that we should not eliminate group involvement or competetion as a whole, I do not agree that people are too sell centered. I think we are just breaking generational curses and not settling for less anymore.

In conclusion, I believe that success requires more cooperation and less competitiveness and while I do not agree we should eliminate one or the other, and that they do work together, we should focus more on coming together to grow on an individual level, and in turn that would allow us to cooperate better as a team. This would allow us to also create lasting empires and businesses for our families and would bring the people together again, which would relieve so much tension in the world and would create better relationship skills, which again is such a perk. People need to have better communication and relationship skills! I think this would do the world so much good, especially here in America.
