What is happiness? The answer will depend on the person and most likely, the age of the person. Young children would certainly say that happiness would come from getting their desired toy or that piece of candy on the shelf. As people grow, they sometimes discover that happiness doesn't arrive in a neat little box with a pretty bow. Sometimes happiness comes from looking outward and trying to make the world a little bit better. 

There is a famous story about heaven and hell. A person found himself in hell. Many people were seated around a beautiful table set with crystal dishes filled with all manner of delicious food. The people were all angry and frustrated because the only way they could feed themselves was with the forks and spoons that were attached to their hands. The problem was the forks and spoons were exceptionally long and the people couldn't get the food to their mouths. Even with all of the food on the table, they were all starving. The same person then went to heaven. There was the same beautiful table set with crystal dishes filled with all manner of delicious food. The people  had the same forks and spoons attached to their hands. However, instead of the people being angry and frustrated with not being able to eat, they were all happy and eating. Why? Because they were feeding each other. 

So yes, humans can be very selfish and try to reach their happiness by ignoring everyone around and focusing on making money and working towards the next bigger car or the biggest house or the nicest pool. But humans don't live in a vacuum; we live on a planet that we share with others. If a person tries their best to make themselves happy, they may succeed. At least one person will be happy. But it might be better to try and focus on making others happier and the world a better place. In that way, they are creating happiness exponentially. 

The preamble of the constitution of the United States states that we all have the right to "the pursuit of happiness". Perhaps the best way to reach the pinnacle of our happiness is to not just pursue it out for ourselves, but to pursue it for everyone to that every human has the chance to be happy. 








