While some emphasize competition as the primary way to achieve success, others might argue that cooperation is most important. Competition may act as a strong incentive in order for people to work harder than they would otherwise, but cooperation ultimately pushes people towards greater heights of success. This happens as work done by multiple people will most often be able to overtake and find more success than the of a sole individual, especially as when people are in collaboration with one another, each individual can share only their strengths to what is being created while critical feedback from others can cover up blindspots.

One of the primary ways in which working together leads to more success compared to a sole individual who is motivated by how he does against others, is that the quality of ideas is elevated when multiple people are able to bring unique strengths to cover up each others weaknesses. A sole individual may have blindspots that mean that he is not aware of some of the worst qualities contained in his work. Let's say that a group of three people are working against a single highly motivated and competitive individual, to see who can create the best app idea. The three people can pool each of their strengths, talents, and skills, and create an idea which avoids some of the blindspots that the sole individual will be less likely to fully grasp, as he cannot communicate his ideas to other people and receive critical feedback.

Although there are many cases of sole individuals who have been widely successful and have done great things, it is extremely rare that these people, despite being highly motivated and competitive in nature, cannot, most truthfully, attribute a large part of their success to the people around them and the cooperation that comes with always bouncing ideas off of each other and being self reflective as a result of that process. Some might argue that competition is necessary in order to make people highly motivated while cooperation does not necessarily motivate individuals, but it is more that cooperation only leads to more success if those that cooperate with each other are themselves competing against other groups or individuals. One might make the conclusion, therefore, that people achieve the most success when these work in tandem, where cooperation is aided by competition against some "other" who is not involved in the group which cooperates.

Cooperation allows people to ahieve more success than by competition alone, but ultimately if they are mixed together, people can reach greater heights than if they did not have both, in order to keep them motivated, and to keep them in check--constantly communicating ideas to others and recieving critical feedback.
