Happiness is an elusive concept. Everyone has their own definition of it, even as we are all striving to achieve it. It is often conflated with satisfaction and contentment. The Western point of view tends to lean towards the individual being responsible for their own happiness, and that it must exist independently of anyone and anything else. It must be internal or it isn't real, and we risk losing it. Happiness is simply an emotion, and like any emotion, it will always be in flux. There is no permanent state of happiness, and we only decrease our chances of experiencing it when we overly focus on trying to force it to remain. Focusing on increasing community amongst people, and meeting the basic essential needs of our society, would increase our overall satisfaction, contentment, and chance at experiencing happiness.

Fixating on goals and achieving them lights up the reward centers in our brains. Pursuing our dreams can grant us motivation, determination. But, it can also make us ruthless, restless, reckless and careless. In the pursuit of goals, depending on how distressed one may feel, we may lose sight of the bigger picture. We may spite the community and justify it by explaining it away as the necessary evil to accomplish what we, the individual, 'deserves'. For example, weight loss goals typically require less socializing. We don't trust ourselves to not take advantage of foods and drinks that don't align with our diet plans. We lose out on bonding time, memories, possibly making new connections. People who want to become rich may cut corners, scam others, take opportunities away from others in service to their personal goals. There can be very 'any means necessary' energy when it comes to the dogged pursuit of personal goals. Again, this is through the lens of western culture, which encourages a more "dog-eat-dog" attitude in regards to getting what one wants out of life.

This attitude toward personal goals may seem extreme. The reality is, personal goals are certainly important. However, if they cost us our humanity, we must reassess. The improvement of society is something everyone benefits from. When the quality of life improves for us all, it makes it easier for us to see and think clearly. We may find that we have different goals than we initially thought. When the community is doing well, it makes it easier to support one another, as opposed to constantly viewing each other as competition. Thus, we are more likely to support one another, making it easier for us to achieve both common and individual goals. A collective increase in satisfaction, directly leads to increased well-being and happiness for us all. 

Happiness isn't meant to be forever, and certainly isn't meant for the few. Focusing on 'us' vs focusing on 'I' would lead to greater happiness.  





