The fact is, images and impressions have too much effect on people.  The physical appearance of anything, may it be an individual or a product being sold, has a lot of weight when it comes to people's perception.  It might sound shallow to say so but whether we like it or not, our initial judgements come from our visual experience since it is the quickest sense we have that delivers.  I mean sure, sound travels faster but an object doesn't talk or a person who is capable of talking might not say anything to you out of shyness or for multitude of other reasons. This is why initial impressions aren't very reliable. Unfortunately, this intial impression might be the only time anyone or anything can make an impression to someone.  If not given another chance, a bad initial impression could stick for a lifetime as far as the individual who had that experience is concerned.  
If we think about it from a more primal perspective, humans are built with senses to help our fight or flight instincts.  Initial appearances takes on that much more importance because to whoever sees it, the brain then tries to learn by assessing the situation and confine the images to safe or not safe.  The categories of safe or not safe can then be further familiarized by our brains as either pleasant or not pleasant.  
Of course, we can't confine humans to just our senses.  Humans are much more complex than that.  So, given that images and impressions has too much effect on people, people are also capable of looking beyond apperances.  We can't underestimate that humans base their judgements not just on senses but from experiences and relationships. Humans have their own checks and balances on how they perceive things.  And that is built differently from one person to another beginning from first impressions to relationships built over time. So, if there are more chances of building a good image or a good impression, an initial impression could change and this sort of thing happens all the time.  The key is how many times can an individual have positive encounters with that one thing, may it be a product or an individual. 
So yes, images and impressions have too much effect on people but that's not all there is to it. I trust that humans have the capability of looking past superficiality if we choose to do so.  Of course, one could argue that not everyone can properly judge when to do so given the amount of superficial lifestyle there is around us made largely visible by social media. But then comes the heart which is another factor us humans use to help make our judgements.  But that for another argument.

