Happiness is the core of a humans fundamental desire in life. In this life, we strive to find what happiness is. I was always told as a young child that happiness is the american dream. However, people have often questioned what is the source of happiness. Some question whether or not happiness is found in achieving your own goals, or if happiness is found in the happiness of others. In this essay, I believe that happiness is more likely found if one focuses on their own personal goals. 

First, I am currently someone who is unemployed. I was laid off from a job that I loved and thoughroughly enjoyed. It broke my heart that the company that I worked for went under, the reason is because that job was a goal that I had set for myself. Since losing my job I found myself depressed and hopeless. However, as I began to formulate another goal, my happiness was returned to me. I believe the reason is because I once again felt like I had a purpose in life. Nobody would be happy laying around at home all day watching netflix. Humankind needs some purpose, or some goal to work towards. I know once I reach a certain goal, I find great happiness in myself. 

Second, happiness comes from working hard. Just like everything in this life, no one gets anything for free and happiness is no exception to that. However, unless one has a personal goal behind the actions that they do, they won't find that happiness. I believe that joy is in the journey, and part of that journey is progressing towards a goal that one sets out. An example of this is losing a vast amount of weight. For some people, they need to lose like 100lbs. It's a really hard task to do, for some it might seem impossible. But the number sets out a goal for someone to strive to work towards. Once someone reaches that goal, they feel extreme happiness. But a lot of that happiness also comes from their journey and seeing how each day they get closer and closer to their goal. Therefore, happiness comes from working hard towards a goal. 

Many people will argue against me as they believe that people are more likely to be happier if they focus on the happiness of others. Though for many, including myself, that does make me happy, However if one thinks about it, that type of hapiness comes from an underlying goal that one has set out, and that goal is to become a good person. As a child, it was always emphasized that we should be good people. That our goal in life is to be good. When someone finds happiness in others, especially if they are the cause of that happiness then that in turn pushes them closer to their own goal of being a good person. There is a goal towards everything. 

In conclusion, though many things can cause happiness to an individual, it is most likely that happiness comes from following your own goals. There is nothing wrong with finding happiness through our own personal goal. Because many times, finding happiness in that goal can result in the happiness for others. 

