I believe that modern socieity can rightly be criticized for being materialistic.  Setting aside my personal feelings against materialism from a faith-based perspective, there are other compelling reasons why a materialistic society, in the modern age, is detrimental to human society at large.

Modern society is not necessarily more materialistic than other socieities from recent and ancient history--though the materialistic tendencies of modern socieity tend to be more widespread through the various social classes than was possible in the past.  The world is, however, much more connected now than at any time in history, and we have the technology both to communicate freely, and to move matierals globally in ways that greatly affect how notions and habits can spread from individual areas to the global society as a whole.  This increase in technology and communication also means that, for the first time, we probably have the means, as a society, to meet most or all of the needs that individual humans around the world have.  There's a fairly modern proverb "with great power comes great responsibility" (which, I believe, was coined by Stan Lee for Spiderman), which should apply here.  If we are finally able to meet the needs of everyone, than the responsibility to do so should be felt greater, and the hoarding and waste of resources by parts of socieity, while others are suffering great need, is a greater error than it would have been in the past.

As a modern society with the level of technology we have, we're also far more aware of the impact that our materialistic consumption, and waste products thereof, are having on the environment around us.  Being aware of that detrimental impact, while still pushing for more and more stuff we often don't actually need, will, in the end, push us into an untenable place where we've destroyed our environment and/or left a horrible mess for future generations to deal with.

As modern society has both more ability to quantify the problems we cause globally, and more ability to communicate with others and move materials around in our global market, we have more responsibility to dial back our over-consumption and live in a way that is sustainable in the long-term and profitable for society as a whole.  The longer we allow individual greed and traditional structures of consumption to supercede our best interests the more we deserve, as a society, to be criticized for our materialism.
