     Have you ever purchased a bag of chips and opened them, only to see that a fourth of that bag is actually filled with chips? Why did you spend that $4 dollars or more on that eye-catching, shiny bag of what seems to be half-eaten chips? Was it the logo? The packaging? Many things that we see every day are used to grab our attention, but are they really what they seem to be? 

     Our first stop is the grocery store. Here you will find isle after isle of products. All of them have their own distinct name, label and logo which is strategically produced to get us to buy them. Not only is the packaging important, but also the placement. Products that are placed on the shelves that are eye level, are the top selling, name-brand items and they are pricier. Items that are placed on the bottom shelves cost less and are usually the off-brand products. But which ones are better? That depends on what you are looking for. Many times the off-brand items are the same thing, and are a much better value but the packaging isn't as pretty. An example would be canned vegetables. Essentially, these are all the same thing, but the more well-known brands with better packaging are more expensive. This can be deceiving and examples like this happen all around us - even outside of grocery stores. 

    It is important to take a look around you when making decisions in your daily lives. Sometimes the outside appearance of the things that we consume each day may have little or nothing to do with the contents, person, or the truth. Advertising has a way of pulling you in so that the entity behind it benefits. Our media that we consume each day can persuade us to think a certain way or follow a certain outlet or shop at a certain store. The same holds true for politicians, actors, etc. 

     In conclusion, we can see that our first impressions have a major impact on how we decide to live. It is important to start thinking for ourselves. Who really decides that the expensive, designer shoes are what you NEED to wear or you are less important? It's time to take everything with a grain of salt and do our own independent research because ultimately, we are in charge of our own lives - not the media, not advertizing companies, and not politicians. Let's do more research and make our own decisions so that we can benefit from them, and not someone else. 




