We live in a harsh time. These times are where deception and lies have overtaken society. People live in their own realities and their own bubbles. There are many reasons for these people to live in their own bubbles. We have seen in modern academia that your own individual reality is more important than the factual truth. This leads to the fact that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.

We elect our leaders in the United States based off of impressions and images. We have one party that will more often than not elect a strong man. The other party will nominate a steward who has a professional image. This leads to people not being represented because they elected someone based off of their impressions and their image. In the 2016 presidental election, we saw Donald Trump overcome Hillary Clinton despite odds of it not happening. Donald Trump projected the image that he was a strong man who can streer the ship in a better direction than his precessor. I do not think this actually happened. We ended up with a generic republican who did not deviate from the party line as much as his voters wanted him to. We ended up with more quantitative easing that not many people wanted. We ended up with him losing the 2020 election to Joseph Biden. If we went off of substance instead of style, more people would have realized that he was not much different than the guy who came before him. The 2016 election proved that people elect presidents based off of images and impressions. 

There is a quote out there that says perception is reality. This means that what we see is more important than what is real. Social media projects this quote to an extreme. I have seen in my lifetime how much people try to act like social media influencers and not be their authentic self. This has lead to a spirialing of mental health in the younger generation. We have never dealt with so many suicides, cases of depression, cases of anexity, and cases of insecurity in the nation's history. We are dealing with a social dilemma because images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.

What I have concluded from my years on Earth is that we ultimately envy and imagine what we want to be. We have a certain part of human nature that can be naaive. When we let impressions and images effect us too much. We can lose graspe on what objective reality is. This is why images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. 
