     From the Allegory of the Cave by Plato in antiquity to The Matrix in 1999, human thought has been concerned with the notion that we are living in a false reality or illusion. Excepting these more extreme cases, modern humans are awash in alternate realities on a daily basis. The concern is that preptuation and refinement of such illusion has an effect on our psychological understanding of reality. The question is not so simple, however, as it must be understood that reality itself is construct of human thought, and the line delineating what is real and fake can be arbitrary.
     First, we must address the notion of reality, which is a more a philosphical question rather than a scientific one. We often refer to a movie's plot as a fiction and a history book's paragraphs as reality, but both can have a profound effect on the conciousness and makeup of everyday people. We must also accept that much of history, even recent history, is a work of fiction shaped to meet the narrative of the writers. Indeed, it is often works of fiction that are able to break through our notion of the accepted reality of history and present a more accurate view of the past. 
     Second, we must take into account the perception of the modern human which is not a perfectly objective lens that can quickly parse a fiction and real world. Day-to-day minute-to-minute is a constant battle in the mind between what is real and what is illusion. Two similarly composed individuals can vastly disagree on the reality of current events, science, religion, and art with access to the same objective information. We may even look to the natural world for some sense of sturdy reality, but here too, we must admit that nature is a human construct. We have shaped the natural world with latin names, categorizations, orders, phylums, laws, and theories. 
    All these assults on our very notion of reality does not put us all back in Plato's cave, nor too, have we arrived at the end of illusion. Small children easliy grasp there difference between stumbling painfully on the playground versus a funny cartoon pratfall. The human eye is well-seasoned to suss out a simulation in computer graphics, makeup, and dialogue. We often do not give ourselves enough credit to trust our gut when it comes to identify when a situation does not align without understanding of how it should be.
    As human beings we have created our world through language, culture, science, and entertainment, and at some point have become obsessed with an artificial line between a reality and a fiction. It is an important delination as reality lends authority, authenticity, and stability which govern so much of our life. Despite the arbitrary nature of reality and fiction, we are still adept at determining the difference between the two no matter the recent advances in technology. 
