Today's society focuses too much on how people and things look, and not enough on how they behave or perform. This focus on appearance makes it so less emphasis is placed on things that really matter, and that can truly benefit society. People can be fooled into thinking a person or product is someone or something to be looked up to or admired, when in reality this obsession with appearance is actually quite harmful. This focus on the visual aspect of people or things can lead people to support people who are not deserving of support and can leads people to buying things that are unnecessary or of poor quality, just because a commercial looks good, or a celebrity endorses it.

A prime example of people focusing too much on what someone looks like, or the overall impression they give, is in politics. Many people go into the voting booths knowing little to nothing about a candidate's positions on topics. They only know what the person looks like, and perhaps some things that their campaign ads said about them (or their opponent). Instead of researching what the candidate believes, or wants to achieve, they think "he looks honest" or "she seems smart," and make their decision based on something superficial. 

Similarly, appearances and impressions are a major factor in court cases. Studies have shown that juries are more likely to find attractive defendants "not guilty" or give them lighter sentences, compared with defendants who are not as attractive. If people can be so affected by someone's appearance when specifically told to judge them impartially, just imagine how much someone's appearance can affect other's judgement of them in everyday life.

Product ads are another prime example of flashy imagery being used to deceive people. Fast food restaurants make commercials where the hamburgers are fresh and juicy, but when you buy one and open the wrapper, there's a stale bun and wilted lettuce. Car commercials show every car as being fast, elegant, or luxurious. They make it seem like your life will be so much better if you buy one. But, when you do, you realize that a new car cannot does not really change anything. Ads for prescription drugs make it seem like if you take this medication, then all of a sudden you'll be swimming, taking a dance class, and playing with your grandchildren in no time. Instead of asking their doctor's opinion, they go to their doctor and ask for the medication by name, now knowing whether or not it's the best option for them. These kinds of ads not only get people to spend money unnecessarily, but can even be bad for their health.

Some might say that people shouldn't be so easily deceived by an ad, or by someone's appearance. People should go out of their way to do research and to investigate what each person or product is really all about. But, that isn't reality. When these kinds of ads and images are constantly being thrown at you, it's hard to not believe what they say. It is hard to reasonably expect someone to be able to look beyond these things that they've been seeing or have been told for their entire life. In summation, people are too affected by their perception of reality, whether it's been created by an advertising company or by their own mind, and this is largely to their own detriment.
