Every one these days are materalistic- from the over commericalization of religious holidays- Santa at Christmas, and a bunny at Easter- to constantly trying to out do your neighbor. But modern society can't be criticized for these ideals. Instead, they are long ingrained in society from the beginning of time. 

According to Darwin's theory of evolution, survival is to the fittest. As humans developed over thousands of years, they developed tools to make themselves more successful. Starting with simple tools like the wheel, which made transport easier, to sharp objects that could be used for weapons (protection) or building (shelter), society's development of tools made life easier. Eventually society developed more complex tools like medicine, housing, food production, and more. All of these tools allowed society to advance, yet then society becomes dependent on these tools to survive. 

This dependency on tools grew as our ancestors advanced. In modern times, people could not live without the infastructure that our ancestors created. However, in developing these tools and infastructure, our ancestors passed down to modern society that these things made our lives better, which they did. However, because of our inate desire to survive, society always pushes for more, for better. This leads to an overproduction, and a reliance on all the stuff around us. More stuff means a better life.

Modern society's reliance and desire for stuff- aka materalism- grew from our ancestors' desire to survive. As survival became easier as society developed tools, society continued to need their materials. In modern times, it is impossible to survive without all the "stuff"- mainly because society doesn't know how. Society was taught by our forefathers to rely on materalistic things, and not taught the basic skills of hunting, gathering, and caring for ourselves, that was lost centuries ago as we outsourced those things to specialized people/occupations. Living in a society meaning relying on the society. 

Materalism is an ingrained part of modern society that has grown over time. Therefor, it can't be criticized for the path that has developed.    
