When we are in school we are taught to study hard, get good grades, and that this is the keys to success. Report cards are either treated as a golden ticket or a death sentence. The education system in United States schools are designed to pit children against eachother and force students to focus on grades for a goal. But what are the results of this? Cheating to get ahead, rise in mental health from stress about grades, and fears of "failure". Students have lost a love for learning and often grow up disappointed when they realize that in the "real world", grades and test scores only get you so far. Perhaps we can take some notes from Finland, a country that has done away with grades. They instead focus on the real growth and need for life long learning of each student. They have seen great results from this system including lower mental health challenges in students and a much higher willingness to go to school. What can this teach us? From this example we can gather that competition is not the only way to achieve success, or not long lasting success atleast. 
We live in a world where competeition is all around us, on our phone on social media, on our televisions during sports games, and these are just to name a few. Time after time there are arguements that intense rivalry or skills can drive people to achieve victories, but when we reference the education example mentioned earlier, is that necessarily true? This is not to say that some kids and even adults strive under pressure, because I'm sure there are. But we must also aknowledge that some of the greatest victories and accomplishments were not achieved by any single person. Take billion dollar corporations like Facebook or the guys at Uber, would they have become as big of a deal alone? Surely not. What about the civil right movements and the journey to freedom for African Americans in America? Sure it may have started with a man and a dream but Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. did not make those large strides himself. Sure he is a large face of the movement, but what about the support he had? His wife? His ministry friends? People that came from all across the country to support him? President Johnson? We are stronger together. The sooner we acknowledge each of our own strengths rather than trying to be the "best" that is when true success and achievement takes place.
In conclusion, cooperation and collabaration are sure to achieve a far greater journey to great lasting success. We live in a world fueled by competition and rivalry, but in that I challenge you to instead take your strengths and collaborate with the strength of those around me. You didn't hear it from me, but that is the recipe to true succes. 
