Do first impressions count? Is it what we see matter more than what a person or product is? Some people will say it will while other think not. I think for the most part it gets the person or product into the door.  Just getting some ones attention is imporant and we make a effort to do it. It happens in nature where do you think we get the term peacocking.  Isn't substates over appeal more imporant?

I know your not supposed to judge a book by it's cover but it is hard not too.  I see a product or see a person for the first time and I make a judgement right away. Now this means I what to find out more about them or not. It's my first impression. I go from there and do my research before I make a judgement. I know some people will never do that and first impression are everything and how they look is all they care about. The don't care if that dress was made in a sweat shop or made with materials that posion our enviorment. They just care how they look.  They might only date a person simply becuase it makes them look good. Our vote for someone becuase they have trustings eyes.

I feel just going on looks is a really short coming. How can you be imform if you don't do your due dilagons. I also some people only vote someone base on what party makes they look They don't care not what it stands for but how there friends veiw them. So there is something to say about looks and attractiness of a product or a person but it should not be the deciding factor in your decsion. Please make a infom decision going forward in your life and don't let a pretty face get in the way of making a right choice.

I feel with instgram and tiktok and social media that a lot of people care about how they are view and how they look. there are apps to take away wriggles and make you look thinner. I see people taking more selfys than enjoying the event. trying to get the right picture. I feel it's making socity more curpot and fake.  I hope we can look beyong looks.

P.S.
I did not leave the page I just was trying to make it full screen and remove a tool bar so I can focus more. I don't think I should be pentalize. You can clearly see I did not used a word processor not did I do any outside research. I wish I had, this was a tough assigment with lacking those tools. 
