Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? I think the questions is are we materialistic? And if so, how did we get that way? Since the first awareness of mankind, there was no version of materialism. Life was streamlined to just the bare necessities; food, water, shelter, and companionship. However, I don't think it took long for the first constructs of materialism to begin creeping in. Suddenly it was, "I don't want just my land; I want your land too." Men wanted many wives and concubines. Items were discovered that sparkled and gleamed, and a desirous nature from within us awakened.

If this is our version of materialism, this inherent complusion to acquire that which we desire, even in times when there wasn't much global inventory; how can we criticize one another for something that comes naturally. We are creatures of desire! However, I feel the criticism begins when we as a people embrace wholeheartedly unhealthy tendencies. And I have to say that, barring all forms of physical violence, materialism may be one of the worst tendencies we nurture and possess.

It is a consistent habit of human beings to leap before we think. To create before we consider. To take action long before we take the time to ponder possible outcomes; especially negative ones. We have almost a childish abandonment as a creative force in the earth. We've seen it in weaponry, forms of energy supply and acquisition, and again in the Industrial Revolution. When we first stepped onto the path of mass-production and mass-manufacturing. When we became so starved for the fun and power of money that we saw no qualms with feeding on the inherently desirous nature of our fellow human beings. When materialism became big business, regardless of the cost to ourselves mentally, emotionally, financially, and especially, environmentally. The mind-boggling advertising and marketing budgets. The ad campaigns that actively send the message that one is a lesser human being if they don't have MORE! The way we abuse our planet in our attempts to plunder it for every valuable resource in the sole pursuit of that which we are most materialistic about...money.

I don't think we can criticize ourselves or others for desiring things; for desiring MANY things. It's inherently a part of who we are. But we can criticize our inability to see the destruction we bring about on ourselves by fueling and embracing our materiality. We can criticize that modern society is simply the current state of a materialistic snowball that started rolling millenia ago. We're as we always are...full-steam ahead with zero patience and will for foresight.

