Cooperation is a fundamental building block of every society's success, whether a given individual is able to recognize this fact or not. Throughout history, there are more than a few examples that can be given.

Ancient civilizations didn't thrive(or even start) by each person opposing the other at every turn; they had to cooperate to get food and water, manage resources, learn trades, and build their cities, and before that, build primitive shelters. This is evident in early civilizations such as Babylon or ancient Egypt. While these societies had their imperfections, they did last longer as a whole than various bands of thugs fighting each other ever could--and there's a reason that such environments don't have such long, rich histories as the most thriving civilizations did.

In current societies, it's every bit as evident. Countries with more income inequality tend to have higher crime rates, partly out of desperation on the parts of those committing the crimes. Education for them is largely inadequate due to low funding. In the Scandinavian countries, there are higher rates of overall happiness for the populations of those nations. People are far more willing to redistribute unused wealth, rather than hoarding it, and the social programs are all the more successful for it.

This may not seem so apparent in America, where we're so often given lesser-of-two-evils options when voting; when Franklin Roosevelt was in power, a social democrat platform was an easy success politically, resulting in him being elected 4 times, and his opponents insisting on term limits due to his success.  This success was mostly stemming from the fact that voters support a candidate when that candidate demonstrably improves the lives of the common people. New Deal policies were by and large in this vein, creating far more satisfaction than in societies where "might-makes-right" and severely deregulated economic systems are in place.

The billionaires running the world now no doubt see success that would be unimaginable to most of us, but the history of the world shows that the masses are lifted up by more mutually beneficial actions and policies. It's important to look objectively at what's happened in the past and apply the empirical evidence to analysis of the current state of the world. Matters are far more complicated than the common but incorrect assumption that those at the top arrive there simply, or even mostly, due to merit.
