Happiness is an emotion that is very fleeting. It comes and goes when it pleases and can be disrupted at any moment due to something as simple as a phone call. However, it is also one of the most sought after emotions and a feeling that has been described as the sole reason for humanitys continued existence. Millions of dollars have been spent and millions of books have been written in order to capture, understand and analyze the true meaning of happiness and what it takes to maintain it but even so, it still can be elusive and hard to contain. Nonetheless, it my own life and from my various daily experiences, true happiness has always remained when I worked to make those I love around me happy.

Personal goals can always change and they are not concrete. There are many goals I wanted to accomplish and when I finally did, I realized that they are not for me or I found something new to strive after. Even with my many accomplishments I never felt fully satisfied because after one goal was complete, another one popped up in its place. In contrast, making people around me comfortable, safe and happy, providing for their needs when I can or doing things that make them happy bring me joy because the people I care about or those in my direct environment or doing well. Happiness is contagious and sadness is too. When those around you suffer, it takes a toll on you no matter how much goals you succesfully accomplish but when they are happy, it makes you happy and provides the energy and motivation needed to keep going.

The problem with goals is that it takes time. Some goals can take minutes and some can take years. If we wait to achieve goals tobe happy, that means we are essentially waiting to be happy for however long we need to reach that goal. Then after the goal is accomplished and happiness is felt, when we make new goals, we start the cycle of waiting again. On the other hand, the happiness I recieve from being of help to my family, friends, neighbors or giving gifts, or even just being there in the ways they need me to, is immediate. There is no way that you can love on another person and not receive some amount of love and joy back. 

In conclusion, I believe that happiness is what you make of it but largely its much more longer-lasting and rewarding to provide happiness to others versus just focusing on your personal goals and self-interests. It feels great to achieve certain desired results out of life but personal goals can change, be disrupted or take a long time. The people we have around us are here, important and provide immediate happiness. It's such an amazing feeling to make another person feel good about themselves or to be of assistance to them in their time of need. Humanity is community-oriented. We thrive together and that's incomparable to the happiness we recieve when we achieve personal goals. The reality is without others and those we love, who is there to celebrate all that we have to offer and accomplish in this life. 
