Modern society should be criticized for its materialistic applications.  There are so many different technologies out there that are used in todays society.  The technological possessions we use are there to help us advance to a higher level of society.  There will always be a place for those items that are "low-tech" such as hand tools like a shovel or hammer.  I do not think there will be anything that will replace those indefinitely.  What I notice about machines is that the type of work that is done can be crude.  While the hand tools used by a human will be more for final touches.  

There have been many materialistic views in the world but I stand with those who are in favor of material.  Without material we would not have become the society we have become today.  The people who think materialism is bad for the enviornment should reduce their effect on the planet themselves.  Maybe sell your car and start riding a bicycle everywhere to greatly reduce carbon footprint.

I do believe modern society needs to be critized for being materialistic.  Criticism is usually seen as a negative but in most cases it is meant for the better.  This is called constructive criticism where we can take certain ideas and use them to make things better.  I do not agree with those who want to take down technology.  They should get rid of all technology/material they own if they hate materialism so much.  I am one to love materialism as without material then we have nothing at all.  I hope that those who disagree with materialism will one day see the light.  They do not understand the meaning the machines bring to us.  My mind is boggled at how someone can reject materialism since everything manmade is literally made from materials. 

My best solution is to execute the non-believers who reject our materialistic society.  Once they are all gone their ideas will be gone and we will be free from the negative criticism.  I would like to see such a movement since I will be on the side with the materialists.  The materialists are the ones with all resources while those who reject materialism will not have any resource whatsoever.  If you were smart you would side with the materialists too.  
