There are a lot of different view points on being materialism in society. Things change and the way people view things changes. I think there is room for people to have things and to enjoy themselves. I do believe people are getting to materialistic though. The things they own don't always make them happier. A lot of times the stuff people buy is just waste for the landfill or causes other environ mental problems. I think modern society could be criticized for being to materialistic.

You see today people viehicles are getting bigger and bigger. consuming energy they don't need. The giant viehciles use more raw materials than necesarry. Polute more even if they are electric because it takes more to power them. You see trends in housing where people are buying bigger and bigger homes. Yet their yards get smaller and smaller. They miss a lot living that way. A nice yard is a luxery and can even help the environment. Does having a 75 inch tv really cause a better veiwing experiance or is it just more waste when the new model that's uprgraded come out? There are many other items like this as well. To me it seems a bit much and doesn't necessaraly improve ones life.

I can see others perspective. The large vehicles make them feel safe on the road. A large tv us fun and it's not that much waste. For the most part people should be able to live in the housing style the choose. These are fair points. There are other good points as well. Life is short so you should enjoy yourself as much as you can. I don't personally think I have a right to tell others what they should buy and how they live. For all I know I am in the wrong here. Not everyone lives that way either. It's something people have to judge for themselves.

To finsh things up I live a certain way and see others living differengly than me. That doesn't make other people bad and me good. For all I know the oppisite is true. Hopefully both sides of the equation have their strong points and things to offer the world. If only one type of person existed the world would be a boring place. I do think people have become more materialistic than they use to be. Maybe they aren't materialistc though. Maybe they are just living a life they way they enjoy it. I think people should look at their own lifes and decides what's best for them and not critize others for the things they own.
