A person achieves a higher level of happiness when they focus on things that make those around them happy but can only achieve true happiness if it involves them as well. As human beings we are driven at a very basic level for self preservation; this is something that you can never get away from. Our genetics are set. Our instincts are set. Any decision we make that goes against this will have a negative effect; sometimes more prominent than others. Bringing joy to others is indescribable and has lasting impacts. We remember and feel good about these acts of kindness for much longer than our own selfish satisfaction. Providing happiness to others while keeping discomfort to ourselves at a bare minimum is the most ideal state to achieve.

Spending time with young kids brings them joy. Taking them to the park or to the zoo will be things they will always remember. It may take you away from a more adult activity but this cost is minimal. Personally you may not want to drive the 45 minutes and shell out the 20 dollars per ticket; instead you could be at home relaxing on the couch watching your favorite sports team but that is short lived. The kids will remember the trip; what they saw and how they felt. They will talk about it for months and you will remember it and talk about it yourself. You will talk about it to your friends and family. The game will start and end. You will move on from a win or loss but it will be minimal in comparison.

Selfish happiness is always short lived because you are the only one to have benefited from it. Your kids won't remember the game (even if they are watching it too); they will remember their dad sitting on the couch ingorning them. How it made them feel. They will remember not getting to go see the giraffe or the elephant. They too will remember this when they grow up and in a sense a person's selfishness becomes the next generations selfishness. It starts to reduce the human race into all being selfish and uncaring individuals. So; in order to keep the entire society moving in the postivie direction; start by working to do little things for those around you. Make them happy so they make others happy. It will all come back around.
