Images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people. Previously advertisements and popular media, like television and cinema, were the major cuplprits contributing to misconceptions. With the rise of social media, the general public is exposed to even more misleading information and unrealistic expectations. Additionally, politicians seeking positions within our government are some of the worst offenders when it comes to misleading narratives.

Film and television have always misrepresented reality. This is through set design, hair and makeup, editing, and perfectly crafted dialogue. The result is a plumped up  depiction of reality with enough "realness" that the audience feels this is something to strive towards. Social media now raises the stakes even more because these aren't just perfect strangers, these are people you know pushing you to have and achieve more. It is not just that the pictures are heavily edited, filtered, and framed to achieve a certain look. Every post is deliberately selected to craft a narrative that this person is living their best life. or at least a better life than you. Failures and even average moments are left out of this highligh reel so that the shortcomings within your life are more apparent.  Politicians also deliberately weave statistics and storylines to endear them to demographics that are the most likely to vote for them. While there is an occasional grain of truth in these statements, typically they are overfluffed and bedazzled to appear much more relevant and terrifying than the actual reality.

While consumers do have an obligation to do due diligence and research these ideas themselves, it is nearly impossible to not get swept up in a false narrative every day. For those wanting to reduce the impact the outside world has on their lives, steps include deleting social media accounts, reducing media exposure or only consuming media from trusted and vetted sources, and reflecting on what they consume to consider veracity and applicability. It is a tricky to process to extricate yourself from the snares of media influence but it is possible. 


