Modern society is definitely a society that cares about materalistic things. Everyone these days always wants to keep up with the Joneses. With the invention of social media, more and more people always want to keep up with the materalistic trends that are occurring. Before social media, we would only get glimpses of materalistic things. However now with social media, you can see more materalistic things all the time and it's definitely everywhere as companies are doing more and more ads of things that you must buy now. 

It seems like with the influence of reality tv shows and social media, a lot more people are out for themselves. In this society, people just want the nicest things because they think that will gain them the most clout. It is all about clout chasing these days. Sure in the past, people wanted to be popular but it seems like a lot people cared about being popular. It probably helped that you weren't able to see what people were doing on a consistent basis. It would take time to see all the trends but now you can see everything going on in a couple of seconds. 

With everything going on in such a more rapid pace, we just want to consume and get things faster and faster. Modern society sees all these people living this fast and materialistic lifestyle and they just want it. Also with the internet and social media making it seem that it's a lot easier to get famous, people just want to get famous quickly. To some people in society, the best way to get famous is to get more things and that is something a lot of people like to. People get things for clout these days as people always like to show off fancy vacations, brand new sportcars, fancy clothes and crazy partying experiences.

These days in modern society, people see materialistic things as a way to get happy and that is what is being thought to these new generations. The best way to get happy these days is to have as many material possessions as possible. Everyone always needs to get bigger and better things because it will keep them happy. The idea that we all need to live these fancy reality tv show lifestyles is just so embedded in modern society. Modern society is definitely a thing that can be called materalistic because society just wants more. 
