We always believe in the importance of "first impression" or "images" of someone and act toward that person based on that image of them. This phenomanon has been taken advantage by companies in their advertisements to make us buy more of their stuff. This short essay is to discuss how images and impressions affect us on oru daily lives.

When we first meet someone, it is very important to give them a good impression of ourselves. We have always been told that for a reason. It is something psychological. The first impression would form 80% of one's image in another's person mind and it has significant effects on how that person would be treated. For instance, a man well dressed would be treated more nicely and politely than a man with dirty clothes on. In reality, there are many cases that people got cheated or tricked because of appearances, either in business or love life matter.

Taking advantage of this psycholocial fact, most companies try to make very good and impressive images of their products, trying to get us to buy more. They also makes us beleive in some notions about appearances, like it's not good to have dark skin, or to be too fat/ too skinny, or we must buy this products so we can look cooler and prettier, in  order to make us buy their products. Some people are aware of this fact, but because the social pressure to be like people around us is too strong, we tend to incline to get those products, too. 

More often than not, people don't really care about us because they are too busy caring about themselves. However, knowing this fact doesn't really stop us from trying to make the best appearance of ourselves for the outside world to see. This is one scary effect of Ads and social media have on us. It is like a tumor to our lives trying to impress people with the things that are not genuinely ours. Advertisements loves to make us insecure about ourselves and that can only be cured if we buy their products. In fact, none of the outside stuff can make us secure and better when we dont genuinely feel contented inside.

It could be concluded that we must see things clearly and stop being obssessed over outside appearances so that we can stop being victims of cooperates and companies. Most of the time, everything asks for our full attention but not many of them truly matter to us. We should stop for a moment and see what our true priorities are, so that we can have a more genuien and meaningful life.
