Happyness, and the pursuit of it, has been the subject of many books, movies, even songs dating back to the Bible itself. But is there really a single approach to happiness? And if there was, wouldn't human beings have found it by now? The answer will likely surprise you. Yes, there is a path to happiness, but instead of reaching for happiness in one's own life it is actually more effective to try and make others happier and bask in the glow of their peripheral happiness instead. 

One of the obstacles to just creating "happiness" in one's own life is the fact that few people have sufficient insight into what ultimately will make them happy--or it changes over time. Sure, we all have goals we think we are working towards, but how many of us have achieved an ultimate goal or dream only to find ourselves feeling a little flat? Conversely, focusing on others allows for a more objective, much more consistent goal. There are few things more satisfying in life than hearing another person laugh or eclaim in delight; it is still more heartwarming to truly do some good on the community level and volunteer in a soup kitchen, shelter, or with at risk youth.

Another solid reason to focus on the happiness of others has to do with the ample opportuniteis that abound. Focusing on oneself allows for only one person and sometimes limited opportunities. What if a day a the beach is what you really want, but you live in Oklahoma? Not much to be done there. But what if you focus instead on feeding the hungry, a number of which can be found (sadly) in every community.

Altruism and good works are the basis of every organized religion on the planet; might this be a clue that humanity should seek fulfillment in helping others rather than focusing on themselves? It's such as common thread that it exists across barriers such as language, ethnicity ,and geography. Only a powerful, self evident truth could find foothold across so many cultures.

While I don't typically place a great deal of stocki in personal anecdotes, there is a place for colorful illustrations in every argument. In my own life I have found great fullfillment in valuing the happiness of my family over my own. I start planning for Christmas over the summer, and spend hours looking over gifts, reading reviews, and making sure that each of my children has special items as well as enduring experiences to create memories. It takes a great deal of work in terms of time and energy to make the holidays come together, but in the end it always feels worth it. I can compare it to times in the past when I didn't have children and/or a spouse to spend Christmas with, and it was always "fun" but it didn't feel "magical". Being able to focus on others and live vicariously through their genuine, innocent experience of happiness brings forth far more joy than any I could create on my own. 

Lastly, one of the best arguments is that focusing on the happiness of others allows a person to engage in comparison to others. While there will always be those who are stronger/smarter/thinnner/richer,  there are an equal number of individuals who are weaker/sicker/fatter/poorer and yet we seem to forget that. Involving yourself with others give a more balanced view of life, of it's ups and downs, and the ways in which it can be so incredibly unfair. For most people, this can be strangely uplifting as they review and show gratitude for the blessings that chance has bestowed upon them. 

In closing, focusing on the happiness of others is truly the path to overall life satisfaction. There are a myriad of reasons, namely the lack of insight in one's own desires, the opportunities from the sheer number of people on earth, the common theme of altruism in religions, and the downward comparison opportunity it offers. Consider the logic involved but also follow your own instincts when it comes to creating happiness in your life, there is no greater reward than a life you can be proud of. 











