"If I just get through today". A short phrase people often use in regular conversation, or to motivate themselves to reach their goals. Students want to make it through one more class, employees want to make it through one more hour, parents want to make it through one more chore. What they don't realize is that "making it through" to reach personal goals, leaves happiness in the distance, something that is just out of reach. It is clear that if people focus on their own personal goals, they can fall into the trap of putting off their happiness rather than enjoying where they are currently. A better way to obtain personal happiness is to work to bring happiness to others.

In the United States, culture encourages people to focus on their own personal advancement. However, there is still a epidemic of unhappiness throughout the U.S.. It is clear, that working towards, and even achieveing personal success, does not guarantee happiness. Often times people work hard for a day, achieve what they would like to achieve and wake up the next day and set an even higher goal, never sitting with thier small successes and always hungry for more. People are always comparing their past performance and always trying to improve: but, even with sustained improvement they never reach happiness.

I have fallen into this trap myself. I have worked hard in school all my life. Studying hard just to do well on the next test, and the next test, and the next test. Every day I woud say to myself "I just need to pass this test". I still have these thoughts sometimes, however I rarely take a step back and realize how far I have come in my education, and how much I have learned and all the things I can now do with the knowledge I have gained. I am so focused on my own personal success that there's no room to celebrate or be happy. 

There is a higher rate of happiness among people who live in more collaborative and giving communities and countries. Countries who favor working together as a community have a stronger connection with one another and can benefit from the happiness of each other. The same is true for groups that value the communal mentality, like religious orders or fraternaties. When people can be together, witness, and be a part of creating another's happiness, they in turn are happier.

I have spend a total of 9 weeks on a farm that focuses on living within thier means, by producing and buying local food, and provide home repair free of cost to those in the community who need it. At this farm, several people live there year round, while many come for weeks or days at a time and return to their "normal" lives. At the farm, everyone is treated as family, no matter how long or short the stay. Community members visit weekly and warm meals are ready daily when returning from a long day of physical labor. Most of the community members live in extreme poverty, the work day is hard, some come with chronic or new health conditions, lost or broken relationships. All of these things seem negative, however, the happiness among those who stay at or visit the farm is much higher than those who are living their "normal" lives. This is beacuse of everyone's commmitment to the happiness of others and the community of being present with people.

In the end, it is obvious that working towards a goal to have personal gain, even when that goal is achieved, people remain unhappy. It is only when people prioritize other peoples happiness, and goals outside of themselves that they can experience true and long lasting happiness. Being present and in community with others, and caring for them provides instant gratification and happiness, and is not something that can be postponed for another day or something that continues to require more effort, work, or skill. Being of service to, and creating happiness for others is a timeless way to guarantee personal happiness.
