       In today's world there exists many methodologies and theorems as to how human cooperation should be done properly. However, these many diverse theories can be reduced to two base first principles: Cutthroat competition or close cooperation. Some, either based through personal conviction or a unified political construct, believe that in order to rise to the top you must engage in social combat with one's fellow man in order to produce the best result. While others believe that coming together and breaking apart any major task, like ants working together in a colony, can take apart and easily overcome any task as a collective. This narrative, however, shall posit that the best way to achieve ultimate success is to interweave the two theorems into one cohesive construct. Putting it simply, having conflict within the same class structure whilst having cooperation with higher elements will allow for the highest success rate of any project undertaken. This can be known as segregated class conflict cooperation(SCC).

        The major benefit of cooperation is low conflict and stress at the cost of individual productivity whilst the major benefit of competition is that it creates an artificial pareto distribution that allows the truly talented to rise and contribute the most. By combining these two, via segregated class conflict cooperaton, an organization will order itself into clear dividing levels or classes. Those within each class will compete with one another so that the clear standouts or MVP's are easy to find and elevate. Those not within a class, however, will not be competing for the same position and thus can easily cooperate to work towards a greater goal. Hence, this idea combines the best of two disparate positions into a singular but far more efficient outcome. Yet, there are some possibly obvious immediate detractions one would be able to come up with upon a mere cursory examination of this idea. Detractions such as the trifling idea that pressure from upwards classes could rig the lower ones or that those from lower classes could fail to produce acceptable high functioning individuals. But these issues are not problems to be solved by SCC but are reliant on external policies to allow SCC to operate to its full capacity. So long as proper due dilligence is done when implementing SCC, there will be very little if any limits.

        In conclusion, while there is a myriad of differing ideas on how to produce success on either an individual or organization level all that must be done is to engage in reduction. Once you reduce them to their core ideas and combine them you are left with the superior, SCC. So long as proper external organization ideas or indivdual self control is enacted the theorem will be able to bring out the full benefits of the originally distinct and separate ideas of competition vs cooperation.
