Time and time again it has shown that cooperation is one of the quickest and most efficient ways to achieve success. In childhood a lot of shows will show the "power of friendship" and even in school, teachers will make students work together in groups sometimes to show how important teamwork can be.

Lots of companies have dedicated teams that work together to come up with ideas that could better the future and they'll also reach out to the public to get viewpoints from all types of people just to be sure that what they're doing is the right thing. While people can work alone and get along quite well, working with others can help you get finished quicker or come up with more valuable ideas. I myself, prefer to work alone since I'm not the greatest at bringing my ideas up to others but the times that I have worked in groups it has helped me greatly. I am trying to push myself to be more of a cooperative person.

While competitive work can also bring out the best in others, I find that it can also lead to rushed results. To me, it's better to find a way to work together instead of against. I know lots of people that claim that they work better under pressure but I just think that it's because their brain is forced to come up with a solution as quickly as possible - which can sometimes lead to great things or cause more problems.

There is a great middle line between what can motivate us and what can make our brains shut down. Time limits for me can stress me out but without a time limit, I find myself putting off that task for as long as possible. Competition might work best for some people since they might also need a motivator of sorts but for most people, we're not the best under stress.

Overall, I think us as humans should come together and try to do things for the greater instead of trying to race against eachother for first place. Cooperation can lead to great things since multiple people are working together to come to a solution and therefor it'll be easier to point out any flaws that a plan could have when multiple people are tossing their ideas around. But, competition can also be good for others even though it should not be used all the time since not a lot of people can work under all that pressure. 
