I can't tell you what will make you happy. As a sufferer of clinical depression, I don't even know what will make ME happy in the long term. The best perspective I can offer on happiness is that it's subjective, fleeting, and frequently outweighed by misery. Nevertheless, the mere pursuit of happiness is considered a fundamental right (at least in the United States); some people find it through goal-setting, some find it through service, and others find it through a combination of the two.

People who find happiness predominantly via goal-setting tend to fall into a certain category. They're often Type A overachievers who do annoying things like wake up early, drink revolting meal replacement smoothies, and post social media statuses about hustle culture. When their well-being is dependent on their ability to meet expectations set by themselves or others, failure to clear these hurdles can result in lowered confidence, anger, or an unhealthy fixation on something that's impossible to achieve. This model of pursuing happiness isn't very sustainable, and I imagine many of these types are at least as miserable as I am.

On the surface, those who use service as a means of finding happiness may come across as better people than the goal-setters. At the very least, they're almost always nicer, though the late, great Stephen Sondheim taught me "nice is different from good." People who do performative good deeds are not happy unless others shower them with praise for said deeds. On the flip side, there are some saintly individuals who are SO dedicated to saving the world that they have nothing left to save themselves. Charity fatigue is a sad phenomenon, and the people who probably deserve happiness the most are in danger of experiencing quite the opposite.

So what's the solution to the problem of happiness? Based on almost 27 years of living experience, and nearly as many years learning about others' lives, your best chance is to balance a self-focused approach with a more philanthropic one. Go for the high-paying job, but set aside some time to volunteer at a soup kitchen. Exercise both for your physical well-being and the sake of your family members who need you. Don't take your loved ones for granted. Finally, take joy in the little things. Even fleeting moments of happiness are better than none.


