Cooperation probably is more likely to foster success than competition.  But I guess it depends on the environment and who's success we're talking about.  Is it a company with employees?  Is it two brothers with each having a family?  Is it a contest?  These things matter.  I think I just changed my own mind.

Competition brings about excitement, fear, jealously, pride, etc.  Cooperation brings up similar feelings, but to a lesser degree.  Feelings of warmth, sympathy, empathy, etc. are coming to mind when I think of this avenue.  Like not wanting to hurt people's feelings would be huge.  Uncertainty regarding the motives of all the players would lead to indecisiveness, which could be a weakening point.

In a competition situation, one's desire to be the best will eliminate all the need to worry about others.  That's a huge advantage.  The ability to have to focus only on achieving the best result would be advantageous over feelings of wanting to make everyone happy.  I think it falls into being a passive or an aggressive personality.  People with an aggressive personality will be more inclined toward competition, while passive personality people will tend to shine in cooperative type settings.

A competition will, for me at least, eliminate the caution I would be hindered by normally.  Competition makes me feel like I'm being timed.  I would throw caution to the wind and just go with my gut.  If you don't produce any results...they can't be measured at all.  In this way I will incorporate ideas or paths that given time to think more about them, I may not have pursued.  I am more likely to think outside of the box, rather than comforming to traditional avenues.

Cooperation, on the other hand, allows for collaboration.  Putting great minds together to focus on one problem can produce a very diverse set of responses.  This type of insight, I would think, would be invaluable in some situations.  The life experiences of a group of individuals undoubtly would be more beneficial than a single person.  So, in some instances, cooperation would lead to a more successful outcome.

For me, I would say the answer is it depends on where, what, who and why the event is occurring and what the desired results are.  Each stance have their own merits, depending on what's going on.  Leaders and followers play a part in this equation, and both have their ideal situations where they'll shine the most.
