People achieve success more by cooperation than by competition. No one person exists in a vacuum, and an individual who simply competes without alliances or friendships is only doing themselves a disservice. That is because a person who only competes and does not cooperate with other people is going to make enemies, and may not always be intelligent or strong enough to realize when someone holds a grudge against them and is going to create problems.
This means that cooperation is a better choice than competition in the vast majority of cases. A group of people with different backgrounds and ideas can help each other build on their strengths, and any one member in a team can help compensate for the others' weaknesses. As such, if a person wishes to succeed they are going to need the support of other people, and they can provide support for those who support them in turn. 
As such, there is much more benefit to be had from cooperation than competition. While some people favor competition for its own sake, it is very rare that someone can compete without help. 
For example, think of a skill that a person might learn and try to succeed at, such as learning to play an instrument. It would be difficult for someone to learn to play guitar and become a successful guitarist unless they learn from other people and have a lot of support. By contrast, we can imagine the owner of a local business who tries to out-compete rival businesses instead of helping them or receiving advice from other owners of similar businesses. That person is going to become unpopular, and may have negative rumors spread about their business. 
Based on this information, it is difficult to imagine why someone would prefer only competition and not cooperation. Cooperation between different individuals is significantly more advantageous in nearly all settings and in nearly all aspects of life. Just as it takes a metaphorical village to raise a child, so does it take a village to support each and every resident of that village through adulthood. 
Even on a large scale, such as relations between countries, we can see the virtues of cooperation. While international agreements like NAFTA (renegotiated under the Trump administration as the USMCA) are controversial because of their effects on businesses, they also reflect trade agreements between different countries and their leaders that can help create strong bonds of trade and prevent military or security conflicts. Think also of the Schengen Agreement in the European Union, a system of cooperation that allows residents of each country to travel freely between borders. This is a result of cooperation between a number of countries with different governments, allowing greater career mobility and trade opportunities across borders. 
These are all examples of how cooperation produces beneficial results in place of competition. While there is some place for competition, even competition should not occur at only an individual level. Any individual person will need to have allies for support when engaging in competition against another person or organization. Think, for example, of protest movements. An individual protester for a specific cause, standing out by themselves, is not going to make much of a statement or have an impact. However, if that protester is surrounded by other protesters with similar picket signs standing outside of a building representing the power they are objecting to, the protesters will be making more of a statement. 
Even in a competitive setting, such as corporate boardroom, one individual aggressively insisting their own demands be met is not going to have much support unless other people choose to vouch for that person's ideas without coercion. As a result even in this type of environment a great deal of cooperation is necessary. 
It is to the advantage of both the individual and society that cooperation is emphasized. Schools can do this by encouraging greater teamwork, for example, group projects, group sports activities, etc. and by teaching students how to channel their competitive traits in an environment in which they and other people are able to work together. This is particularly true when it comes to teaching students about the importance of democracy and democratic decision-making processes.
For example, in a country like the United States, there is a lot of competition between the two major political parties, the Republican party and the Democratic party. These parties themselves consist of large groups of people who agree (and often agree to disagree) on certain issues. Both groups are coalitions, metaphorical "big tents", and both groups include people that themselves have competing ideas. However, within each party, its members are willing to put smaller individual differences aside to cooperate and achieve political success. They are at their weakest when the disagreements create a rift, for example in the 2016 Democratic primaries when such a rift occurred between supporters of the more conventional, moderate candidate Hillary Clinton and the more reform-minded primary opponent Bernie Sanders. Despite Sanders' calls to come together to defeat the opposition, supporters of Bernie Sanders often chose not to align themselves with Hillary Clinton or with the old guard of the Democratic party, which was one of many factors that led to the Democratic party's loss in 2016 and to the eventual election of former reality TV show host Donald J. Trump.
Trump himself provides a negative example, in that he is someone who valued (or values) competition over cooperation. This led to a high turnover rate of officials within the Trump administration. For example, Steve Bannon left Trump's administration relatively early, presumably because the attention he was receiving from the press overshadowed that received by Trump himself. This became the case for numerous other officials who seemed like they were stealing the spotlight from then U.S. President Donald Trump. While Trump's rank-and-file supporters are and were examples of an organized group who saw themselves as cooperating with each other against a common opponent, the internal politics of Trump's administration display a portrait of an individual whose competitive-mindedness allowed no room for cooperation. This was ultimately what made the Trump administration look weak, and what led to the Trump administration's inefficient COVID response and the election of Joseph R. Biden as President of the United States in 2020.
As such, a look at politics - both national and international - provides a great frame of reference for the values of cooperation over competition, and how cooperation is useful to progressing in individual goals, especially when those goals are shared with or between other people. 
While rivalries and enmity might provide a driving force that motivates people to achieve their goals, how are those people going to achieve their goals unless they set aside their differences and find another person or group of people to team up with and cooperate with? That is ultimately going to be how the achievement of individual goals can be resolved. Competition on its own, from a solely individual vantage point, can be dangerous or self-destructive if not tempered by a cooperative spirit. 
To conclude, because of the inter-connectedness of individuals and the world in general, it is more likely that any person or organization will benefit from cooperation. If given a choice between competition on its own and cooperation to achieve goals, cooperation ultimately proves itself to be the preferable choice. There exist numerous real-world examples that help to demonstrate this point. 
