My father told me once "Second place is the first loser". This phrase is one that I have heard many times later throughout my life, and it has often made we wonder if competition is helpful or harmful for people. The most common argument from people I hear is that competition between people leads to new discoveries and encourages us to become better. However I will argue that cooperation between people will lead to more success. By cooperating we are able to combine knowledge and show off our strengths and build bonds and relationships with others.

The first reason that cooperation is better then competition can be simply explained by the fact that "two heads are better than one". Nobody on this world is perfect and we all have strengths and weaknesses. By cooperating with others we are able to rely on others to cover our weaknesses, and show off our strengths. A lawyer who may be specialized in dealing with one subset of the law, will need others to help him understand other parts of the law. By cooperating with others we are able to build the most complete product that is possible.

The second reason that cooperation is better then competition is that it encourages a more healthy work environment. Having competition between people usually means that there is a winner and a loser. Being labeled a loser is not something that anyone wants to be. It can be harmful for the persons reputation, emotional health, and may lead to poor performance in the future if they don't win. By cooperating with others people are able to build bonds and are introduced to new ideas from others. Instead of wasting energy competing, people can spend that energy cooperating. 

In conclusion, I believe that we as a people will achieve more success by cooperating with others. Having different view-points on subjects can help lead to breakthroughs and produce significant accomplishments.  While a little bit of competition is not harmful, if it is left unchecked it can cause a harmful work environment that may encourage people to break the rules. As the world becomes more inter-connected, its important that we can cooperate with others so that we can face global issues. I believe that by cooperating everyone wins, while if there is a competition there is only one winner. Therefore it is clear to me that people are able to achieve more success by cooperating, rather than competing.
