Happiness is the great prusit of humankind. We believe we are entilted to happines that it is something that just comes naturally to us all. Love is very simalar, a massive aspect of life that we, are just "susposed" to understand and how it works. This is of course false, anyone is a long lasting marriage will tell you that love is a verb, it is something you must always work on, it is not given to you. The same with happiness. We are not just granted happiness, we must work for it daily and adjust or mindset so. 

How somone works for happiness is not a one size fits all, due to the fact that we are all different in so many ways an factors, one persons trash is another person tresaure, one person hell feels just cozy to another, so how then can we extract happiness from our time here on earth, realiably? 

A person living on this earth can find happiness, but the key word is find, searching, digesting, listening, understanding learning what makes you happy, and what others around you allow you to do, what also makes them happy, it all fits into the puzzle. So as you can see this is a long jorney to find your true happiness. 

Many find helping others as the source to happiness helping others, in need, or just making the community safer, healthier, in anyway. Volunteer work, has been shown to increase happiness a massive amount. So basically helping others in any form or fashion expecting nothing in return is a sure way to help give you a few points of happiness. This is simple and basic with not much to cover, help others and you will uncover that being selflish helps create yourself. 

Ok so your thinking to your self, all I need to do is help people and I am going to be happy, well not so fast. I mentioned puzzle earlier, lets go back to that again. Many pieces of your life must serve you, and fill your cup of joy, spilling it out to others will evently drain you and leave you very dehyrted and not happy anymore. You might find your self asking "why am I living my life for others". That is exactly the question you should be asking, because helping others is not the only piece you need to place into it correspoding location. 

So what exactly is the next piece? Well it is yourself. You have to love yourself, first and formost. Find ways to love yourself, remeber you are a brain stem inside of a biped walking organism, so how you precieve yourself matters a lot. When you look in the mirror, what do you see? Do you see things missing? Do you see things lacking? Do you lack energy, motivation, to even try to be happy. "I am to tired to be happy" you mumble to yourself with chip crumbs all around you, like your dreams. If so its time to take a trip to the self care department. Now this ia a very special place. This is how you recover, this is where you heal. We are talking health here, I mean diet, exercise, and sleep. What do these things have to do with being happy? If found a spry 90 year old, they would tell you the same. What you eat matters, movement of the body matters.

 You can not just sit on a couch with all over your bodies joints and muscles crying out for movement. Lacking movement sleep and nutrition, and  expecting your body to produce happiness, does not work. You will ache, feel sluggish, and be unable with your apearance. Put the fork down, get out and move, and then you found another piece of the puzzle.

Now lets finish up with Maslow hiearcy of needs, this is important. We start at the bottom, that is what matters the most and it what I have been talking about. Air, water, food, shelter, sleep, clothing, reproduction. Lets get those sorted and we are on our way. 

Lets get safe now, so health number one. Health is wealth. Remeber a sick person only wants one thing! To be well! If you are not sick now, good, but remeber when you have a flu or cold all you want is to be well, so lets stay well. We need security.

As I stated early we need love in some fashion, now it does not mean we have to be married or have children, those things done right provided massive amounts of meaning to your life, but not exactly happines, they are realated but one does not produce the other. So again love yourself first, then love everyone eles. When you are on a plane, you put your oxygen mask on first then help others. You can not help others if you can not help yourself.

Now all of these need to be meet, but the rub is one can find happines without any of these things, becuase happiness is a state of mind. Really in the end all you need to do is be happy, its just a mindset. Remeber to be happy is an action, just like sadness, it is an emotion, other parts of life like self actualization, and love might seem like happiness they are just pieces to the puzzle. 

Dear reader find all of your pieces that make you happy and assemble them into the most amazing life you can.

