 I believe that as a society, we place way too much emphasis on appearances of things and people. Far too often, we are mistaken by the shiny exterior of an item, only to be saddened that it doesn't live up to our expectations in reality. The same goes for people. We tend to write people off who don't portray the image that we feel is important to a particular task or position. 
 I think that from a young age, we are exposed to what society tells us is elite and important. Far too many of us go on to adopt those ideals in our every day life as we grow. For example,  we are taught that Nikes are far superior to a pair of shoes from Walmart. However, in my personal experience, I have found that my Walmart shoes tend to last as long or longer than Nikes at just a fraction of the cost. However, as a child, I was picked on a lot for the lack of designer clothing and shoes. Regardless of what society has tried to teach me is valuable, I know that having a pair of shoes is important regardless of the label on the shoes. As an adult with children, I try to instill that same thought process in my children. 
 I also believe that people are easily judged for their outward appearances. We also tend to judge by others' sex, age, religion, gender, etc. Society places a lot of value on the job that you hold and your place in society. We tend to idolize entertainers, athletes, and politicians. However, as we all learned during the pandemic, those are not the people that we rely on to make the world continue to function. The jobs that were considered essential did not include one of those jobs that we seem to consider high class and important. In fact, it seemed to be the jobs that most people look down on people for having that were considered essential. Examples of those jobs are: Grocery store workers, gas station attendents, nurses, doctors, fast food workers, and some manufacturing jobs. The majority of these jobs are not high paying or considered a "dream job". Why is that we consider athletes and politicians the elite then? Why do we shame those who might not have the education to be anything other than a fast food worker? From a young age, we are taught that you must get good grades, go to college, and make something of yourself. However, at what point do we stress the importance of being a good person, a person of worth? 
 Ultimately, I think that society's views as a whole, are severely skewed. I think that we place far too much importance on being elite and important. I think more emphasis should be placed on what we really bring to society. Everyone has value. Everyone contributes in different ways. One person is not more important in society than another. Without all the different views, jobs, people, and ideas, our world would be a very boring and even more dysfunctional place. 
