     People achieve more success in the world by cooperation than by competition.  Usually, in competition there is one winner.  In cooperation, all win.  The root word of competition is to compete.  To compete against someone is to go against that person and to view that person as your opponent.  The root word of cooperate is operate.  To operate to to fix something, and to cooperate is to fix something together.  There is a long history of the travails of competition and the joys of coperations.
     Competitiveness has led to many of the problems of society.  It has led to many people feeling that they do not measure up.  It has lead to many people resorting to drastic measures to try to win.  In one tragic story, a popular young teen in Texas who was sure to win a cheerleading competion and the mother of another less popular teen had the mother of the teen who was sure to win murdered so that the young girl would be too heartbroken to compete.  That is an extreme case, but everyday people feel extraordinary pressue to win at life and to have the best materials comforts, the best lifestyles, and successes.
     Some may argue that to be the best at something is life's most honorable goal.  Everyday there is competion.  In school there is academic and athletic competion where competitiveness results in the fruit of success for many children.  However, these successes also, oftentimes, lead to cliques, pride, and less attention- even from school authorities- on the children who do not achieve as highly.  They often feel invisible. Many young people struggle with low self-esteem in middle school and high school because of low achievement and recognition from their peers and school personnel.
     The spirit of cooperation would instil in society would the joy of shared achievement.  There is a song by Sly and the Family Stone that states that "everybody is a star".  What is everyone was respected and cherished just for being human.  Many wars are fought on a personal and global level based on competition.  Competing for money, power, repect, even love have ruined the lives of many.  A very popular quote is "all is fair in love and war".  I disagree.  To win at any cost, is to lose ultimately.  Cooperation, not competition, is the key to a more peaceful, loving, and fair society for all.
