Materialism. The word that makes the world go round, but should it?
Everyone loves nice things and likes to spend money on items that make them happy and enjoy life but is it really something we should all be obsessed over? personally i believe that certain things should be cherished if it makes you happy in life then go for it because theres too much in life that draws out your happyness that you need those little things to brighten you up at times. now the question of if we should be materialistic is a little different, because in the end you cant take thoes things with you. And they will be left behind to take up more spacce in the land fills most likely or end up thrown out on the sidewalk to litter the streets and cause harm to the environment and earth that we need to take care of more than ever now a days. So its a hard call to make since theres so many different things we as humans produce and then throw out. We really dont need as much as we produce in life, its the little things that mean the most in the end and theres so much excess in life theres enough to help everyone out so everyone gets to live a life of fullness instead of struggeling to get by week to week and doing the same repetitive things over and over again to buy the same things over and over again.  I believe more than ever there needs to be a big change in how things are done in the world so we better the earth and ourselves so there would be less crime and poverty and less litter around and excess being wasted. our oceans are being filled with so much plastic its killing the sea and its occupants. we have caused alot of collateral in our selfishness in life and the change is starting to be noticed and felt all around the world. So in a way yes mankind should be criticized for being materialistic since its caused alot of harm in the world. I believe its a good and bad thing that needs to be a little different, we need to be better than we ever were  before and make it so people get to live a life of comfort and happyness and the earth doesnt get abused by our happyness. Theres plenty of ways we can change things theres more than enough resources in life to do so, its just up to those in powerful positions to do something or else the world will be headed for catastrophe. Then theres the few people out there completly blinded by materialism that they cant see past there own self image and thats a problem that gets passed down to the youth and they see that behavior and imitate it, we need to change that too and stop glorifying peoples ignorance tword everything. more and more people need to be aware about whats they do so they can be better and actuallu make a change for the better. Not only do us people deserve happyness and comfort but so doesnt every living being on the planet and the planet itself. I believe we can make that possible and change things if enough people care to. So in all materialism is a good and bad thing that needs to be balanced better for the benefit of everyone on the planet. Hopefully we get there in my time because id very much like to see it and enjoy that world.


