     Picture this: it is the holidays and you realize you still need to finish your shopping. You remember last Christmas your younger daughter got a few more gifts than your oldest daughter. You didn't think they would notice. But, you were wrong. Tears flowed, the sounds of tantrums mixed with the soothing voice of Bing Crosby singing christmas carols. You told yourself that this year would be different. Those kids need to learn a lesson! This is crazy! They are way too materialistic.... oh, is that the new Chanel purse over there?
     Modern society is consumed with having the next and best THING. People work 40+ hours a week, just to turn around and spend their earnings on more junk to fill their houses. When will it end? Modern society, as we know it, has become more and more materialistic as the decades have passed. The sad thing is, there doesn't seem to be a change in sight.
     I will not argue that aquiring things often brings happiness to people. I am definetly guilty of coveting the newest piece of shiny technology or the awesome new electric car that just came out. But allowing these desires to consume us outweighs the happiness we gain from these things.
     I want you to think back to a time when you were a child and recieved a gift you had been wanting, badly, for months and months. Now I want you to try and recall how much that item was actually used, played with. The fact is, the happiness we glean from these items is very temporary. After the seratonin boost wears off, we are in search for the next thing. It is a cycle. It's a sad, expensive, Earth-destroying cycle.
     It is my suggestion that people make the choice to use their money in other ways that may provide equal, or greater amounts of happiness. Take a vacation! Experiences live in your memories and you can revisit those anytime you need a dose. Donate to your favorite charity! Nothing is more gratifying then being able to help. Try to save some of that money. It may not feel fun or happy in the moment, but you will feel that rush of glee when your car breaks down and you know you have that cushin of savings to keep you afloat.
     I am not saying that you should go home and throw all of your belogings away or donate everything to Goodwill tomorrow. Just take a moment, before you pull out that plastic, and think before you buy.
