I believe that images and impressions have a lot of effect on people, it just varies to what others believe and how their own life has effected those images/impressions.  

Colors are something that come naturally to humans. We see bright, bold colors and we think that we need to look at it, touch it, or somehow communicate with it.  Darker, low colors make us feel warm or relaxed such as browns or blacks.  With lower or darker colors, more people feel relaxed because they have a tendency to make us sleep better.  The lower frequencies that come from dark colors make it easy for us to settle down.

Colors such as yellow, red and orange, bring a sense of excitement. They make you think of bright days, the rush of excitement from the winter and spring change.  The birth of new things, like animals, grass, trees, and all the living organisms that are brought up by the changing of a season.

I also feel that each individual person will have a different impression of what is good and what is not when it comes to colorful content.  Some have had repressed memories that could eventually come out when they are near a specific color. Others do not have this particular memory so it would change how they see the image.

When entertainers, politicians and other public figures appear in the public eye.  They are judged and scrutinized by what they wear because there is a social norm that is brought into it as well.  So if someone is wearing a bright orange suit, when the social norm is black, there are many impressions made upon that person before they can even speak. But there will always be someone or something to break the social norm and to get a positive impression instead of negative, or a negative impression instead of a positive.

Another thing that leads into effecting people is brightness/darkness. Advertisements with brightly lit ads or the opposite with darker lighting make an impression on people based on what the product is trying to sell. There is no right or wrong in this area, but they will focus on where the socially normal situation would occur.  Some ideas of bright would be someone sitting outside with the sun shining on them and the ad is showcasing an umbrella to keep the sun out of their eyes.  While on the other side, the dark room could be shown to promote a restful sleep.  You wouldn't see the sun out in a room promoting a pillow or a dark patio promoting an umbrella for a sunny day.

Where you live, what you have been through in your life, different times, places, and people will change the way that images or impressions have on your life.  You could be more involved in the content and how it comes in to what you are doing in life or it could be nothing to you at all and have no real impression on you or your life. 

The reality is, there is no true right or wrong way for something to leave an effect in your life. There are just different ways that it will come across to you versus how it comes off to others, even with a social norm.

So I do feel that there is an effect that is left from images and colorful packages because the contents sometimes are not bright (or dark) but a neutral tone for a situation that is focused on a specific environment.
