Materlism is something that has plagued the world since the dawn of time. Monkey's fighting over bananas, kings sitting on mountains of money, or CEOs of the modern area. All prime examples of creatures stomping on each other for objects or wealth. How bad is it to be materialistic? Should we be ashamed for for this animalistic impulse? I don't think we should in the slightest.

Most people today seem to think alutruism is the most honorable a person could be but I personally believe it is just as sinful as selfishness. That is all Materialism is when you break down, an act of selfishness. You should be selfish. If you don't care about yourself you can not care for others. People claim that all that matters is health, family, or whatever other things they believe you can't buy. That is a very flawed thought process though because without wealth you can't take care of your health. Without riches you can not take care of your beloved family. You have to be materialistic at least at a base level to be able to take care of anyone you love. People claim money doesn't buy happiness but how is it possible to be happy knowing you can not take care of the people you cherish more than life itself? The worst to me is people who try to talk down on others for buying fancy cars or oversized houses because "they don't need it." If it makes them happy they should absolutley buy those things. When I am happy I am a nicer person, I want to do more for others, and I want to spread that joy that is flowing through my heart. Surely we have all had those days where nothing is going right, how did you treat people on those days? I have absolutely taken out my frustrations of a bad day on innocent bystanders. I should be better than that but we all make mistakes. I don't think anyone should feel bad for buying objects that make them more pleasant to be around. I also don't believe a person should ever feel bad for their natural instincts. We don't look at animals hording food and shame them. We are no better than them just because we are at the top of the food chain. 

I understand that a lot of people think of the worst people when it comes to materialism but please try to view the world in it's entirity. Some people will get an ego from their salary, some people will talk down to you for never leaving the country, and some people shame others for their misfortune. That is the reality of life. However there are also plenty of non materialistic people who behave terribly on a day to day basis because they can't do things to make themselves happy. They can't buy things to ease their suffering. They can't remove finanical burden from their loved ones so they lash out at their customers that they wait on. Materialism is just a concept, it isn't good nor bad. It is all about how the objects impact the individual consuming them. A terrible person with a lot of shiny toys would probably be worse without them. A good person without much would probably be better with more resources. So rather than blame a concept please look at the indivual next time you those negative emotions bubble up inside you towards the wealthy.
