There is a happy medium to just about everything in life. Cooperation and competition are certainly no different. In any environment, a delicate balance of cooperation and competition will likely lead to the most optimal results. If push comes to shove however, and one must be chosen over the other, then cooperation is certainly more important. A great person once said "if you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together." This is certainly true in just about all things in life.

Cooperation has far fewer downsides than competition does. Competition can lead to animosity between contestants, which in itself can crush and hinder productivity and accomplishment. Cooperation, however, almost always has a positive impact. There is a reason that many successful people say that it is crucial to never have the mindset of being the most intelligent person in the room. That is because if one thinks that they are, they will not be receptive of ideas, which in itself is a crucial form of cooperation.

Looking at the world on a macro, long term scale, cooperation is much more important than competition. Some of the worlds most valuable systems and products are the direct result of cooperation. This does not mean that competition does not have its place, however, especially in the business world. Competition leads to the increased generation of ideas, more creativity, and more innovation. 

In my personal life, I have certainly found the importance of a delicate balance of cooperation and competition. Competition helps fuel the fire that is the human drive, while cooperation opens up a whole new world of ideas and activities. Competition in itself is also fun to most people. It makes things interesting.

In closing, both competition and cooperation are crucial in the world today in each and every facet. As a whole however, people achieve more success by working together and cooperating to achieve a common goal. Cooperation is more important than ever on the world stage these days, with the world as divided as it has been in recent memory. 
