Images and impressions do have a lot of effect on people but it is no fault of the person. We live in a society where looks and appearances have overinflated importance. When we apply for a job, we are expected to dress up for an interview. When we go on a date, we are expected to dress up to impress. In our jobs, we are expected to perform our best but that involves putting on an act. We are so used to trying to be who we are really not.
Therefore, as far as clever advertisements go, companies are finding effective ways to appeal to the crowd and gain their business. Some of them are even going out of their way to do so by creating superficial images of their product and making the product more than what it really is. It creates very high expectations and unrealistic standards. They even do a good job with their sales pitch. Ultimately, what they do is that they take advantage of people. 
To market something to someone, effectively, is all a psychological game. There has to be an understanding of people's needs and their desire to fulfill their needs. Companies capitalize on this because they know they will benefit in the end. There's no real incentive to help. They know that people will genuinely get what they are selling to them if they could sell it right. This kind of behavior influences society to accept that it's okay to lie and to hide yourself. 
Also, images and impression that are positive tends to make people feel good. Everybody wants to feel good and oftentimes, it is a wonderful relief from stress, anxiety and depression. Also, there's people that develop an addiction of feeling good because it shields them from future hurt and pain. So perhaps, people has gotten used to showing their superificial side and sadly, we think it's okay and normal. Being vulnerable and exposing the real parts of yourself is seen as abnormal and "wrong". Moreso, it doesn't feel good, so why bother? Is it fear of change?
Society definitely needs a do-over. But how can we change, as a people, if we don't first look at ourselves in the mirror? How can we expect people to be healed if we don't know what the antidote is? How can we say we love people but we don't even love ourselves? "Everything that glitters ain't gold" is a famous saying that still rings true up to this day. Everyone is so used to showing the false realities of their life, or, the "feel good" moments but when life starts to crush you, how long will we pretend that everything is okay? How long will we pretend to be strong? When a person expresses interest in being your friend, how long will we hold back ourselves? How much more can our heart take the self-denials? How much more can our heart take the lies that we tell ourselves? Yes, images and impressions have too much of an effect on people but it is time for change.
