The first consideration when it comes to happiness is that we should acknowledge the important differences between individuals. One person may describe their focus as being centered on only their own happiness but if you were to observe them in their home life you might find that their personal happiness is largely defined by how their family makes them feel. That would be difficult to pin down as being selfish or selfless, as commonly described. It would be inaccurate to describe such an attitude with either label, whatever the person says about where their happiness in life comes from. Sometimes two different people will give you an identical answer about their approach to happiness but if you were carefully contrast them you would find that they act fundamentally different in practice. 

It seems to me that people who are able to find a worthwhile goal to work towards, in terms of bettering their environment or helping those around them, do so more often out of a genuine concern and interest in remedying problems. They aren't necessarily doing it in order to find happiness which, as you say, could just be a side consequence of actually trying to do something good for someone or something. In the moment of being concerned about a family member's health, generally a person will not be thinking about how it is going to cause them to be happy for having shown such concern. Instead they are genuinely upset or downtrodden because of some suffering or injustice.

If I am to offer my personal opinion about which approach is more likely to lead an individual to be happy, I would offer up a simple piece of advice: don't try to help other people when you can't even help yourself. Giving other people advice and support in order to try to make them feel better, with a motivation to relieve your own worry about things, is not a very strong position to start out in. It is a better idea to work on yourself first and then use the grace and confidence that comes with thriving in your own in order to prop up other people around you. After all, a truly happy person has boundless good vibes to share with the people around them. They don't feel like they have a chip on their shoulder or something dragging them down and so providing support to loved ones and even strangers is just the logical thing to do. If you were going to put a label on my attitude you could probably say that I think people are more likely to be happy by first focusing on themselves.

All of what was just described applies much more to me than it does to the life of anyone else; I can see that a given person might describe their own approach to happiness either way. It just seems to me that both attitudes are basically getting at the same results. I don't think I agree with the idea that people are "only" happy when set on achieving some other goal. If anything this is just a description of the process of flourishing as a human, and there is sort of a chicken-or-egg type of quality to the question. Do people first figure out goals to work towards, then achieve them and feel happy, or do they set goals in the first place because they are already feeling confident and positive?

I am not a directly religious person but there is a great line somewhere in the Christian Bible that says to "remove the log from your own eye before helping your brother remove the splinter from his own," and this is really good advice that can be followed by anyone in daily life. The obstruction to your own ability to move forward is based on something affecting you alone, and it is also a matter of blocked perception. If you can find your own way to flourish it is much easier to feel free to help those you love, rather than doing it out of a sense of desperation or obligation. Also, your own inability to see what is holding you back is indicative of an inability to actually effectively help others. You can always recognize a truly happy person because they don't always feel like something critical is at stake; they can be easygoing and treat people with levity rather than erupting in anger.

When it comes to dedicating yourself to humanity or another lofty goal such as that, I suppose I could see how someone might base their happiness around a focus on universal issues like equity for all or alleviation of suffering. It just seems to me that such goals are more to do with self-actualization rather than simple happiness. Happiness is the fuel that allows you to work with ease on bigger problems. Fulfillment and satisfaction from completing a goal is a whole other thing, in my opinion. The best approach is to be free from obstruction and suffering in your own life, in order to be able to share your levity and good vibes with those around you.
