                        The images and impressions have too much of an effect on people . The proples believe a images and post . The peoples  is affected the images and impressions and advertisement. The advertisement is always that not ture that's a sometimes fack the peoples also fool. 

                           
                      The advertisement is tha prodect sales bussiness the companey don't care the poor peoples the peoples also this advertisement believe that so the peoples is ver fool it . Mostly the peoples tuest the advertisement and images. All around us apperamces are mistakes for reality. Clever advertisesment create favorable impressions but say little or nothing about the product the promote.   The peoples don't  undarstand is tha advertisement is a fack.The epopes tha product color package and tha look it is very beautifuls so tha peoples are whorg understanding. 
 
                                  
                     The nice looks  the product is very fack but peoples are dont understading. The  mweia, how certain entertaint, politicians, and other public figures appear is more important than their abilities. All too otften, when we think we see becomes far more important than  what really is .


                     So the peoples very carefully nd saving money. The product only the peoples are seeing don't see the owner so don't believe the advertiement and image and impresstions.

                        The peoples are fackly understanding the prodect is avoided the law order way thats stoped that so the peoples are don't affer the advertiement and image and impreesions.                                            .


                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  
