Materialisim in society tends to have a love/hate relationship. We must make money in order to have a basic level of living such as having running water, electricity, gas for heating and/or cooling, and food to eat. We also need a certain level of comfort. What is deemed "comfort" is where the materialism aspects tend to show. For some basic levels of comfort include not much more than the basics of living. Having a comfortable bed to sleep on and a book to read will sufice. However, for others they feel the need to have more stuff in order to be comfortable. Criticism of materlisim not neccessary and often detrimental to our society due simply to the fact that materialism is a subjective opinion. 

I could look at someone with more items in their household and call them materialistic, while someone while less than me could say the same about me. Materialism is so sujective that it usually only conveys as jealousy. Materialism and jealousy are both personality traits that are usually deemed as "bad". Both traits are actually a normal function for people. At some point in most peoples lives they themselves will have experienced some form of jealousy or materialism. Whether it's coveting the newest cell phone or some kitchen appliance. 

One could also equate those that are highly materialistic with mental illness and the need to fill some void with stuff but again it is all subjective. When we get into the areas of mental illness it strays into a lane of invading a persons right to privacy. Are they really mentally ill? Perhaps they have undiagnosed, or even diagnosed bi polar and are experiencing a manic episode. Then the flip side, that not everything needs to be equated to a mental illness, even if the person is diagnosed it is not up to another to determine what is going on in their head. While yes, bi polar especially can lead to over buying and a sense of materialisim when in a manic episode, that person can also have their illness under control and just like to buy things. Questioning their mental state could infact have an adverse reaction. 

Some people are happier living in a minimalistic enviroment. They prefer to have little more than the basics in their life. Others are happier having all the best things. One lifestyle is not superior to the other and criticizing each other will lead to separation and with so many devisive issues going on in todays world, how much people buy should not even be on the list. 


