We see it a lot, we might not even be aware of it, from those fancy comermcials to your YouTube feed, everywhere we look we are exposed to an ideal image. The image that company, that person, that product wants us to see. Do we become to affected by what we see and not enough by what is real, I am to answer just that.

All through out our lives, we see things on a daily basis. Let's think about a YouTube feed for an example for this. Many YouTubers have an overarching brand to them, a way they do things, a set feel, look to their workspace. But how much of that is real? Many YouTubers craft a brand but what you see is, at least in part fake. You don't really see what they are like off camera, and in many cases that can be very different from how they are on camera.

Let's focus on the many YouTubers who have had to come clean about their mental health issues while doing YouTube, quietly suppressing their health to the background while keeping up the apperence that all is well. Most people have no idea, and are shocked because, everything seemed fine. Another example would be getting bamboozeled by YouTubers who purposly craft an image to decive us, think to the YouTubers that craft content where they have to say, eat a set amount of food, or are promting a brand they love, only for the viewers to find out later, that the YouTuber spit out the food off camera, or the the brand they were promoting was sponsering them to promote that brand.

It seems as though most of us as a collective society have become so obbseed with the apperence of things, that we are both, depending on the case, unwilling to accept the reality, or are easliy fooled to believe an "image".

Many people will say things like, "that's just how it is", or "are they really hurting anyone?"
A lot of people in the case of YouTube are under the impression, that crafting an image is just good buissness. You create a brand, you cater to the algarythm, isn't that just YouTube?

I would argue that the practice of crafting an image is in part due to us. We demand an image, a cirtain, level of perfection. We created this image culture by not allowing people to be real, because we did not want to accept it. Chaging examples for a moment, thing about food products, how many times food brands have changed the product, to fit our ideal, even if there was no reason to. 

A great example of this comes from Aunt Jemima products. Recently the company who makes it annouced that they would be renaming the products to Pearl Millng Company amid clams of racest stariotypes in the original packaging. But what most don't know (or choose to ignore), is that Aunt Jemima was based of a real person, who actually worked with the company, they rebranded an "image", based off our ideals as a socity and obleterated a real history of a real person because she was no longer "politicly correct", angering the woman's family. 

So do we craft this "apperence culture" of our socity? I would argue we do, and that it can have real conciquences if we don't start researching for ourselves and supporting people to be real.
