All too often what we perceive to be true is only half-true, a straight up lie, or the lies are so woven into the little bit of truth that the truth doesn't matter anymore. Our society is headed in a very dangerous direction, where people's perception is simply a tool to create your own reality in order to not deal with the aspects of reality we don't want to deal with. We as a species often assume that what you see is what you get and maybe for a caveman who needed to be much more cautious and conservative that may be the case, but we have evolved past that. There's no need for us to lose our perception of reality in favor of a lie that is there to make you feel good.

We are all judgemental. It comes naturally. In our evolution, it was something that kept you alive. If something didn't look right you would immediately turn the other way or jump at the opportunity to correct whatever wrongdoing doesn't serve your purpose to survive. For a caveman I'd imagine this comes in the form of racism, being against any foreign caveman tribe, or some other difference being the cause of conflict. It would've been necessary for the earliest humans to be wary of unkown peoples. The judgement is passed immediately before there is even much of a chance to gather more information. In the modern day we have the opportunity to take a step back from what evolution has programmed us to do and continue as we have been to change the direction of our evolution so that we can benefit ourselves and our world beyond what we ever thought possible.

We judge before we have all the information and we let our first perceptions of something dictate the rest of our relationship to that particular thing. Depending on what that is, there may often be circumstances in which your first perceptions are put into question and you reconsider that thing which may go on to be the biggest thing in your life. Holding on to our perceptions of what we don't fully understand is holding back our society in a major way. Take for example recycling. Only 1% of the plastic that gets recycled, actually gets recycled. Most of it is lost in the process they use to recycled used plastic. It is a horribly inefficient process, so why on earth do we do it? Because it makes people feel good. As if they're doing something for the world by seperating their trash. It doesn't even come close to offsetting the damage we are doing to the planet. People will pay more money for a water bottle that says it can be recycled than they will for another, cheaper bottle of water with the exact same chemical composition.

When all that matters is survival, which in the modern day we call money. Companies try to make as much money as possible. Especially publicly traded companies who have a legal obligation to make as much money as possible. Any regard they show for environmentalism, social progress, or any of the other things our society is so desperately in need of, is only shown in an attempt to make more money. Most of the time you see marketing ploys like this they aren't doing anything. It's all a charade. An example of this is Jaden Smith's water company. He put water dispensers in Flint, Michigan, who is still suffering a water crisis. On paper it looks good, like he's actually doing something. But when you look at the requirements to gain acess to the limited amount of water he was supplying people with, you see exactly what is really happening. I slimey and grimey trick to make money and keep the rich rich and the poor poor.

If we took the time to not pass immediate judgement, we would be a lot better off in our society. When we have all the information presented to us honestly, we all generally feel the same way about things. We all can recognize an injustice but awareness isn't always there and when it is, it's often people who don't have the means to change things. Conspiracy theorists get a really bad rep. A lot of it is ridiculous. We can all agree that there most likely isn't a cabbal of satanic lizard aliens that rule the world from the shadows. This lizard in reality is money and the problem with money is that people are putting survival before the truth. The truth has to come first. A lot of conspiracy theories are actually true and there are many out there today that we can all recognize are true if we really pay attention to what is going on in the world. We're told by popular media that these theorists are cookoo and everyone laughs it off, until it turns out true.

There are examples in stories in Hinduism in which people break free from the system and achieve spiritual enlightenment due to their rejection of their first perceptions of something.Inquisitiveness is key to this. Unfortunately, it is not a valued trait in our society. If it was, we would all be much better off. 
