Images and appearances are incredibly influential on people and their perceptions and impressions of reality. There are plenty of examples of this, and entire fields of study have been devoted to this very subject, known as aesthetics. Aesthetics are understandably important because the human eye is quite powerful and something society has a strong dependence over. With the exception of some blind people, everyone is being constantly bombared with visual cues that their brains then imply and infer information from. This (and our intelligence) enables us to do things that other species are simply incapable of, like determining relative concentrations of chemicals dissolved in a solvent. The perception of light is so beneficial that countless other lifeforms also have eyesight, despite ours being more advanced than most. Appearances and our ability to interpret them appropriately, are absolutely essential to our capabilities to manipulate our surroundings, and gain more information through observation. Without the perception of sight even computers are almost impossible to use as they rely on a graphical user interface which visually displays the data for us.

Some people might mention negatives and limitations to relying on vision and appearances to make decisions. To imply that appeances and their impression have too much of an effect on people suggests that it is logical to limit our perception of appearances and interpretation of that sensory information. The limitation of capabilities is known as a handicap. Handicaps are universally considered negative for us by their very nature. The argument that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people completely ignores the fact that people are dependent on those impressions to function fully. And that negative consequences of this process are the result of improper thinking processes rather than the appearances or impressions themselves. That is an attack on the interpretation of appearances and the impressions we form from them, which is a problem with logic, which is separate from the ability to see. Appearances simply exist and impressions are simply formed, it is the formation itself that is the problem. By limiting our formation of impressions or exposure to appearances we never addressed nor fixed the problematic formations. Essentially, appearances and impressions are not the causal factors of these negative outcomes, thinking improperly about them is the causal factor to be remediated or deemed too influential.

When looking at the importance and prevalence of eyesight in lifeforms across the planet, it is obviously advantageous. Such traits would have been removed by evolution, or eyes would have become a vestigal organ incapable of function or purpose (similar to fish who live in very dark waters). Biology itself very quickly answers the "yes" or "no" of the question. More detailed arguements are more about the "how" rather than the "if" appearances and our impressions of them are beneficial to us. On a more emotional note, imagine a world without visual art! No colors! No shapes! Almost everyone has seen a scene from nature or a piece of art that incited enjoyable and interesting emotions. Television also counts as a visual art, consider how much we enjoy television. It's even utilized as an educational tool and benefits many children across the world. It's an interesting question to ask, if "images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?" However, it's not a very difficult question to answer no to.
