Since the Industrial Revolution, material goods have proliferated far beyond what our ancestors could ever imagine. Inventions like the lightbulb, telephone (and its modern evolution to the smartphone), computers, and mass-manufactured food products, clothing, and other household items have contributed greatly to improving the quality of life for the average human around the world since the 19th century. The average middle class person now lives more comfortably and with more access to information, sanitation, and recreation than royalty of a century ago. However, modern society should be criticized for being materialistic because materialism has contributed to environmental destruction, exploitation of people working to produce these material goods, and has had a negative impact on human relationships. 

The environmental impact of our materialistic culture has received a lot of attention in the 21st century because we are facing an environmental catastrophe within our lifetimes. The mass-manufacture of things like fast fashion, technology, and cheap disposable goods (like single-use plastics) exacts a tremendous toll on our environment. Resources like water, minerals, and electricity are used by manufacturing plants to produce goods that people don't really need, in addition to producing pollution and chemical waste from factories. Artificial scarcity, and manufactured need are stirred up by advertising, which creates more demand for more stuff, which exacerbates the environmental toll. Much of what is produced is also of poor quality, is not built to last, or (though planned obsolescence or the illusion of obsolescence created by advertising) is discarded shortly after it is purchased. This creates an immense amount of waste, much of which cannot be recycled and ends up in landfills or in our oceans. 

Materialism also exploits workers. While we have come a long way from the dark days of child labor, long work days, and other abuses of the early Industrial Revolution, workers in many factories receive little protection, especially those in developing nations. Companies have moved manufacturing to countries with few labor laws and protections for workers because it is cheaper. Child labor is often seen in the garment industry. Workers are often not paid a living wage, or expected to work long hours in poor conditions. Some are exposed to toxic chemicals or other hazards. Materialism contributes to human suffering by creating demand for more stuff which exploits more people. Some may claim that manufacturing helps bring devleoping nations out of poverty. However, the demand for more material goods at a cheap price and of a capitalist system that demands constant growth serve as barriers to true equity across the globe. Companies can always find the next developing nation to exploit. 

Materialism also has had a negative impact on human relationships. Human beings now focus on material goods, rather than experiences and relationships that keep us mentally and physically healthy. There is a loneliness epidemic. Material things have usurped the role that relationships formerly had. Many people can be seen on their phones in public spaces, rather than engaging with one another. Even at the dinner table, people are fixated on their phones. This has had a negative impact on people's mental health, and has atomized human society. Some may say that technology brings us closer together, allowing us to communication with more people than ever before, faster and more affordably. While this is true, the promise of this technology has not been borne out. Social media and technology have created more division and antipathy than ever before. 

As you can see, materialism has had a net negative impact on modern society. If we do not see in a shift in our priorities from a materialistic culture tosomething of more substance, we will see further environmental devastation, more exploitation to meet the demand for more stuff, and more breakdown of relationships. Many younger people now prioritize experiential purchases like restaurant meals, vacations, and activities over material ones, and this represents a shift in values in younger generations. I think this is a positive shift, that will contribute to healthier people and more positive impact on people's lives than more material goods. 
