Modern society has no right to criticize materialism, since society is (by definition) materialistic. If people didn't want money to spend on posessions, they wouldn't have jobs. Granted, some things (like food and medical care) are essential to maintain life. But everyone buys "stuff".  

When we need a place to sit, we buy a chair. Maybe it's a $25 chair from a garage sale, or maybe it cost $100 from a used furniture dealer. If you have a significant amount of money available, it might come from an upscale home furnishings retailer and cost several thousand dollars. What it costs isn't what makes it a materialistic acquisition. The amount of money spent depends entirely what the consumer is comfortable spending. It's a material acquisition if it costs $5 or $5,000.

When it's time for quarterly bulk trash pickup in my city, residents have one week to haul trash and junk to the curb so it can be picked up the next week; this happens on a rotating basis and every household has an opportunity to do this four times a year. There are people who drive around picking trash out of piles in front of houses. Since they're taking things and not paying for them does that mean they aren't material possessions? Nope - they certainly are. Maybe it's a purely utilitarian item that they need or want for their own home. Maybe they're going to have a garage or driveway sale and sell what they've collected in exchange for money so they can buy more "stuff". If an item is something that is wanted, or even needed, it is a material possession.

Some will make a point that it is not a material possession if it is needed to live, but that's not true. If you need to something to sit on, it's a possession even if it's a crate you found in a trash pile.  You could argue that if you're living week to week and barely surviving you can't be materialistic. That's not true! Just because it's not worth much money doesn't mean it's not a material possession. The very clothes and shoes we wear are material items whether they come from a trash bin, Goodwill, Target, or Bloomingdales. 

American society and the system of free market/capitalism is even BASED on materialism. It would be very unusual to find someone doing anything from landscape maintenance to making decisions for a huge corporation if they weren't being paid. The more in-demand an item is, the higher the price. The people who buy the product are buying material possessions; the companies that manufacture the products are making money which they can use to buy more products and raw goods and to pay their company managers and employees. 

If people didn't need and want "stuff", businesses from the mom and pop shop on the corner to corporations worth billions of dollars would not be able to sustain their business models. 

I argue that it is not just desire that defines materialism, it is anything a person possesses for any reason. Only they know why they want or need the item in question.  I like to say I'm not a "stuff" person, but as I look around this room I realize that I am, indeed, an owner of "stuff". Some of it is necessary, some of it is needed (chairs, trash cans) and some is purely for enjoyment (my television, my recliner). But, at the end of the day they are material possessions, and the procdess of buying and selling is what allows progress to continue.




