Images and impressions for sure have an effect on people. Tic Tok the social media application for example, shows very good looking in shape people, having a skill of singing or dancing. Young people will watch these videos, and try to become like them. They think having a large following is very important to social status, and what you look on the outside matters more then who you in the inside. This has affected people to then have more mental health issues, because now they don't look that pretty, or have a skill like the good looking person, or have such a large following that they think society as a whole won't accept them for who they are. The show Kardasians is another example where young people think they need to look like them to succeed in life. They get surgeries that could be very harmful to them, to try to look like them. They think all they need to be is pretty to be accepted. 

This has made the new generation very vunerable, because they now are focusing on their looks, their Tic Tok followers, and social media status instead of focusing on just working hard, and accepting who they are as a person. What this new generation doesn't understand, is everyone grows up, and even if they are pretty and popular now, they might not be forever. Looks fade, and trends come and go. I feel scared for the future, because these people don't understand the deterimential affect of these applications like Tic Tok and how they are really ruining our society as a whole. Morals and values are going out the window day by day. 

As a society, I think we should really ban some of these applications like Tic Tok because of how much it is affecting people's image perception. These applications are causing new mental health crisises, and causing an increase of suicides in young people. We should also stop giving celebrities and these Tic Tok stars fame, and give the fame to people who are actually doing something for the World as a whole. Unfortunately, I don't know if we are already too far gone, and it's too late to make these changes. It makes the future feel scary, and feeling very unknown.

I personally do not watch a lot of T.V., or have these social media applications. I use to and use to waste time on them and afterwards, I would have an "empty" feeling inside. Since I have stopped wasting time on these applications, and watching so much T.V. , I am a lot happier, and actually making more money, because I am putting my focus in more helpful topics to overall better my life. The future generation needs to wake up and realize that the media and these images are harmful, and "dumbing" down society as a whole. I guess this is the plan, because a society that's "dumb" is more easier to control then a society that is realistic and smart. 

Tic Tok is owned by a Chinese company. What is scary, these are CCP tatics and these images are harmful because what is happening is we will slowly become a Communist party. I didn't ask to be apart of a society like that, but again with the rate of these images being fed to the new generation in seconds, it really might be too late for our society unless again we ban these applications. Again I think we may be too late for all of that, and suicides would go up even more, because we have a generation that is addicted to seconds of videos of twerking, pretty people, flashy cars, flashy jewerly, and expensive clothing. The older I get the more I realize I am like my parents, when they said "Well back in my day, we walked 4 miles to school, we started working at the age of 14, etc. You don't think you will think like this when you are young, but when you get older you do start to wake up more, and see past the veil of garbage that is being pumped into you on a daily. You realize those "celebrities" those Tic Tok stars are fake, and shouldn't affect you the way they do. They don't care about you, and you should not care about them so much. 
