People should not be more devoted to happiness of others than their personal goals, however people's goals cannot be the only thing they are focused on in their life. The mark of a truly happy person is someone who has their own goals for self fulfilment and maintains a community of griends and family ti support and be supported by. For practicality's sake, however, I will say that people are more likely to be happy when they focus on their own goals for the simple reason that one cannot help others before their own baseline needs are met first. 

Everyone has needs. The saying "help yourself before you help others" exists for a reason. You cannot put the proverbial oxygen mask onto others if you don't secure yours first. As far as happiness goes, this means working on your basic needs and mental health as much as possible before attempting to help others significantly. It may be possible to devote time to the happiness of others while you are struggling yourself,  but it comes at the price of extending the amount of time you're in an unhealthy position and will lead to burnout eventually. Furthermore, people have more needs than basic food, shelter, and physcial well-being. It is important that before devoting time to others, one must also dedicate time to their mental health, whether this means working on trauma or the stress of day to day life. People also have social, and philosophical/spiritual needs. Before being dedicated to trying to make others around oneself happy, it's important to actually connect to people and nurture the needs of both people in the relationship.

The trap of focusing on personal goals is that in the West, but particularly the U.S., we tend to fixate more on completeing tasks and marking milestones based on material things rather than pursuing goals that will further our emotional, social, and spiritual well-being. For example, the cultural milestones of what "makes" an adult in the U.S. traditionally was getting a first job, obtaining an education (college, trade school ,ect.), getting married, having children, buying a house/property, retiring, and so on. However, many of these milestones are rooted in a capitlist way of thinking. Is owning a home something that further's our personal happiness and well being Perhaps, but only because we are not gauraunteed a right to safe housing in the U.S. By securing property, one secures their access to a basic need: shelter. Then, consider Millenials, a generation poorer than the ones before it and not hitting many of these milestones at the age expected of them-- or at all.  What does defines a fulfilled "adult" then?

However, this aforementioned point doesn't mean that we will find more happiness making others happy though. It means that as a society, we should be deconstructing the ideas and structures that prevent us from providing all people with a universal right to housing, food, medical care, and education. If these things were gauraunteed to us, we would have more time to devote to caring for our higher needs and building community with our fellow people.

It is also important to protect one's goals first because not everyone has your best interests or future in mind. There are countless abusive families that abuse survivors spend a significant amount of time trying to make happy in order to survive the environment, however appeasing these people does not mean that any party will gain happiness. Similarly, there are friends, coworkers, and plenty of thers who one can sink time into attempting to make happy with no results due to overdemanding recipients. Some people will refuse to communicate their needs with you, making attempting to please them a near impossible guess and check task.

Attempting to make other happy is a noble task. One that we should all attempt more often as a society, given how individualistic the U.S. is, but ultimately our personal needs and goals must come first. This does not mean to serve one's self solely or arbitrarily to the point of selfishness and callousness, of course. We are all animals who must find a way to survive and desire care. We must simpy be aware of our bodies, minds, and their limits before we devote ourselves to serving others lest we stretch ourselves too thin.



