When it comes to materialism, it is rather tricky to deny that it is an important part of our lives. While we roll our eyes over celebrities like the Kardashians' for showcasing their expensive luxuries and live style and celebrities flying on private jets only to get a few miles across the world, it's hard to deny that we are similar to upper class materalists in our own way. Sometimes, we might want to get our hands on a luxury fashion bag and other times we may want to go to every concert a musician we love hosts in our area. Materialism, while it seems easy to dislike, is actually more complex than we think it is. In actuality, materialism shows itself in many different ways in our lives. This can be with three different categories: fashion, experiences, and consumption.

Fashion is an integral part of our daily life style. After all, we aren't able to step outside barefoot or naked, much like our early ancestors might have in the past. While some people may resort to just wearing a t-shirt and sweatpants and cheap sneakers to go about our days, some people might crave more exquisite things. Every year, we can all see pictures of celebrities wearing top quality fashion, ranging from dresses with diamonds and glitter to tuxedos with a nice deep-red color. This causes the people watching to go 'I want that!' and then desire to look into high fashion to be able to search for what they want. However, materialism doesn't just focus on items one might see at the Gala or an awards show. Every day, it's unavoidable to find an advertisement for famous fashion products such as Chanel, Gucci, and Louis Vuitton. Because of its constant advertisement and seemingly high quality products, it causes people's desires to grow and want to buy the product, even if it may be 500 dollars.

Experiences are what could be the biggest temptation to falling into the tricky trap called materialism. This goes back to the Kardashians' as mentioned earlier, celebrities like those siblings showcase their trips and their mansion. This causes the people watching across the globe to think that experiencing expensive cruises and vacations to Hawaii is the only way to live their lives. Even if it is a pipe dream tricky to achieve, everyone tries to work to obtain it anyways. Even if this may lead to severe debt or overwork, when celebrities' and their experiences are seen; making that attempt to achieve that dream might be unavoidable unless a person doesn't give into pressure.

Lastly, consumption is another part of materialism. Fast food is something that is a big part of many people's lives, and no matter what they cannot stop going even if they know it's only going to cause trouble in both a financial and physical long run. This can work in other cases too, sometimes a 5-star restaurant may tempt someone after watching a cooking show or a restaurant review on Youtube. After seeing this, a person may want to run over there and disregard the high prices. 

Overall, it is hard to criticize society for being materialistic. Plenty of people's materialism is because of what they see and observe around them, whether that be from celebrities both on the internet and off it. The only way to stop materialism entirely would be to somehow stop internet and television access for every human being so they don't have to keep seeing a 'high class' life. Advertisements would have to be stopped as well, so the desire to spend money on luxuries can be avoided.
