Picture this: it's a hot summer day and  you're aching for a way to cool down. Nearby, the soft jingle of an ice cream truck alerts to you the possibility of a cold treat. You catch the truck, buy a treat, and unwrap it, expecting to find the recognizable face of a cartoon character from your childhood. It's on the packaging, after all, shouldn't the product look the same? But instead you find a sad representation of a face. The parts are all there, but it's like looking at a Picasso painting. They're all out of order and weirdly shaped. Your enjoyment of your sweet treat has been diminished, all because we rely so heavily on the images and impressions society gives us. When we are presented with anything that doesn't meet the standard, our hopes are dashed.

Our society has relied on media representation of everything far too heavily for far too long. We get our standards and ideals from magazines, TV shows, movies, billboards, and social media. We're shown people who are photoshopped into perfection, homes that are nothing but sound stages, and lives that seem free from any stress. These are all lies, but we accept them as reality and build them into our belief systems. These images and impressions are destroying us.

A woman shown on TV is likely to be thin, tall, beautiful, and nearly flawless. This is what society shows us is the "average" woman. When women in real life see this, and compare themselves to what media has told them should be the bare minimum, they're thrown into a state of guilt, depression, and overall, desire to be better. The standards that TV shows us for men and women alike are nearly impossible for the average person to achieve. Actors and models have personal trainers, chefs, managers, makeup people, hairstylists, designers, and more to keep them looking their best. The everyday person doesn't have the money or time to keep up with every single aspect of looking perfect, and so on top of feeling like they're not enough, they may feel as though they're prioritizing the wrong things. We're pushing our children to believe that if they want recognition, respect, and admiration, they should look like the people who get those things on TV. Children are becoming more and more unhappy with their bodies at younger and younger ages, and media is the direct reason for that.

In addition to people being shown as perfect, we are also inundated with images from social media and television showing us what our homes and lives should look like. Our domiciles should be clean and elegantly decorated. Our lives should be full of joy, love, adventure, gratefulness, and a strange combination of indulgence and overworking. We're shown pictures and videos of Instagram moms who work out for three hours a day, keep their house immaculate, raise smart, respectful children, work a full-time job and still seem to have time for wine nights, camping, shopping, and date nights with the spouse. We're made to believe that this is not only easily do-able, but expected. We look around our messy, cluttered homes and see our dirty, fighting children and all we can do is feel overwhelmed and guilty that we're not the perfect mothers. The same goes for dads, for single folks, for employees. We're all given an impossible standard to achieve, made to feel guilty when we don't, and behind the scenes, no one is admitting that this whole thing is a lie. 

Many people will argue that we're smart enough to know that images in the media aren't a full picture of what's going on, and we shouldn't set our ideals on those carefully-crafted photos. But knowing and doing are two different things. We can consciously understaned that the "perfect" Instagram mom is probably off-camera stressing about things just as much as we are. We can admit to ourselves that the size 0 actress in our favorite show is not an accurate representation of women. But in our subconscious, we're taking in the information that this is what we should be aspiring to. If people get popular by being thin and pretty or having immaculate homes, we too only need to strive to achieve that and we will have everything we want. 

But the most important target demographic of these images isn't the burned out mom or the dad with the beer gut. The people who are most influenced by these images are our children. Children don't have the capabilities to determine what is reality and what is fantasy and we're showing them fantastical images as though they were real. Our girls are growing up feeling inadequate, our boys are growing up feeling like they're not enough. We're poisoning our children through media. 

Some people also argue that having high aspirations isn't a bad thing. Why should we aim lower? Why shouldn't we keep those images of the six pack ab dad and the quaint but modern cottage in the woods as goals? There's nothing wrong with dreaming big. But dreaming about something  you know is very unlikely to become reality is different than feeling inadequate for not having it. Many of us would love to live in a mansion with sprawling grounds and a crystal clear pool in the back yard. But we know that achieving this is near impossible. That doesn't mean we can't dream. But kicking ourselves for not having that when we're already living in a safe, comfortable two-bedroom home in the suburbs is unhealthy. We can always want more. But we should also recognize and appreciate what we have.

That ice cream treat you bought from the truck was disappointing - maybe even horrifying - to look at. It wasn't pretty, it wasn't what you expected, and because of the images you were shown on the packaging, probably even gave you a jolt of disappointment. But it tasted delicious, cooled you off, and in the end, it was exactly what it needed to be, nothing more. We can hope for better, but we need to start recognizing the danger of expecting perfection. We need to see the images media portrays as what they are - fiction. We are living in the real world and being perfect aesthetically should be the least of our worries. Eat an ugly ice cream and don't worry about it.
