Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?  I certainly believe that images and impressions play a key role in advertising and selling of merchandise.  First and foremost you need SOMETHING to grab the attention of buys, right?  This could be an image of a person, or some sort of graphic design.

Let's talk about images of people on products.  When you look at the cover of any magazine you almost certain to see a picture of a real person on the cover, right?  Is this the real image of that person or is it an image that has been changed, enhanced, highlighted, etc.?  These are the things that have an effect on people.  If you see someone that is changed on the cover, then you may think that is reality.  You may see someone that is a "perfect" figure, or have "perfect" skin, only that is not the case because they have been altered in some way.  

The problem with these images being altered or changed is how they have an effect on how they are viewed by younger people.  As a mom of teenage girls, I am amazed by how seeing an image of someone on a magazine or on a billboard can alter my children's views of themselves.  Young adults (and children) are easily influenced by celebrities and when they present themselves to the public on products or on any sort of media where it can be altered, they are presenting a falsehood to those that admire them.

What if images weren't altered?  What if we saw everyone's imperfections in every publication?  I am not sure that the world is ready for that, to be honest.  If we were to see an image of the top supermodel with a giant pimple on her forehead, would people think differently of her, or would they applaud her "natural" state?   Or if the top bikini model showed off her cellulite, would people think less of her for not being "fit" enough to be on the cover of a magazine?  I think media images are a double-edged sword.  One of those things where you can't please everyone.  Some would complain over altered images.  Others would complain over images that are unaltered.  You can't make everyone happy all of the time.

All this to say that yes, I believe images have too much of an effect on people.  Can that be changed?  Absolutely not.  Why do I say that?  People are influenced by what they CHOOSE to be influenced by.  Some can look at an image and know it's altered and it will have no bearing on whether they buy a product or how they think the image compares to themselves.  Others will see an image of false "perfections" and it will alter how they see themselves or it may influence them to buy a product they didn't want or need.  We are all different and how we respond to things will be always be different.  This is why images and impressions are important.  One way or another they will effect people, good or bad.  It is up to the individual to determine the true influence of the images they see.
