    

    Biologically, people want to be accepted in society. Humans are social creatures. Yet, 2022 is the year of the unspoken language. Nowdayas, people socialize through images and impressions. This has been happening recently because our generation is mainly socializing through technology. Therefore, perception is now reality. There is a demand for colorful and crative images and impressions. It has gotten as far as getting your social media profile checked before securing employment, running for political office or even obtaining your legal status in a country. In some parts of the world such as China and North Korea with more strict regimes than the Western world, having a social network account can lead to the death penalty. 

Therefore, a person's social image is how people are perceived by others. An impression of your image will determine your sucess in society. A positive image will get you accepted. A negative image will reject the member from society. In online dating sites, most men will not disclose their height or imply that they are tall. The 6 feet tall number to indicate height sometimes is requied in order to secure a date. An impression of someones image can't be controlled. There are men who have gone on a shooting rampage just for being rejected in dating sites due to being short. Impressions have too much of an effect on people; even though, it is based on things that you can't change.

     Through technology, people can post pictures of a lyfestyle that might not be real. Humans do this in order to be accepted. Some trends might not even be positive or beneficial for the group or society.  There is too much pressure to please people that one not even knows. Imgaes send families and friends  an I'm ok message. A perfect facebook page of a family will show photoshopped pictures of their family in lavishing vacations or holiday themes. This sends the message to their family and friends that they are ok and stable. Some accounts with picture perfect family pictures end up in the news about murder-suicide ones. 

   Advertisement is following this trend. This is why most of the time, ads use fake products to advertise their products. For example, it is widely known that McDonalds uses plastic and fake food to advertise their products. Once you get to McDonalds and order a sandwich, you then realize that it looks nothing like the ad in the store. Yet, looking at the fake ad makes you want to go to such restaurant. Furthermore, looking at a fake McDonald sanwich in the ad sends your brain a message indicating that you are hungry.
Advertisement can be racist or bias. Unfortunately, people forget that there is a demand for tall, fit white men. It is prejudiced within the members of the white community as well.  
