Happiness comes in many forms but it has been said many times that happiness definitley comes on personals goals.  Although there are some people who's happiness comes from making other people happy.  What degree of happiness comes from etheir of those is subjective at best.  Many times happiness depends on one's self and what makes them happy.  Some people think that helping others is in turn helping themselves, but that could also be a goal of their own which in turn means thats they are more happy with both personal goals and the happiness of others.

Helping humaity brings happiness to those who are people pleasers.  Say for instance someone who recycles or assists in climate change think they are doing something positve for humanity which in turn brings on happiness to themselves.  While other's are more into it for themselves like reaching a personal goal.  Someone who never went to college who decides to change their life and get a degree and begin a career later in life has met a personal goal which in turn brings happiness.  Happiness depends totally on the individual and can go both ways. 

People are more happy when they feel they have met a personal goal, but stated earlier this can really be a all in one.  The reason I say this is because if your goal is for instance climate change, not only are you helping humanity, but you also just met a personal goal for your self.  So this brings happiness all at once in both forms being a personal goal, and the happiness of other's.  Also, upbringing can dictate this is well depending on how one was brought up.  What I mean by this is being raised to be a people pleaser these individualy will usually only find happiness when helping other's. 

In conclusion, for me personally I find happiness with personal goals I have met.  I use to be one that pleased others and found happiness when pleasing others.  This was not only selfish to myself but to everything else I could accomplish.  By setting personal goals it makes the feeling of utter happiness more benficial for not only myself, but also my self-esteem.  But, again some of my goals is not only for me but also beneifts other's.  I would say people are more happy by focusing on their own personl goals.
