False advertising and fake news, how do we decide as individuals what is real and what is fake? For instance, how can I judge what I am seeing on the social media platforms of someone that I follow, whether it is true or false? 

I know that so much much on the TV and on the web is biased and untrue. Do people spread these untruths because they are ignorant or want attention? Are these people aware of the harm they do to others? Do they care? I cannot even begin to guess about what their motives are, all I can do is resist the temptation to feed their needs, so far as this is concerned.  I am not sure how other people deal with this but I am finding that I cannot keep up with all that is out there. I have to decide, for me, what is the most important issue of the day. I have to decide that and then I have to research it for myself, through reputable sources and not on any social media platform.

Someone sent me what I thought was a news clip of Nancy Pelosi, spouting rhetoric and basically not making any sense. I took a closer look and it was a Facebook feed which I promptly deleted. I did go to a reputable source to see where this originated and there was no merit at all to it. I have heard it said that Facebook and Youtube has filters and algorithms that detect false and fake news but honestly, there comes a time when you have to think for yourself. You cannot rely on other people, with their own agendas, to think for you. An algorithm is programmed by a person that only naturally, has their own biases. 

I truly hope, that as a society, we take charge and quit being complacent about our society and our government. Our founding fathers had no web, no tv, no electricity. All they had was their minds and if fortunate, they had books written by people that could offer them truth and wisdom for what they were trying to build in this new land. They gave their lives, not just in battles but in the struggles that were wrought because of these battles; disease and starvation, to name two. Let us not, as a nation, fight amongst ourselves armed with only half-truths and ignorance. Let us educate and arm ourselves with this knowledge so we do not see this country be destroyed, either from corruption of our very own government or from outside forces that we have allowed to 'own' us. We have centuries of wisdom at our fingertips, we have access to so much truth in the world, we need to honor our forefathers and save this country from downfall by arming ourselves with those truths and united we WILL stand but divided we will fall. 

Take the time, even if only fifteen minutes a day to discover the truth abouth the issues important in your life and in your world. Sometimes, I do not like what I find, but I do not hold onto something I find out that I was wrong about. There are times that I cannot believe I held onto a piece of information, for so long and had actually defended it, only to later find out, I was wrong. It is liberating to discover the truth. The more truth that I find, the more truth that I want to find. The more truth that I discover, the more ammunition that I have in my arsenal. Not all fights can be fought with guns and bullets.


