      The first thing you do when you open your eyes in the morning is see. Whatever is around you is immediately brought to your attention, and for many people, the field of their vision is their entire reality. With an "out of sight, out of mind" mentality, many people go about their daily lives only caring about whatever is directly in front of them. More recently, within the past 25 or so years, the invention of the computer and later the cell phone have put much more information into the faces of people that would not otherwise be accessible. I believe the effect this has on the minds of individuals is heavily understated, and that images and impressions have a very strong and often times negative effect on many people. 
     Instagram is a social media picture-sharing app used by millions, if not billions, of people globally. Many people use it to share photos of themselves with friends and family, but some poeple have taken it a step further, monetizing their lifestyle and becoming what is known as an "influencer". They create a brand out of their lifestyle, and then sell it by having others idolize them and live vicariously through their content. What most people don't realize, however, is that a majority of these "influencers" are living fake lifes, renting fancy cars and houses, and putting on a show for social media. These people dont understand that the images they put out are photoshopped, adding muscle or losing fat, whitening teeth, or even correcting hairlines. They go on to try and live like these people, setting unrealistic expectations for themselves, and then getting upset, hurt, or otherwise emotionally damaged from the failure. While this is only one example, there are numerous examples across all social media platforms and even more widely throughout the internet. While it is a great tool to bring people together, social media and the internt can often do more harm than good. 
     Many people live with only the perception of what is right in front of them. When you introduce computers and cell phones to this, many people become overly invested in the internet. Social media "influencers" have taken advantage of this by selling unrealistic lifestyles to millions of people. These images of fancy lifestyles have too much of a negative effect on too many people to be understated. 
     
