What is happiness? How does one uptain happiness? How much does happiness cost for a individual?

Today I would like to discuss HAPPINESS. Yes, the word seems so simple, and yet, depending on who you ask, you may find that everyone has a different interpretation to what it means to them.

Happiness is as subjective as the morals and traditions people live by.
Happiness may be reaching a an important goal you. Happiness may simply be finding that special someone and raising a family with them. Happiness may be wealth, power, or even status. Happiness can even be as simple as being content with one self.
Happiness is being content or a feeling of satifaction. 

I want to talk about was brings the most happiness to us. Is it in the goals we set for ourselves or is it making others happy?
It is no shame in being motivated by achieving something for yourself. Self driven goals are important because they build character, confindence. You may feel that the more you invest into achieving said goal, the more happy you be. 

You may be someone who finds happiness in helping others. Meaning your happiness is tied to how giving you are. You are more focused on others.

There are pros and cons to each of these.

Happiness that comes from purpusing goals for yourself can also lead to dissapointment. You may find that your goal may not have been what you were expecting. It might disappoint you. 

Happiness that comes from others. You may find that you are far to reliant on others happiness that you neglect your self. 
Others may manipulate you. You can expose yourself to being used by others and you don't have much self-esteem because you're always depending on others.

However, again this is all subjective.
One could argue that "happy people live happy lives and people who are not so happy will have a harder time finding happiness."
This is true. If you are a person that finds joy in whatever you do in life, then you are much more likely to have a happier life.
A person that has an unfortunately life, whether it be due to finacial woes, lack of companionship, physical health, and mental health issues can have a harder time experiencing happiness.

Again this depends on the person.
It also depends on the extent to how much something can make a person happy. 


