             Materialism 

As children some of us were taught,  or might have been familiar with   hearing the old saying of  "Dont judge a book by its cover,"  or " Keeping up with the Joneses." Most of us in older age have decided to either adopt Materialism as a way of life, or taught our selves to continue to disdain  the acceptance of it.  Based on factors that might have happend to us growing older, we  sometimes, hold a view we had  formed in our heads after a direct experience we encountered with Materialsim. It s my objective to help some understand that Materialism, to me is only a showing of ones inner feelings for themselves. No matter if one is thinking of basing their self worth on how much they have or  should  they choose to have more ,in order to have others think better of them; Materialsim can be overcome with a positive self image.

Over the years, modern society has put more of a price on self gain over others to an somewhat infinite degree.  Popularity of some music videos show a multitude of celebrity thoughts in images of what it is like in the spotlight . There is great value in supposedly having all of the  latest versions  of an item or being in highly patronized places for mere show. All the while, the celebrity  or company selling an item, is not explaining how  MUCH  that they themselves receive a profit  when people implent this information  thats been shared  and shown with  the public. It seems kind of backwards that a person who seems to want the most  in life would give away a profit to someone else just for the sake seeing themselves with it;  all the while shelling out money to the person or company for encouraging an individual to buy something. 

People have gone broke trying to keep up with buying what they have seen other people buy or have. Some people have actually gotten a really good job when it was noted that a person owned or had experience with something of value that didnt last.
 It is best to keep a well rounded out look on life, no matter how much your income is.  Purchasing based on need  versus want, is always a win-win mindset
  In these days of income loss, Materialsim can be approached in a view of what you have is as good as the newer version, should you take care of it. Unless an item serves a purpose that must be updated in order to work, one should not purchase it, just to be seen.  
 
