Materialism is a contentious subject. We, as a society, are pushed to shop shop shop until we drop. Ads are in everything, from our games to our websites to our busses and walls. Even nature trails are sponsored by ads. This is a terrify prospect for a number of reasons, from environmentism to the future of our society. Many are beginning to realize this, bringing forth movements of minimalism, zero waste, and anti-consumerism. While these movements may seem preachy, they  have many valid points. Mainly, that materialism is ruining our society and our environment, turning our world into a dystopia. 

First and foremost, materialism is the leader in environmental distruction. The factories built without regulations to stop pollution is just the begining of the issue. With the packaging, the shipping, and then the fact that most of it ends up in a landfill, it's an ecological damning waste. Companies are the biggest leader in environmental damage. Secondly, we have the human factor. Most of these items are being made by wage slaves at minimum. Materialism has made sweatshops an acceptable form of slavery just so we may have the newest of fast fashion.  Human suffering now seems to be a small price to pay for the newest trends every month. Thirdly, we have made our economy based on constant and quick consumerism. If people stop buying for any reason, such as wages not keeping up with inflation and inflation it self or viruses that shut down countries, the whole system starts to collapse. We are experiencing this now. Companies bombard us with ads, but refuse to pay us enough wages to buy them and now we are heading into a recession. Fourthly, it gives us false hope. We think that the items give us meaning, that they bring us happiness, but do they really? Do they give us more than say, a dinner with friends or taking the grandchildren to the zoo or doing an escape room with your mom? Creating memories with the unique individuals in our lives gives us a much firmer and longer lasting happiness than any plastic piece of tat. 

The economy seems to be the only real argument for materialism. If we would like to strengthen the current economy, we must continue to consume without thinking and without needing. Some will even defend sweatshops and say that those people won't have a job withour us buying the tat.There is also something to be said about the comfort that can be found with that moment of dopamine shopping. Finding that right shirt or newest toy can be exciting. It can even be seen as an event or truimph in life. In limits, it definitely could be. As in all things, knowing the limit is the important part. 

These small arguments aside, very few people really believe that more is better and very few people believe that all consumerism is bad. Very few people will say, don't buy that one thing that you know you will enjoy and use for years. Most are saying, don't buy those 3 shirts made in a sweatshop that you won't use and will collect dust in the closet with the other 3 shirts you bought last week. Materialism has consumed our society and made us feel we can quench our souls, our pain, our rage, with the latest and greatest item capitalism has given us. This materialism will be the end of the Earth and us. 
