Competition is a very natural thing. Not only is competation a natural human thing, but it is very much an important part of life in general! Plants, animals and everything in between are competitive in one form or another for survivial. It is instinctive. However, sometimes competition can get the best of us, causing us to lose sight of the main goal. Humans seem to let power get the best of their ego and they sometimes become ruthless in order to "win". Competition can cause jealousy, envy and drive people to act out of character at times. It can also be the push that some people need. There will always be people that need competition as a form of motivation, or as an incentive for providing their time and effort, but that is not the only option for success.

Competition is important in our lives to an extent, but cooperation is even more important. Working together to achieve a common goal is very important if you want to be succesful. Everyone can learn from each other and lend a hand when needed, without it just becoming a competition. While it is very possible for one to acheive their own personal goals in a strictly competetive way, goals can be achieved faster, with more effeciency when we come together to create a plan to solve a problem or meet our goals.

I think that both cooperation and competition to an extent are necesary for success.  When things get too competitive, it can cause people to become irrational and ruthless just to meet a goal. Working with each other through cooperation and understanding builds character, trust and confidence, therefore making the whole situation easier and less stressful to get through. Feeling supported by your peers while working together and helping each other to reach a common goal is very important for everyone's morale. Being encouraged and supported is very helpul for everyone's mental state. The better you feel mentally, the more you can think clearly and freely. The easier it is for you to have the confidence needed to succeed in this world.

We as humans all need each other and we all matter. I think it is time we are able to be less competitive against each other.  As a team, lets work towards a common goal, rather than trying to out do each other. That takes cooperation, understanding, empathy and patience. We are worth it, and together we can acheive anything! With cooperation and compassion, the possibilities are endless!


