If you were to ask a thousand different people what they believe is the meaning of life, those responses might span a wide range of ideas, but one answer, maybe the most simple answer of all, would undoubtedly come up again and again: to be happy. The desire for happiness is quite fundamental to human nature; it seems such an obvious goal that we hardly even question it. But this simple desire quickly yields way to a more complicated question: what will make me happy? Will I be happier by focusing on myself or on others?

I believe that, although the answer may not be the same for every individual, people in general are more likely to be happy when they focus on the happiness of others more than on their own personal goals. This is a concept that might even appear paradoxical on first glance, but I've seen too many examples to deny it. Throughout my life I've found that the most generous and caring people tended to be the happiest. That's not to say that they didn't have personal goals, but their primary focus was helping those around them, often putting others' needs ahead of their own. I think this is because there's a deep fulfillment that comes from living in this way. And it makes sense; man is a social creature after all. The happiness that comes from the love and admiration of others can't be manufacted or created in any other way.

Consider, on the other hand, the stereotypical ambitious workaholic spending the bulk of their life trying to work their way up the corporate ladder. They may try to argue that this is their path to happiness, but I believe they are usually fooling themselves. They're so relentlessly focused on the next personal goal, a pursuit that never really ends, so how can they ever truly feel satisfied? As the saying goes, nobody on their deathbed regrets that they didn't work more. But how many of those people, later in life, say they wish they'd spent more time with friends and family, or wish they'd been a better mother or father to their children? Those whose focuses are on the happiness of others don't have those regrets.

To conclude, while there is no one path to that elusive goal we call happiness, it is evident to me that most people would ultimately report being happier themselves if they made the happiness of others their priority. People need love from people in order for their lives to matter and in order to reach the sort of fulfillment that far transcends the material gain and ladder-climbing that self-focused people tend to get caught up in to their own detriment.
