In the United states, image is everything in order to market and sell a product. Manufacturers make products look as visually pleasing as possible, and make it seem like the user will have the perfect life and be loved by everyone in order to make them feel like they need to purchase the product.

Today companies advertise products in a way that make the consumer feel like they will be popular, look more beautiful/handsome, and be more successful in order to make them feel like they need to have the product. One great example of this can be seen in clothing. Clothing manufacturers always make commercials with beautiful people laughing, hanging out with friends, and having a great time. As humans, we want to feel wanted, and confident in or bodies, so these attributes really strike home for us. The subtext around these commercials sort of tell us that if we buy this product, we will be happy, sexy, and well liked by our peers, friends, and other people who may not even know us.

Another great example of this is in cars. Luxury brands like Mercedes, Audi, and BMW design marketing campaigns around making potential buyers feel like their cars give them sepcial treatment that only the wealthy and uper class get. The ads tell consumers that they will look like they are successful to all those around them if they drive a Mercedes or another one of these luxury car brands. 

From these two different examples we can safely say that images and impressions are super effective when it comes to advertising, and that they have a huge effect on selling products. Some would say that it is too effective, others would say that people sometimes just want to be told that what they are buying is a good choice. Another thing to consider is that in a free market economy like the United States, many would argue that companies have a right to use psychology to appeal to people's wants and desires in order to advertise and sell products.

Overall people are very impressionable. This is evident by all the products out there people would never buy if they had never seen a commercial or advertisement for it. We all have an exmaple of a product we've bought because we saw an ad for it that made it look "cool" or made us feel like we would be cool if we owned it. We are all victims of ads that appeal to our basic needs and desires.
