Our society most certainly should be criticized for being too materialistic.  Materialism at the level exhibited in this country is a bad thing. Worse, our nation's pursuit of wealth is the underlying cause of much of the misery (poverty, depression, isolation) experienced by our citizens today. There are those who believe that materialism as exhibited in the United States is natural, but these people are dead wrong.

In the United States, we believe in the idea of "The American Dream." This dream now includes ownership of a homownership, car ownership, private schools for your kids, and annual vacations to exotic places.  The dream also includes opulence at a level that moves beyond providing for the basic necessities of life (and then some). Now, even the lowest among us aspire to a life of private jets, spending tens of thousands of dollars on dresses and shoes, and millions more on home noone has time to visit in a year. In short, we are aspiring to lives exempliefied by people like the Kardashians and the Trumps. But I ask you, where in this pursuit of "The American Dream" is the compassion for those who do not have the basics? Where is the valuing of the moments spent quietyly with those we love? Where is the valuing of the things that makes life worth living, but come for free? Thye truth is, there is none. No compassion for the poor. No valuing of quiet moments. No valuing of the things that come for free. In fact, all of these things are sacrificed in pursuit of the dollars needed to buy the stuff.

There are those who would say that "The American Dream" and the idea's underlying materialism is the very foundation of what America was intended to be. I say, no. When the founding fathers first spoke of the American Dream, they were speaking of freedom and justice for the masses. They were speaking of having a voice in choosing the lawmakers and the laws under which we lived. In pursuit of the material to uswe have thrown away everything that matters to us: family (we an't spend time with our kids because we must work). We have allowed our economic system to grow even more unfair because we hope that, one day, we will be the ones reaping the benefits of this unfair system. We allow the rights of voters to be limited because they mightvote for policies that undermine corporations and their ability to create wealth. In pursuit of the material, we have thrown away EVERYTHING that we say we value up to and including our founding principles.

There is nothing wrong with materialism. Humans need material goods in order to satisfy our needs (food, shelter, clothing, Internet, etc.). The way we have become materialistic in the U.S. does not fall within this range of necessary. It is beyond the idea of comfortable, even.  Our society now pursues the material to the exclusion of everything else. We pursue new cars instead of time with our husbands. We pursue 
