      What is cooperation? Cooperation  is defined as working together towards a common goal. Competition on the other hand is defined as  working against each other to win or be the best. It is true that both can be motivators resulting in success but one can be better than the other. If more people are working towards the same goal, success can be achieved quicker, have better quality and encourage positive relationships between people resulting in a more cohesive work or play environment. 
      When people work together, they can get things done faster and thus produce more work. They are able to brainstorm and come up with more efficient strategies to achieve success. They have input and insight from different people which could help each other see things from different persepectives. It would make it possible for every person to have a role rather than one person trying to do all of the work, as in competition.  Not only that but the quality of work would also improve because more than one set of eyes would be looking at and evaluating it. The fact that work can be divided means one person isn't struggling to complete the work in a timely manner, leaving quality to possibley suffer. In the case of competition, poorer quality is also a possiblity. Lastly, cooperation helps connect people and promotes a positive environment. It enables people to  learn from each other, to trust each other and to support each other. Work and success tend to flourish when people are happy and there is less conflict. People have often left jobs, organizations, teams, etc. because of conflict or lack of cohesiveness whereas others have stayed despite disliking the job, organization, team etc. because of the people and the positive environment.

      Someone who believes people achieve more success by competition might say that there is the possibility for more conflict with cooperation due to differing opinions or viewpoints. Of  course that is a possiblity but part of cooperation is learning to work through conflicts and take everyone's viewpoint into consideration which results in cohesiveness and ultimately achievement. Competition lacks that component entirely and becomes about being better than someone else and may result in pride, aggression, and poor quality. Another argument someone in favor of competition might make is the possibility of people not participating equally or to their full extent as they would with competition. Even if there were a couple people who weren't giving it their all, they would still be learning and contributing something and perhaps they could even be confronted and resolve the issue. In a cohesive group that's easier to do and the person or persons might be more receptive. 
     People can achieve success through both competition and cooperation. Both are very important in different ways. However, cooperation seems to be more beneficial in achieving success overall. It is faster, it is of higher quality, and it helps people develop positive relationships with others.
