Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? That is the question many people have when it comes to being materialistic. 

I believe that modern society has become a bit too materialistic. I feel this way because I think too many people in this world are more concerned with what they have rather then what they should actually be thankful for. I believe that material things are just that- material- they can be replaced. There are so many things in this world that can't be replaced that are not material things. I think that this society should not be so materialistic and actually be thankful for things that money can't buy- such as good health and healthy family members. I also believe our society has become so materialistic and it shows because our country is in SO much debt. People spend thousands and thousands of dollars every year that they can't afford to spend just to buy things they think they need.  I think that this society has lots of problems with spending and being materialistic only increases that problem and makes it worse then it already is.  It appears to be a vicious cycle that is never ending. 

I also believe that people care too much about what brand others are wearing instead of focusing on what you have. Some people who live in luxury and have nice things frown upon people who are less then them and have less material belongings. I think modern society should definitley be critized for being materialistic in my opinion. Do you believe that people in this society are all about money and luxury? I think there is so many things in this society that entice people to buy things sometimes it's hard for people to resist the urge to spend money. 

The society we live in today is always trying to get us to buy things because we live in a society that only operates if people buy things. I believe that more people should stop and think about what they already do have and be grateful and then maybe the cycle of constantly feeling the need to buy more things would stop. I always have believed the quote that "money can't buy happiness". It is not a bad thing to have nice things, but I believe it becomes bad when you are spending more then you are earning because you want to look a certain way or obtain things that are too expensive for your budget. If people followed a strict budget then this society wouldn't have so much credit card debt and people would be much better off. 

It is sad but true that there will always be poeple in our society that will always chase the bigger dream of having nice things and outspending their budget. That is one thing that will never change. I believe things were created to be bought; but only when you can comfortably afford them without going over budget. The bottom line is that things are just things. They can be replaced. People cannot. Health can not be bought. Love cannot be bought.  You can't put a price on somebody's life like you can put on a material  item. In my opinion you only need SO many things to live a good happy and healthy life. Only you can decide if you  believe our society should be criticized but in my opinon, yes, it should be! Be thankful for what you already do have! 


