Happiness is something that elusive yet at the same time it is an expected result in the thoughts of most individuals. The truth is that nobody can gift you happiness, and no individual person is owed happiness. Happiness is a state where material needs are met in combination to psychological and spiritual needs. If any of these three needs are out of sync, true hapiness is just a dream. The best path to finding happiness is to focus on one's own journey and path. One has to build themselves up before they help others, lest the collections of lives turns into crabs attempting to fight each other over escaping the bucket. 

The first thing to focus on is the consideration of material security. Money does buy happiness, it just doesn't buy total happiness. It fulfills one third of the journey there. It is near impossible to truly be happy if one's material needs are at risk. Most people will have anxiety, dread, and uncomfortable fear if their lives are out of order and there is a lack of stability. There are exceptions to every rule, but this essay is concerned with the average journey towards fulfilling happiness. To achieve material security, one must have a good job, career, or have been lucky. Unless they were lucky, the individual must ensure their success here. Nobody will hand someone a high paying career for simple desire. 

The second task is psychological security. This is access to calm surroundings, distance from toxic relationships, support for any mental anguishes, and a fine work-life balance. One can be wealthy, but hate their lives as they are working 70 hours a week. They might also be wealthy, but have a terrible family life, or no friends, or no real fun hobbies. Securing psychological security is not as important as material security, as at least one can be safe from the dangers of the world with the former, but to be truly happy, build up this one to find a fulfilling life outside of shelter. To not focus on that, is to be in the same head space as a bear finding a cave for the winter hibernation, and unlike the bear, we have self-awareness of what more is possible for any of us here in the year 2022. Psychological security is what stops our worlds from turning into a psychic tornado ripping us apart.  

The last security is spiritual. This step doesn't neccisarily have to be religious. This step is about finding meaning to why we do things beyond material and psychological reasons. This goes beyond finding "simple" happiness in a task, and secures a deeper generation cause for why we are doing something. A bridge builder can be happy because their job secures themself material wealth, and they have a healthy social and family life, but this step is when one thinks about the long term consequences of their actions. This is beyond the individual. The bridge builder can be fulfilled and feeling meaning beyond the single person because of what he is doing for future generations. he is creating something that will serve thousands or even millions of lives. With that in mind, the bridge builder can find higher level of happiness. Now imagine what a great thinker, or diplomat, or president can feel during this step? Someone simply hoarding wealth for themself and a couple close friends and family cannot experience this higher level.

These are the steps to happiness. Securing one or two can lead to cruder forms of happiness. Happiness that is ultimately fleeting or that is only design to satisfy for a small while. To find true happiness, the kind where you are smiling on your death bed, one must secure all three forms of happiness. One can't achieve this by fixating on one goal or hoping for hand outs from others. This is tri-pronged task that could take years or decades, but it is the truth behind the work an individual must accomplish to truly be happy. Individuals are able to help others that are on a lower step than them, but they can't force them to succeed, they can just make it easier for them and make them luckier. This is where a mentor, or teacher, priest, friend, or therapist comes in to the equation. When we show what is possible we become role models for others, and only then can we correctly inspire them and guide them to happiness as well. 
