As a minimalist, I have found that desiring less means having more. More time, more money, more freedom from maintenance and care and organization of an overabundance of things. People should only have things that they need to use to produce meals or build shelters, transporation, and things like sewer systems, or water systems. 

People have gone from using things and loving people and experiences to using people and experiences to acquire the things they love. This cheapens any time spent with each other and dilutes the important events in life. People really need to learn to value what's inside of themselves and each other instead of valuing material things that add nothing to the substance of a person's mind or heart. 

I've heard over and over I just love my this or I can't live without my that. But, the truth is, they can live without most things but they don't realize they cannot live without each other. Society should instill in young people a desire to have experiences with each other to enrich the character of the individuals involved and learn that things are merely tools to help them accomplish this depth of character. Young people also need to be taught that things make life a little easier and tasks go much quicker and that gives them access to the most valuable 'thing' they are endowed with -- TIME. No one ever knows how much time they've been given in life and it's sad to watch so many people waste that time trying to acquire things. The only things one truly possesses is what is in their hearts and what is in their minds and they should not let the acquisition of things monopolize that precious asset. 

(I went blank here so doing some stream of consciousness typing til I can, hopefully remember where I was going with this.)

I guess the bottom line is that we would have a much richer and well-rounded existence and be much happier if we had our priorities  straight concerning where material things fit into the whole schematic. We would have time to be human BEings instead of the frazzled human DOings we've become. We have so much mental illness, depression, narcissism etc in our culture because society values that new car more than that new skill or thought process their family member or friend has acquired. I find most people too shallow and empty to be around. It's very irritating when people get mad at you because you don't find that shiny new car or annoying new gadget even half as interesting as they do. 

(I can't think of anything else to say on this topic and I think 30 minutes is way too long for someone who types as fast as me. If I can't sit back for more than 2 minutes to try and eke out another vein to follow on this topic then it's not a real writing exercise. It's more like farming people's minds because maybe the one running this HIT needs the ideas for a thesis or something. Even the thought of someone raping my mind for their benefit makes me think they want that THING more than they want a real essay on this topic. Maybe that THING they want is the graduation ceremony. The "A" in the class that requires them to need other people's ideas .. that red warning THING really ticked me off and I'm done writing now. If you wanna give me a quarter cuz i stopped early then so be it. Done! SUPER done!)  That's right .. i have been idle for more than 2 minutes .. if this isn't enough words for you to analyze then give me a freaking quarter. I bet that red thing was about to pop up again. Can you imagine if i typed non stop the whole time? you'd have so much frivolous stuff to read that had no substance .. just like the people i described up there in the essay somewhere. yes i have gone 2 minutes without typing .. i have a very scared dog trying to climb into my lap because people value blowing up paper and gun powder more than they value the way the animals and people like me feel about it .. talk about too materialistic .. sheesh .. pathetic
