Should modern society be criticized for being consumed with materialism?

We live in a throwaway society.  Fast fashion, fast food, planned obselence, single use and disposable.  Nothing is built to last.  Instead of repairing goods such as shoes, clothes, and appliances, we just throw them away and purchase shiny new ones.   The landfills fill up with plastics and other materials that will linger for decades to come.  Some of this waste ends up in the oceans and negatively impacts sea life.  Let's not forget all of the carbon emmisions that come from the production of many of these material things.  If people consumed less, then that would be so much better for the environment.  

Another criticism for materialism is that it causes people to fixate on the keeping up with the Joneses mentality.  People become obsessed with buying the next new thing in order to show it off on social media.  New clothes, foods, experiences, electronic gadgets.  This presents a spiritual dilema.  How can one be grateful and satisfied with what they have when they are too busy trying to obtain more?  Also, what about people who buy things that they cannot afford.  They put themselves in debt and cause bigger problems for themselves in the future.  They neglect needs in order to obtain wants.  Getting into debt to obtain material things is the lesser of evils, though.  Some people do immoral things in order to obtain stuff, such as stealing or scamming.   

But, in spite of the criticizms for materialism in today's society, there is another point of view to examine.   

In our capitalist society, consuming material goods and experiences is par for the course.  Buying goods and services that are both essential and non-essential is needed to keep the economy going.  Manufacturing material goods keeps people employed so that they are able to feed, clothe, and house themselves and their families.   If it wasn't for materialism, jobs could be lost and there would be more poverty and possibly more crime.  

 Another upside to materialism, is that life should be enjoyed.  What is wrong with having nice things?   If you work hard for your money, you should be able to spend it however you want and to enjoy the fruits of your labor.

What is wrong with having the latest and the greatest?  What is wrong with trying to keep up with our fast moving society?  Having old technology and old clothes, driving a beat up car, might cause you to miss out on not only enjoyment, but also on opportunities.  First impressions are everything!  

But our society shouldn't judge based on appearances of wealth.  And we should learn to get the most out of our belongings before replacing them.  Holding off on buying new things would help one to appreciate what we have and to take care of it.  We might take better care of our current Iphone if we know that we won't be getting a new one anytime soon.  Also, there are other ways to emjoy life that don't require material consumption.  Friends, family, spirituality, nature, etc are all free ways of enjoying life.

I started this essay thinking about the question, "should modern society be criticized for being materialistic?"  I think the answer is yes.  Even thought there is nothing wrong with consuming and buying, we should learn to be more appreciative of what we have.  We should make better use of our things before rushing out to buy more.  Our environment, and our spirit will be better off in the long run. 

 




