Happiness is overall a very subjective emotion, where one person can feel it immensely and the other feels like they have to work for it. Everyone is in the pursuit of happiness but some rarely gain it. I often wonder what the secret is to be blissfully content with everything in life. I think the secret is giving back to humanity in any form. Humans are very selfish creatures they look for their benefit in most situations. You often see the people giving charties and donations always beeming with a big small, and though the act is done with good intent it does still stroke their ego. When we do a favor for someone and they say thank you, we feel needed which is what every human truly desires. Being needed leads to being important or doing something that reminds you that your making an impact, leading a change. Happiness is something leads to contentment only when your needs and wants are being met
 However, as much as helping humanity leads to happiness, it will at one point tire you out. Constantly completely other people's goals will lead to neglect of your own, decreasing your value in your own eyes. So the true secret is giving yourself time and others, this is what will make you happy. Having connection with the people around you but also having a connection with your innerself. Being aware of what you want to do in this life and to head on pursue it, will create this joy in you that cannot be changed.
Humans are at their happiest when they are valued. The moment someone values who you are, what you want, what you think, or just you in your glory than you will feel happy with that person. Happiness is dimished when you don't feel seen or your not doing anything "productive". As a wise person said you need something to look forward to, something to do, and something to be creative in order to be truly content with life. But then again it is all subjective, some people are happy with the bare minimum, and others require a lavish life. however every human feels happy when the attention is on them, so engaging in activites that involve praise usually makes people happy.  Every person has a different secret to happiness, no one can truly know. 
