Success is often seen as a good thing. It is proper to want to achieve success in life, whether it be in the realms of work, education, dating, etc. The ways in which one can achieve success are varied. On the one hand, you have those who prefer to achieve success through competition. These are the people who have no problems in putting themselves before others for their own benefit. On the other hand, you have those who prefer to achieve success through cooperation. These are the people who enjoy working as a team, and have no qualms in achieving success as a group, rather than individually. While choosing to achieve success via competition or cooperation is individualistic, there is debate as to whether one form is preferable to the other. When we gather the pros and cons of each method, it becomes clear that success via cooperation is preferable to success via competition.

When one achieves success via cooperation, there is a sense of belonging for that individual. This person is working as a team, and in so doing, they benefit from the knowledge and backgrounds of his teammates in achieving their goal. They do not have to work alone, nor stress themselves out about achieving their aims by themselves. Instead, they can lean on their teammates, having them pick up where the individual may lack, and likewise picking up his or her teammates in whatever they may be lacking themselves. This togetherness is highly likely to achieve positive results, and ensures success more reliably than working individually against the group. 

Additionally, success via cooperation ensures that there are no hard feelings against any particular individual. Because the individual is working as a team, it is understood that the result of their cooperation is due to a collective outcome, rather than an individual one. If success arises, which it is likely to given a broad range of workers each giving their individual strengths to the team effort, then that success is enjoyed collectively. There is psychological benefit and pleasure to achieving success as a team, where the individual can heighten their sense of accomplishment by sharing it collectively with their team. Even if success were not attained, the team could bring each other up and cheer each other up, and so make the sense of loss more bearable. 

There are those who may argue that achieving success via cooperation is not as meaningful in showcasing an individual's unique strengths, and that it would be better to achieve success via competition to showcase who the alpha of the pack really is. However, success via cooperation does not make that success any less successful than success via competition. In fact, success via cooperation shows that the individual has unique advantages over the individual competing individually, namely being able to be part of a team, having good interpersonal relationship skills, efficient listening skills, being able to handle direction, and so on. This makes the cooperative individual a more attractive candidate than a competitive individual who would prefer to win at any cost, be it selfish or destructive. 

Achieving success is widely recognized as something good to be attained. In life, there arises whether it would be best to achieve this success individually and competatively, or cooperatively and as part of a team. Human beings are social creatures, and it is psychologically benefical to them to feel part of a group. Additionally, working individually can bring out many negative traits in the individual, namely stubbornness and hard-headedness. In the end, given the choice to work cooperatively or competitively, it is better to achieve success through means of cooperation than competition.  

