Materialism is a philosophical term that means to connect anything and everything about the human psuche to material possessions. Materialism pertains to give a cause to the way the human mind works and rationalizes free will. It states that people do something only because of materialistic possessions and that's all that matters.

The modern society while being in denial of being materialistic, will agree that it is evident in most cases. Especially with the rise of social media it gives people an outlet to express themselves to extents that was never seen before. Which brings people this sense of comfort because showcasing your possessions online on social media gives you an opportunity to feel better about yourself derived fromt he validation of people online. It gives people a chance to get the attention of someone that they've been meaning to approach. Because materialistic values will pull people towards a person depending on how wealthy it makes them seem. It is human nature to seek wealth. Materialism is also especially popular among the wealthy because these values are somewhat of a social status. The only way to showcase ones wealth is through developing materialistic values. Nobody will suspect you have money if you aren't keen to showing it off. One of the biggest brightsides of materialism is it's impact on the economy. If materialism didn't exist, people would not feel the urge to buy things and expand their materialistic possessions. Which ultimately is a huge plus point for the merchants and overall it plays a positive role for the economy. 

While materialism sounds like a bliss, it is but a bliss in disguise. Studies have shown to prove materialistic people are less likely to be happy in life than people who do not value materialistic possessions as much. Which is why Materialism is generally thought of as a negative value to have despite some of its positive sides. But that is mostly because the cons of it outweigh the pros. Materialistic people are usually thought to be stuck up and greedy people who lack morality cause they would discard morality to get whatever materialistic possession they are pursuing. That's why materialistic people are strongly frowned upon by the modern society. 

While materialism is a negative trait that is vastly disagreed upon by most of society, it is undeniably an important part of the modern society. We know that according to studies materialistic people tend to be less happy but it can be said without doubt that without materialism a lot of people would lose their sense of direction in life. Although, it is vastly thought of as a negative trait, it is still a huge personality trait for a lot of people. There are people in the modern society that cope with emotional experiences and lackings with materialistic possessions or overconsuming material possessions. Which is the biggest reason to why I believe the modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. The only other more important argument being, if materialism wasn't a thing, the world economy would collapse. 

The aforementioned consequences considered, I believe it is rather stupid to criticize modern society for being materialistic. We as a 21st century modern society fail to realize that no matter how much we disregard materialism, it's still holding the modern society together in a lot of ways and it's helping maintain the social hierarchy. 
