     They say money can't buy happiness...but I tend to disagree.  This is not something I like to say out loud to friends and family, as it sounds shallow and materialistic, but it's the truth.  Aren't you less stressed when you have money?  Aren't you happier when you can buy what you want?  Aren't you more satisfied when the stuff you buy is nice stuff?  
     
     I have had money and I have been broke at times.  The times I was broke and had to buy my clothes at the clearance rack in Kmart I was not nearly as satisfied and happy as when I could go into a nice brand outlet store and buy what I want.  There is a certain amount of pride you feel when you are able to make a purchase that you have worked hard to make.  If your material items come by way of working hard, saving your money, and not going into debt...then more power to you.  Be proud of working hard and getting to purchase the items you would like and not having to scrape buy and look on from the sidelines. 

     Others may feel differently.  They may look at those that have accomplished a lot and have a lot as being materialistic.  It is a waste to have name brand items and a lot of materialistic things.  But if those people worked hard for it and it makes them happy than it is nobody elses business.  Everyone has a right to do what they want with their money.  Now if people are spending and aquiring to "keep up with the Jones's" or they are putting their family into massive debt then that is when being materialistic is not a good thing and should be frowned upon.  

     One more point I would like to make is if you do have material items...stay humble...and don't flaunt your treasured items.  Be proud but realize their are others that perhaps cannot afford the same luxuries and not being humble can make others feel badly or less than.  I am a big fan of the housewives shows on the Bravo network.  It is literally their job to show their status in society and put their material items on display.  These women will be a walking billboard for a particular designer, wear more diamonds than they can fit on their bodies, drive the fastest and latest cars and live in the biggest houses.  We celebrate those housewives that are humble about their belongings and celebrate with those that quietly and gracefully move amongs their high priced items.  Being materialistic can give one a stigma of being snobby and stuck up but if you have nice stuff and stay humble then it is possible to break that stereotype. 

     When raising kids and if you are able to afford nice things then it can be a fine line making them appreciate nice things and realizing it takes hard work to get those things.  You want to teach your children hard work and appreication so that when they get older they work hard for anything they get and they are proud of it.      

     We live in a blessed country when we have access to a lot of stuff and a way to make a lot of money.  Our country is often seen as being materialistic and wasteful.  We can turn that image around by otaining nice items that we have access too, staying humble, and if we have money for material items then we have money to donate to charities to help those less fortunate.  Counterbalancing being materialist with being chariatble can be a very postive thing in our society.  

      In conclusion, if you can afford it and it makes you happy then spend away....you can't take it with you!  If you are more conservative with you money...good for you.  We all have one shot on this earth...lets do it however suits us best and not judge others for what they decide to do with their one shot at life.  
