Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic?  People spend a significant amount of time earning money and acquiring possessions in their lifetimes.  But have we taken it too far?

I feel that too much emphasis is placed on our material possessions.  There is a difference between having nice things that enhance your life experiences and enjoyment, and simply acquiring more, bigger and better "stuff" in order to outpace the Joneses.  From my observations I feel that most people I've met are too preoccupied with the accumulation of status items that go beyond practical use.

Do you really need a $200k sports car?  Was the Beamer not sporty and fast enough for you?  Maybe that person holds a financial stake in the insurance company that they're subsidizing, but chances are the owner is trying to outpace an acquaintance or is going through a midlife crisis.
A middle aged couple living in a 8000 Sq. Ft. home is another good example.  There's nothing wrong with having a few guest rooms for when family or friends might come to visit, but do two people that sleep in the same room really need a home with 9 bedrooms?   I don't know about you, but I can only use one bathroom at a time!  While the cleaning staff surely appreciates it, there's not really a 'need' for that level of oppulence.  And we should be secure in others judging us for our character traits and personal accomplishments, not just the things we've acquired.

Some will argue that they've worked hard for their money and how they spend it is their choice, and that's the beauty of a capitalist American lifestyle; it is most definitely their right to do as they please.  But others that have opted for a more reasonable (yet still luxurious) home might choose to rather spend the extra funds traveling abroad, creating memories that will last a lifetime as they traverse Europe, for instance.  
There is also the benefit of easier upkeep with more modest possessions.  There's less stress and more time to do what you enjoy.

This writer feels that we've definetely placed too much emphasis on materialism.  
It's time to get back to the basics.

