In all humans is the desire to succeed and be accepted for one's accomplishments. In competitive socieities, such as in the United States, the pressure can be baked in from the school-age years up to one's professional life. The perennial question remains: what works better - competition or cooperation? Both have their place in our society, but is one really better than the other and will one yield more success?

I propose that, although both have their place among successful individuals, cooperation yields more tangible and quantifiable results because it forces the individual to build on their own good ideas with those of others. Even when an individual is more self-focused and more comfortable working alone, they can often surpass their prior accomplishments by blending their ideas with the great thoughts and suggestions of others, whether they are part of the same office, team, organization or neighborhood. The "hive" mind, as many think of it, has power in numbers. 

The reasons to favor cooperation over competition are many, but let's take a look at just a few. First, cooperation forces individuals to think outside of their comfort zone and accept and consider the ideas of others. Second, cooperation guides the individual to be more open-minded compared to an approach that rewards closed-minded thinking. Third, cooperation is the sum total of more than one individual because it brings together others in the organizational unit; the sum is greater than the individual parts. Lastly, with cooperation, we have more members of the organization involved in its success, creating greater loyalty and ties to the mission, goal, success and continued innovation going forward. 

Some very successful individuals, most notably the brightest entrepreneurs of our time (Jeff Bezos, Marc Zuckerberg, Elon Musk, and others), are well known for working alone, at least as far as their way of thinking. While they oversee companies with thousands of employees, they have reached their success by being a trailblazer or leader in their field and insistent on commanding respect for their way of thinking, without regard to the suggestions of others. In a similar way, individuals who stand out as superstars in school, business, sports teams or in the private sector, are often seen as highly competitive and go-getters, doing the bulk of the job on their own. In reality, however, I'd argue that their success is borne out by the quiet cooperation of their classmates, teammates, colleagues and collaborators that don't often get - or need - the spotlight or the public adulation. Competition, to be certain, has a place in getting results and achieving more, but cooperation is king in this respect. Without the input of others, there would be no Jeff Bezos, Marc Zuckerberg or Elon Musk. Rather than "geniuses" sitting alone at the top of a hill, I see these people as leaders of a successful "hive" of other highly intelligent and collaborative individuals. While the public might only know of the titan at the apex, it is the daily cooperative work of the collective that yields the larger results. 

In conclusion, we can see clearly that a highly functioning enterprise requires elements of both competition and cooperation. Both are required. However, it is the cooperation that often leads to entirely new ways of thinking and exploring that keep pushing the boundaries farther and beyond what mere competition can achieve. Therefore, people, if they are open-minded enough, will always achieve more success by cooperating, collaborating, and partnering with others, compared to a go-it-alone and purely competitive environment. 




