In this day and age, we are constantly being told to buy more and more. There's always a new tool we need, a new toy, a new item of makeup. There's even a popular TikTok trend colloquialy know as "TikTok made my buy it" which shows off handy little gadgets you didn't even know you needed. The question then becomes, is all of this materialism really necessary? I believe that modern society is worse off for our level of materialism. It has harmed our connection to community, our connection to nature, and our connection to our roots. 

In her book Root and Ritual, Becca Piastrelli seeks to address the issues of materialism in our daily lives. She attests that we as a society have become so connected, through our phones and apps, but it is a false sense of connection. While striving to show ourselves in the best light in our online space, we have given up our ability to connect to others face-to-face. Very few of us have a strong support network outside of our own homes. We don't share our abundence with our neighbors. We no longer seek to offer solace in times of need. Even if an attempt is made at these actions, it is halfhearted and uncomfortable. Modern society has lost all ability to connect in the course of striving for possession. 

Our modern obssession with the material has also harmed our connection to the natural world. Not only has our limitless production affected the environment, but our possessions have trapped us inside, away from the work and energy of nature. When you have access to the world at your fingertips, what need is there to grow it yourself, learn a new skill, or find a communtity with similar interests? We feel this lack of nature deeply in our bones. It is not natural for humans to live so disconnected. As a result we are more lonely and more stressed than ever before. 

We have also lost much of the connection to our ancestors. When everything is availible nothing is important anymore. The apron your great-great-grandmother prided herself on making and passing down is now just one more thing to be ordered off of Amazon without a second thought. The idea of mentorship and ancestral storytelling is fading away. No one is learning from the older generation when they can just download the newest book on their phone. No one is keeping the old ways when the new ways are so easy to buy. Many of us feel this loss as a sense of no longer belong, wishing we still had a way to connect. 

In the end, the way materialism has changed our world will not be easily undone. But we can all make little changes to help us reconnect. Grow a garden from seeds saved from your store bought food. If you grow too much, use the chance to visit your neighbors and share your abundance. Take time to talk with your elders and really listen to what they have to say. Find something you're truly interested in and find a like-minded community. Start a book club and meet face-to-face to openly share and converse. Don't get lost in the shuffle of possession and acquiring.



