Materialisim is an inevitable part of modern society. While it is true that people are becoming more and more materialistic, I think it is important to recoginize the context of modern society and the availability of various products now vs historically. I believe that while materialism is generally viewed in a negative light, I think that is also is a natural progression of a society that has become more open and advanced in many ways. However, I do not belive that this phenomenon is unique to modern society.

The age of social media has allowed us to easily show off new or valuable items with ease. Many people are guilty of being materialistic just for social media clout. The more we consume and show off on social media, the more likely marketing ads and alogrithms are going to continue to promote branded products that align with your interests. It is easy to blame individuals for their materialistic nature, but should we put some of the blame on the agressive marketing of material items? In my own experience, it can be difficult to determine if a person on social media actually bought and owns a products for thier own satisfaction vs a promotional or brand deal. We should remember the internet is now generally avaliable worldwide, and with that comes greater item shipping ablility. This has not always been the case, so it can be argued that with the growth of the internet and social media, the perception of people being materialistic for having more and more "stuff" will become more common. 

When we look back in history, we can more clearly see a gap between the rich and poor. We would generally regard the rich as being more materialistic, because they had easier access to resources such as money, central trading locations, and the education to allow themselves to make such trades. I think that if people in previous eras had the same kind of access to products that we do now, they would be equally as materialistic. Most people want to be comfortable enough to have more "stuff" than they really may need, and I don't think that modern people are alone in that desire. It was undeniably more difficult in the past for items to be made, purchased, and be made avaliable quickly and globally, especially considering the major gaps in wealth between persons. 

In conclusion, I don't think that modern society should be critized for being materialistic. While I do think there are examples of people who certainly go overboard in terms of items or wealth, I think the average person still can enjoy new products without being labeled as materialistic. Can we really blame modern society for the spread of products and increased demand on a global scale? I think our ancestors would have been delighted to aquire and produce more and more stuff and or wealth, especially as historical barriers such as race, social status, economic status, etc are slowly being overcome or addressed. It is a human trait that transends time, though modern society has made it more visible through the advent and spread of social media. As society progresses, we will continue to see the promotion of material items and wealth, but the fact remains that we should still be humble to a degree and to attempt to achieve a level of comfort for all people around the world, not just the elite and wealthy.
