Images and impressions and how they effect people and there decision makeing is definitly over powering when deciding whats the best decision to made about a specific item are etc. When u enter a store to purchase let's say a box of Bandaids for your child and they want colorful cartoon characters. You look at all the boxes of bandaids with characters on them some have bright colors but are less affective and some have barely any colors are desings,they only list what kind of character is printed on the badaid and are more affective which one do u choose ? Well i believe without a doubt you will grab the one thats more colorful and bright beacuase at the moment u wasnt thinking what type of affect will u have !
                                                                        Later down the line u relize that the choice you made wasnt so much the better choice due to ever five minutes haveing to change that badaid due to it no longer sticking to your skin . You then relize that u should have in fact read that box of colorful bright bandaids before u prchased them cause now you on your way back to the store to purchase more banaids cause there isnt anymore and they are still needed . 
                                                                       So therfore next time u go to the store to purchase banaids that are durable and long lasting will you are will u not pay attention to the details on the box ? Most peeple wont and they'll most likely buy the same ones they just ran out of due to the way it appeared on the shelf . I do believe that apperence of things should be considered more often if people would pay attention to what really is instead of what it looks like they would see a big difference in there daily living ! These things will never end they will never go away . The world will manipulate anyones mind at any time whenever they feel they can esspecially by the apperence of things. So therefore this argument is self explained that the beuty in things will always win the way that things are pesented will always be somone first decision . 
                                                                 What kind of world would this be if things were'nt made to look beautiful and radiant to catch the eye of the public . Showing something or someone in the latest trend will make u look twice and wonder what can i do to become more like that are look more like that . Something will always appear better than its actual worth are ability . These types of situations is what makes the world go around and keeps everyone up to date with the ability your being shown . I am not the best at writting an argument im better at speaking on something with others present . I tried my hardest to do the best i could !
