Materialism is rampant in the world today, especially in American society. The pervasive nature of advertising and the cultural expectation to constantly buy new material goods is proof of this. Although the consumption of material goods can bring about simple and sometimes beneficial good feelings, the excessive materialism present in modern society should be criticized. 

The current state of materialism in the US is a direct result of the needs of a capitalist economy. Without a constant market for new goods, the system cannot be profitable. This ever-present need for production leads to exploitive and inhumane treatment of workers both domestically and around the world. To keep up with the demand, companies time and time again undercompensate and overwork their employees, and often put them in danger. This problem is worse when we over consume goods produced abroad- in countries like the US we are removed from the foreign workers whose labor produces these goods, and do not consider how we are taking advantage of sweat-shop-like conditions. A reduction in materialism would remove this constant push for companies to overproduce, and with smart planning and law-making, would reduce the exploitation of workers. 

Materialism also leads to excessive waste. A materialistic culture encourages people to constantly replace goods with newer and "better" versions and to discard old ones. There is an emphasis on the production of new goods, but almost no attention paid to the responsible disposal of old items. So, not only are carbon emissions and resource depletion heightened from overproduction, pollution and waste buildup are also results of a materialistic culture. 

Some may ask why we should criticize the whole of materialism- what about the simple joy that comes from buying inexpensive new products? All materialism isn't inherently harmful, but our society is becoming addicted to the quick rush of pleasure that purchasing and using new objects brings, and this rush comes at the cost of the wellbeing of workers and our environment. In a world that makes it so hard for so many people to sustain a good quality of life, our excess resources would be much better spent ensuring livable conditions for human beings world-wide.

Although materialism may not be an inherently negative concept, the level at which it is present in modern socety is harmful. A materialistic culture that pushes for overproduction and overconsumption only serves to exploit the most vulnerable populations amongst us and adds ever-greater pollution and damage to our environment. Because of these reasons, materialism in modern society should be re-evaluated and criticized accordingly with the goal of changing for the better. 
