When was the last time you went to the store? How often have you used the items you purchased since you purchased them? How often have you felt that you simply had to have something? How many time have your children thrown a fit for something until you purchased it for them? How many versions of your cellphone do you have lying in a drawer or has been discarded? All these questions lead us to examine ourselves, asking, "How materialistic am I? What importance do things have in my life? Do thing really make me happier. At the same time someone once said, "The best things in life are free." Which of these beliefs are  true? Which views hold true? 

In this essay I will share my own thoughts on materialim and challenge you to examine your own opinions aswell. Do things or people bring the most pleasure to my life?

I live in the United States. I can't watch TV, turn on the radio, or go down the road without someone trying to sell me something. Many of the thing they want to sell me are legitimate needs in my life. I live in the country, I need a car to go to the store or appointments. Some things they are trying to sell are things I want. For example any dependable vehicle will get me to the store, but they tell me the feeling a particular vehicle has will bring me an exhiliration, make me popular, make me manly. 

The point is we all need stuff. Imagine a world with no cars, we wouldn't get very far, quite literally. Imagine a world without soap, or toothpaste, or deodorant. So many of the products we consume add genuine quality to our lives. They indeed make us happier.

Now thing about this. How many times have you ever thought about buying something like the car that you wanted all to yourself. You didn't want anyone else to use it, or see it? It's my position that we enjoy things so much because they are made to bring us together with others. We usually want the nice car so others will envy us, or to make our families trip more comfortable. We want to purchase the toothpaste, deodoraunt, and soap to make us more acceptable and hygenic to others. We go on to buy perfumes and scents to make us attractive. Most things I can think of outside of food is aimed at bringing us closer to others. 

There is an old addage, "You can't take it with you when you go." Many have discussed the last words of thier dying loved ones. They rarely if ever say, "If only I bought a bigger, nicer car." Instead they say , "If only I had driven to see my dad and mom. If only I had took my kids camping or to the beach."

My conclusion to the matter is that people make us happy. The car rusts, the house may burn down, but our memories of the moments we have spent together last a lifetime. Lets invest our money in those things that bring us together. Let's put the phone in the drawer for a while with the old ones and do something that we will never forget and never regret. Let's use our materalism to grow closer together. This will bring us true happiness! May you live a life of love and friendship, making fond memories.
