Every year I watch the Super Bowl, not only for the game but most importantly to see what commercials will be presented. The biggest questions I ask myself is will the game be more interesting than the commercials, what commercial will be controversial and which commercial will actually lure me into buying a specific product. The thing to remember is the commercial always makes something look much better than it really is. This essay will consider the effect of ambiguous advertisements and whether images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. Many people may see know harm with the power that advertising holds in our society, I on the other hand am very skeptical of the long term effects advertising can have on the consumer.

During the Super Bowl the commercial that stuck out to me the most was the Crypto.com commercial that simply had a QR code bouncing around the screen. Of course I was curious as to what this ad actually was, but I was slighly irked that I had to use my phone and go to an unknown website. I believe this advertisting is dangerous because it creates a dangerous habit for consumers to simply click on something without actually knowing what they are doing. My position is firm that these types of commercials can be dangerous to the consumer. We continue to now see tons of sports betting advertisements with celebrities having a good time and being happy, this again is dangerous leading the consumer to not understand the ill effects of sports betting.

Commercials and advertising can be dangerous, which is why we do not see cigarette ads any more. We all know that cyber crimes can affect any company or indivdual at any time and the rates continue to rise. I believe the Crypto.com advertising confuses people of all ages to simply click on something without knowing the dangers. Some may say that this type of advertising does not have any consquences but I believe it makes everyone even more vulenarble to cyber attacks. Others who disagree with me may also argue that its not the advertisers fault that the consumer makes poor decisions.

I support creative advertising and understand that businesses need to make money, but I believe we need to always protect the consumer. This may sound harsh but these ambiguous commercials can lead us down a very dangerous path without understanding the long term effects. 
