      Happiness is pursuing that someone 's need and try to help in the difficult situation. Everyone should live with their own happiness. And achieve the desire goals leads to be the happiness in the one person life. Happiness bring to show the humanity to other people. Happiness is a kind of social motive also. It is a best emotion in the world.

 
      Money can't buy happpiness. It is different for rich and poor people. Because rich people should not sacrifice or happy what they have. But poor people always be happy with whatever they had in the lives. It is a rare different for each different peoples. It is mostly associated with they share their happiness with others even it is small. In the world everyone should happy with whatever they had. It is a best thing in the world. 


     Happiness is described as whatever the people succeed in their career, relationship or some sports of the personal lives. If they win in their personal lives they became happiness in the world. Happiness is love your own company, and be happy with your own company. Happiness is basically a state of mind. It is something you feel from within yourself.                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                         
