The term "materialism" is one that carries a lot of negative connotations, but is it a deserved reputation? In this essay, I will argue that it is not. As with most words for expressing abstract ideas, the situation isn't entirely black-and-white, and materialism does have its pros and cons, but ultimately, it is a worthwile philosophy to pursue.

First, let's ask ourselves why people take issues with materialism. To be very materialistic is often associated with being shallow, incurious, perhaps even vapid. Calling someone "materialistic" can be a much more negative expression than to simply describe oneself as a "materialist", but the two terms do refer to more or less the same idea; it's just that people don't typically comment on the materialist tendencies of others unless they're specifically trying to be critical of those values.

And there's certainly an argument to be made that to be concerned ONLY with material wellbeing is perhaps something of an oversight. No one knows for sure what happens after we die, but a lot of people have certainly found it worth considering more spiritual aspects of life as well.

But conversely, it's possible to go too far in the opposite direction, i.e., moving away from an embrace of materialism to the point that one cannot even allow themselves to enjoy the simple pleasures of life because of some lofty notion of how one should only be satisfied with the so-called "higher pleasures" of the mind, nevermind that the body may require something else entirely.

People can easily get caught up in the idea that they shouldn't NEED to attend to their materialistic needs. However, as some individuals on social media have recently observed via the viral distribution of memetic ideology as conveyed via modern-era pictographics (i.e., memes), "that's the point, that's the point, that's LITERALLY THE WHOLE POINT." 

The thing that not many people will admit is that pleasure is not an inherently bad thing. As those in the aforementioned meme threads have pointed out, it's literally the whole point. It might be true that there is such a thing as too much pleasure or being unable to find a healthy balance between work and pleasure, but neither of those situations are inherent condemnations of pleasure itself; on its own, it's a fantastic evolutionary tool for motivating behavior that will lead to increased survival rates for the species, and philosophically, at least one lifelong student of the mind has made the case that pleasure is literally the only supposed good which is inherently self-justifying. You can ask why things like virtue and honor and justice are good, and many possible reasons can be offered for why those are indeed good things; however, when asked why pleasure is good, philosophers will  often point out that the answer is as simple as, "because it's pleasurable." While this might seem like circular reasoning, it really just means that we can take the positive value of pleasure as a starting assumption here.

People who look down on materialistic concerns are, more often than not, people who have at some point internalized the notion that other peoples' lower pleasures are somehow not as good as their so-called "higher" pleasures, but one could easily make the argument that to pursue any supposed good whatsoever is to pursue it for the pleasure that it will bring. Even when a goal involves hard work, is physically or mentally or emotionally demanding, or has a lot of very unpleasant requirements, people still intrinsically want to do things that matter to them, and they feel pleasure when they do so; whether the source of that pleasure was the successful pursuit of a materialistic goal or of a non-materialistic goal, it still feels good either way, and it's still a good thing either way. One is not inherently any better than the other.

As far as anyone knows, literally the entire point of life (to the extent that anyone can even reliably claim that there IS a point) is to enjoy life as much as possible. No one knows what (if anything) will come after this life, so it really would be best not to waste it by constantly trying to deny any disparity between one's existant material circumstances and one's ideal material circumstances. That doesn't mean you necessarily need to put materialistic concerns above all others,  but nor should you completly ignore them in favor of other ideals -- the key to a life well lived is balance in all things, and this is no different.
