Materialism should be criticized. Because of modern society we will have materialism because everybody is trying to be happy by buying expensive things. Buying will make a person happy but it will not make you happy for a long time. A person would be happier in the long run by doing something like spending time with family. A person can keep those memories forever. Material things will evenutally fade or break.

I don't like materalism because I prefer to experience things like spending time with family or going outside and enjoying the weather. A person can go break by spending too much money on material things. Some people spend more money on material things instead of worrying about the important things like taking care of their house and payments. 

Yes materalism should be criticized because people should be concerned about the more important things in like family and friends. People worry too much about material things when they should take that time to spend time with their friends. There is more to life than materialism. Materialism will not last and it will on make a person happy for a short period time and then he or she will go on the next best that they want to buy. I myself do get caught up in materalism. My materalism comes from buying too many books, video games and art materials. But I do not think it is bad because those kinds of things are hobbies. It does keep me busy but I do worry about buying the next best book or video game. For example I want the Playstation 5 but because it is hard to get buy because of the pandemic I will choose to wait until a later date. Now at the time I am reading books and coloring. I tend to have a habit of buying art materials I do not need. I find a reason to get unhappy with what I have and I end up buying something new. 

I'm not perfect and I agree modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. Yes I am materialistic when it comes to my hobbies. But some people go to the extremes like buying expensive cars when they car they already have is in good condition.  Some people just like to show off to their friends and  then the friends will buy something that do not need. It is a never ending cycle  that needs stop because some people will go in debt buying things that they do not need. But for modern society there is need to be materialistic. I think also because people are materalistic it leads to kids being bully as well. Materialism needs to end for society to be better and for people to be happier. 
