Have you ever wondered, what it would be like not to be able to feel that over whelming feeling of happiness when you buy that special item that you have always wanted? The over sensation of  saddness for that special item when it breaks. This is just some of the things that happen to us emotionally because we have grown up idolizing materialistic things. 
                  In todays society children can not even go to school, without having the propers 'brands' of clothing on or they will be bullied. This goes back to the parents teaching them that money is more important then spending time and effort on them.                                                                                   
                 We are made to think that anything big or little that we can hold or just see is supposed to make or break our happiness. We as a society have become materialistic. I want to share a few things in this essay of my sole opinion on how the world that we have grown up in has become so materialistic.  
                  People in general love to spend money and alot do not care about how much, they spend as long as they have what they want. Alot of people have triggers and have become hoarders. Spending money is the only thing that makes them happy. Thus filling their homes to full capacity. Losing their own homes to the selfish act of materialistic things. This has actually become a pandemic for the United States. More and more families are losing loved one to their materialistic ways. 
                  The time lost with loved ones is a undenied amount of forever lost and forgotten memories. We have forgotten the most important thing in life, and that is living. Living, showing love and making memories that we can and will forever have, instead of 'things'. Making you and your family happy, loved and feel enojyable is more important then buying them things. Any gift that you can get from the store is not that important. I promise. 
                   My sole Opinion about this subject is that 'YES' as a society, we should be criticized as a whole for being to materialistic. It takes a community to raise a child, and we are not doing it right by showing them that 'Things' are more important than family. Moral of this essay is to hopefully get someone to understand that actions, love and time are way more important then any gift from a store that money can buy!
             
