Materialism is something that is encouraged in most modern societies. From birth, people are socialized to acquire possessions in order to show one's wealth and as a measure of success. We are encouraged to become educated in order to be productive members of society. We compete with others to get well-paying jobs. Earning a decent amount of money enables us to buy nice homes to live in, nice clothes to wear, and nice vehicles to drive.

Mass media has become more pervasive in modern societies over the past few centuries. It presents us with descriptions and images of the rich and poor, and makes it clear that one should aspire to be rich. Women's magazines have encouraged women to desire to have the latest fashions since at least the 19th century. With the advent of motion pictures and television, people were more able to see how the wealthier people live. The internet has made information about the lifestyles of the rich even more accessible. 

Advertising--in newspapers, magazines, radio, television, and the internet--breeds materialism. We are coaxed into buying the latest car, athletic shoes, fast food entree, etc., by being shown images of attractive people using or consuming these items. Some peer pressure is also involved; one is being told that everyone else is buying these items, so in order to be accepted and admired by others, they should, too. Social influencers are becoming more common on the internet, precisely because manufacturers know that their opinions can often persuade people to buy certain items. 

It's unfair to criticize modern society for craving material possessions when we're constantly being bombarded by advertising. Even if one decides not to own a TV or computer, one still sees billboards on the streets and highways, and receives advertising in the mail. The only way one can avoid advertising entirely is by living off the grid in a forest or in a remote desert, and even then, there is still the possibility that an airplane will fly overhead pulling an advertising banner, or have a corporate logo painted on its side! 
