How much do pictures affect our behavior and opinions?  We see colorful pictures everywhere - for advertising, political propoganda, social interaction, and even on road signs.  Do these pictures affect how we move and behave in the world?  Many road signs are now pictures instead of words because scientists say we comprehend the pictures faster than we do words.  Does that mean that we pay more attention to the pictures in advertisements, political campaigns, and social media than we do the actual words?   That could be concerning.
I would like to think that I pay attention to the words.  I wouldn't want colorful pictures to cause me to make a wrong or negligent decisions.  Our language is the most important and most definitive way that we have to communicate and understand.  A happy photo of a good looking model doesn't really tell you how good the product is.  It could be very misleading.  I think that advertisers especially use pictures to intentionally affect our emotions and decisions so that we will be more likely to buy their product.  But do we really need it?  Is it really as good as the pictures make us think it is?
I would like to challenge us all to enjoy the artistry, the beautiful pictures, and the attractive models, but pay close attention to the words.  Don't let ourselves be manipulated by pictures and colors.  Some of our decisions are very minor, but some are highly important and deserve our best effort.  Read the actual words and think about it.
Do you think you have ever made a faulty decision because you were manipulated by the pictures?  Do you think it really mattered?  I know that advertisers have a job to do and they want to sell their product, but some of these decisions are important. Maybe we sometimes spend money that we should save because we are tempted by the advertising - the pictures.  Do we sometimes buy things that we don't really want or need because we a tempted by the pictures?  We could be mislead negatively by pictures we don't particularly care for.  That could also be a mistake.  
I would like to think that I made the best decisions that I can and don't let myself be mislead by pretty colors and pictures.  Even though I really love art, I don't want it to manipulate my decisions.  However, I think our world would be much less interesting without the pictures and colors.  I do have some appreciation for the people who create these pictures for us to enjoy, but I think the words are more important.  Have you ever seen one of those tests where it asks you to choose a word, but the word "blue" is written in red?  You have to focus to get it right.  I really found that interesting.  I saw the word blue, but I saw the color red.  Watch out!  You could be fooled.  We all could.

