When we ask ourselves questions about the medie and its' effects on us as humans, I think that that the images and impressions portrayed on socials media, in ads, and seen all around us have too much of an effect on people. When I say this, I mean that we are very easily persuaded into buying something, or choosing a certain good or service based on the images we see surrounding it.
One example of when I experienced this was when I had decided to buy Lays brand Doritos. I had picked these out because it was a brand I was familiar with, I liked the packaging, and I remembered seeing a lot of advertising around it. I enjoyed my doritos at the moment, but the next time I went to the grocery store, I had noticed the store brand was cheaper by about a dollar. I decided to try this brand instead of the Lays brand, and enjoyed the chips just as much. This shows me that the brand name of 'Lays' has a very strong effect on me. 
Another time I recall imaging and ads having a strong effect on me was when I saw and ad for the store Target. I remember the ad had a very catchy song, bright images, and people dancing and having a fun time. I enjoyed the ad in the moment, but once it was over, I asked myself, "What was that ad even for?". It was not until the next time I saw this ad that I noticed the small target symbol in the corner of my television screen. This made me realize how much I got lost in this ad in the moment.
Something I also recall is one of my friends trying something called 'dropshipping'. This is where you set up a website, list items for sale that you purchase from a large retailers, and try to sell them. I remember my friend posting ads on Twitter, Instagram, and Snapchat. The images in the ads she had posted were not taken by her, and she had never used the products in the images. She was advertising these images as if they were designer, when in reality she had bought each pair of sunglasses for about one dollar. This showed me that anyone can create an appealing looking ad while not saying much about the product.
I could see why some people might say that advertising and imaging can help a brand and help people decide what to buy. But at what point is it too controlling and effective? When I realized that I was paying about 25% more just for the name brand of chips, I realized I would rather save some money and experience the same quality of food. 
All in all, I believe that ads and images seen in social media have a stronger effect on people than we might think. I have seen this in ads shown on television, on social media, and even in the grocery store. These experiences I have had show me how we can get lost in images and aesthetics rather than researching the technicalities behind the products we are purchasing and consuming. 
