When considering happiness, I think people are usually happier when they focus on the happiness of others. It's of course important to focus on personal goals but in general, making people happy in turn makes yourself happier. Focusing on family as well as general humanity helps people in their own lives because seeing others happy is a way to ensure happiness in your own life as well. 

As far as focusing on your own family, making sure their needs are met as well as making sure they are happy is enough to make most people happy themselves. Personally, seeing my husband and son happy makes me happy in return. Something as simple as going to a park and seeing my sons face light up on the swings makes me incredibly happy. Additionally, one of my favorite things is getting small gifts for my family and loved ones just because. Surprising my mom with a cookie from her favorite bakery or my best friend with a Starbucks gift card because I know how hard she's been working is something I often do. People are so appreciative of small gestures and I love investing in those relationships and seeing them happy. 

When looking at humanity overall, activities like volunteering or even just donating money to a good cause allows people to feel like they are contributing to the improvement of humanity. I know when I've volunteered for local organizations it makes me feel good to see other people getting help they need. One of my family's favorite Christmas traditions is "adopting" a child from an angel tree and getting them gifts that they wouldn't have received otherwise. It's such a special tradition in my family and I can't wait for my son to be old enough to fully understand what we're doing.

Additionally, donating money to worthwhile causes makes people feel good as well. There's a reason platforms like Go Fund Me have become so popular. Even something as little as 50 cents can make a huge difference when so many people are contributing. Additionally, we always see those chains at fast food restaurants when people pay for the person behind them. It's always a nice feeling knowing you're making someone's day just a little bit brighter. It's of course always amazing to be a recipient of something like that as well. I think it shows people that others aren't as mean and ill intenetioned as the internet might make them believe.

Overall, I've found throughout my life that my personal goals have actually turned into contributing to the happiness of others. It's a personal goal of mine to see my family happy as it uplifts me as well. That along with working with charities and contributing to the happiness and improvement of humanity makes me incredibly happy as well. I think in general most people feel the same way and it makes them happy to see others happy. Living a life where you solely focus on yourself and goals that only benefit you sounds pretty sad and isolating. But focusing on others is exciting and gets people that love you to be really happy for you and share in your excitement when you do achieve your own personal goals.
