               Where happiness begins and starts is not a simple concept to define. Some believe happiness only comes when you focus on others. Some also believe that happiness comes only when you focus on yourself and achieve your own goals. Though it is important to focus on one's own goals, happiness will only continue if others are involved as well, even if it is not the focus; it can be unconcious. By working on your goals, you can be inspiring others or teaching others, and that is a motivation of itself.
               Generally in most cases, when someone works on a personal goal they end up affecting people in some way. The reason for this is because most people need to make money in our society, or they end up networking with others or learning from others in some way to develop their goals.  When a person shares their hobby with others or helps other in some way, you tend to see the most happiness and satisfaction.  When that goal is done in isolation, generally people will start to feel empty. Human beings are driven to want to be greater person than themselves. 
               Human beings are social creatures. We thrive in communites and being around others. Research has show those that are more isolated tend to be more depressed and anxious. Those that have support and community, along with other factors, tend to me more successful and happy. 
              Some may argue that there are plenty of individuals that are successful, working on personal goals that are "happy." I would argue that at some point there needs to be a motivation beyond themselves that is helping them stay motivated. Some examples may be "I want to lose weight so I can have more energy for my kids." "I have a cat collection and when other people see it it makes them smile." If you see someone saying "I just completed the most difficult video game that took me weeks to do," I believe if they had no meaning other than that goal, that "happiness" will float away in minutes. I am not against video games, by the way. Being part of a video game community can bring fulfillment as well. 
             If you closely, when viewing someone who is successful and happy, you will almost always find somewhere how they are viewing it beyond themselves. So they may not be focusing on it conciously, but it will unconciously be about the happiness of others as well. This can interpreted as being inspiring or a role model to others. People need people, and that includes our indivudal goals self centered goals as well. 
