                                                               SUCCESS
INTRODUCTION
                                What is success?Where is this success come from?How do we achieve success in our life? Does success really important in your life? If you succeed , what will you get?Are you nothing without success? There are so many questions in your mind right now. But here we are mainly going to discuss about "Does this success comes by cooperation or by competetion? Let's discuss about it.
SUCCESS BY COOPERATION
                                What is cooperation?If you want to achieve something, you must give your hundred percent cooperation  in it. without the cooperation you couldn't find you success. It will take the important part in your success. For example,If you want to succeed in your studies, you have to cooperate your teachers.If you want to succeed in your sports, you have to cooperate your coach. If you want to succeed in your office, you have to cooperate your teammates. So cooperation takes one of the important part in your success
SUCCESS BY COMPETITION
                                What is competition? when you compete with other to get the success is a competetion.All the human in the world need the competetion spirit.Parents need to teach their kids to compete with others from their childhood. In this current world every single thing is under the competetion. Schools,Industries,companies,technologies,sports and many.So we have to prepare to competete in this real world .
CONCLUSION
                                On the whole cooperation and competetion are playing important roles in our success.if you want to taste a real success you have to cooperate with your supporters who is behind in your success. in the same way, you must have the competetion spirit in you.  this both fruit will take you to the next level of your life..The people achieve more success in this world they definetely got those success by cooperative and by competetion.

