As the old addage goes, "don't judge a book by its cover." But how many individuals read books anymore anyway? We live in a time in which the cover is more important than the content. Many researchers note the ever-decreasing attention span of the average person, which may explain a plethora of emerging social media marketing tactics, the lip filler craze, and how the United States poltical stage seems to feed off of shock value. The fact that becoming an "influencer" is now a popular career path tells us that images, visuals, and impressions have too much of an effect on people.

Although marketing, public relations, and advertising have always worked to influence individuals to create a desired impression or a desired outcome, social media and shortened attention spans have changed what is attractive and effective to the public. Brands that once required commercials and advertisements a nostalgic or emotional appeal in commercials now only requires a perfectly engineered, heavily-filtered Instagram model that people either want to be with or that people want to be. 

Politicians that once required thoughtful, persuasive speeches now only require a couple hundred characters and a Twitter platform. At the core, these tactics are hollow. There is no real message, and there is no real substance. Once, that inflammatory Tweet was a written address given with decorum and respect for others, working to deescalate conflict into something more productive.

The Instagram model has nothing to say about the products they sell except that they get them for free and they are paid to take attractive pictures using the products. Once, that Instagram model might have been an Olympic athlete on a cereal box. An accomplished, inspired, driven, role model and the pinnacle of strength. It said breakfast is important for making you strong and healthy and able to accomplish your dreams. 

Priorities have changed. How sexy, shocking, divisive or meme-worthy someone or something is seem to have the greatest impact on how much attention people pay, where they spend their money, and how much time and emotional energy they invest in a topic. All current trends are pointing in the direction that drama is what affects people the most.
