While competition may be what many think is the best approach to life and business, it isn't always the most efficient way to support progress.  Competition certainly promotes progress, but it also can stand in the way of it. 

The difference between competition and cooperation isn't as profound as some may think.  Without cooperation, competition would become so cut throat that it could actually stand in the way of the kind of progress that leads to evolution of our societies and our way of life.  

Many times, when the competitive approach is taken, people and their great ideas are often ignored or even unheard, leaving those ideas unresearched or forgotten in the grand scheme of things.  Take for instance, the concept of teamwork.  This is a good microcosm of a cooperative approach.  People sit down and exchange ideas and come up with plans and solutions that just one person would not have thought of on their own. Think tanks, as they are called, are not uncommon in many business settings, and it those concepts could be expanded upon, it could open up new avenues of solutions and development.

A prime example of this concept is evident when Edison invented the light bulb.  He pulled together a team of great minds, and they worked together on a common goal to bring light into the darkness.  Many think he came up with his own ideas, but that isn't entirely true.  In fact, many don't know this, but it was a person of minority who came up with the proper material for the filament.  It is a fine example of the microcosm I referred to as team work.  While many of the minds in that "think tank" were certainly brilliant enough to go out on their own, and indeed Tesla did, they stuck together on the most part and because they did, they succeeeded in ways that Tesla could not on his own.  Edison's group was able to feed off one another's ideas, refining them into marvelous inventions, among which is the lightbulb.  On the other hand, while Tesla did succeed in finding AC which was better than Edison's DC, he never went further than that in developing his ideas into practical applications for the real world.  Without the cooperation of brilliant minds, we could not be enjoying the fruits of that collaboration today.  

Cooperation is definitely the key to progess, without it, we would be stuck in an endless cycle of competition, pushing the same concepts and keeping our focus on just staying ahead of the present game.  If we can just manage to shift our paradigm from competition to cooperation, we could achieve greatness in our business realms as well as our personal lives.
