     Happiness can come from a multitude of sources, but what is the most likely cause of one's happiness? Is it focusing on your own personal agenda, such as goals, likes, dislikes, wants or needs, or could it be casting your own personal goals and agenda aside and focusing on the happiness of others? To answer this, one must analyze the idea of happiness, what it may entail, and whether it is strictly one or the other. I believe that happiness is more likely to come to those who put the gratification of others before themselves. Once this occurs, happiness will come to them naturally. The old saying goes, "misery loves company", and I believe happiness to have the same effect. If those around you are joyful, your measure of your own personal cheer will likely increase. To create joy for others is to outwardly spread your own happiness.
     In society, those who tend to focus on themselves in order to be happy tend to alienate those around them. While being laser-focused on their own well-being, they neglect to take into consideration the feeling of the people closest to them. As this occurs, they are in fact spreading discord, which can then seep back into their life by the outward expression of other's disapproval, thus affecting the happiness they are attempting to build by focusing on their own goals. One could also argue that you must first be content with yourself in order to bring delight to others. While this may seem true on the surface, how can anyone be satisfied with themselves surrounded by troubled people and with no intention of remediating the gloom? The answer is, you can't if you are looking for true contentment. One must cast away selfishness and think more of society as a whole.
     Arguments could be made that happiness is subjective, just as they say "beauty is in the eye of the beholder". One reason for one person's happiness could be a reason for disdain in another. This idea soldifies the thought that fixating on others' contentment could bring a new light to what makes you happy internally. For one to truly be happy, the focus must be outward in order to allow the natural internal bliss to occur. Doing good for others and society, bringing happiness to those around you while removing the focus from yourself is the key to being happy. External gratification creates internal satisfaction. 
