More, more more; it seems as though as a society, we never have 'enough.'  Although we may love to argue against it, materialism is ultimately an unfortunate crux to the core of our society.  As time has gone by, technology and skills have advanced, and with those developments came the creation of new inventions and products meant to make our lives better, easier, and/or more enriched.  Looking around today, there are very few examples left of olden times; our world is quite different than what is was hundreds of years ago.  Therefore, while we tend to be quick to judge those who live extravagent lifestyles consumed by 'stuff,' modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic because it is simply how the world works.

Although the term materialistic definitely promotes a negative connotation, criticizing society as a whole for succumbing to this way of life is simply unfair.  Being materialistic simply means that an individual relies on 'things' to better enhance their quality of life.  In all honesty, who among us does not do just that?  Most households today have two cars, dishwashers and washing machines are common appliances, and iPads and laptops are necessary commodities to function at work and school.  Does using, and in some cases, relying, on these material items mean that we should all face harsh judgement pertaining to our modern way of living?  Undeniably, material items are simply necessary in this day and age.

Where materialism gets a bad rap is through the way in which people conduct themselves regarding their belongings.  A person can have and utilize a number of material items without acting in a greedy or negative manner.  In fact, there are a number of individuals that would be considered materialistic by the true definition of the word, but actually contribute a great deal to society through charitable donations and actions.  On the other hand, there are also a great deal of individuals that focus on the acquisition of material items in order to make themselves appear more affluent, or more important, than they actually are.  It is due to these individuals that flaunt their materials posessions that the term materialistic has taken on such an unfavorable connotation.  

Given that we live in a time where technology continues to advance at a rapid pace, we, as a society, must utilize certain material items in order to work, learn, and advance ourselves.  Being materialistic is not something that should be criticized, but rather, accepted.  After all, we truly are living in a material world. 

