The American Dream is no more. Although it is still possible to achieve a rags to riches success story in America, that success is so much harder to achieve with an endless cycle of labor and greed for material posessions. It is easier than ever to purchase anything you could ever want with the click of a button, and there is a cornucopia of influencers on social media showing off a life of wealth and excess - the new American Dream. Gone is the white picket fence of homeownership, the emphasis on family, and America now revolves on the purchase and showing off of material posessions. Modern society has lost sight of the core of America - family and opportunity - and has been mired in the pursuit of the hollow success of material goods. 

For millenials and Gen Z, the purchase of a home seems impossible. The balooning cost of property, rising rent prices and inflation has shifted the needle as the former American dream seems impossible to achieve. Instead, the purchase of expensive clothing, excessive trips or intangible NFT's has become a sign of success and achievement. The particularly wealthy show off their ownership of numerous AirBnBs or apartments as they gleefully charge exorbitant rent. It has become harder than ever to rise from the bottom, so the average American can only cling to the goal of purchasing a new TV or owning an electic car. 

These material goods are road blocks to a better future, a future with the ownership of a home where one could raise a family. The easy, smaller material purchases make the seemingly unattainable traditional dream of home ownership unattainable. Instead, the average American is condemed to pay excessive rent, doomed to toil away working until past the age of retirement. It seems impossible to raise a family since there is no extra money, birth rates are declining as a family is deemed too expensive between rent, inflation and the seemingly necessary material purchases. The endless consumption causes a loop into a zombie-like routine where there is no hope. The traditional American Dream is dead in a soulless world of capitalist overlords. 
