In today's society, there is a mass proliferation of media to consume. From countless news sites to YouTube videos to TikToks promoting whatever products an influencer reviews, we are constantly bonbarded with information. Oftentimes because of how much we see and consume, we tend to focus on advertisements, packaging and the such that appeal to us the most. Maybe the face of your favorite celebrity is printed on a cereal so you're tempted to buy it. In any case, we believe in what we see, in what we hear and that often forms the basis of our decisions.  Images and impressions have a significant impact on people, perhaps even to a detrimental degree especially regarding our body image. 

We believe in what we see. That has often been true since the beginning of civilization. Oftentimes, we hear people talk about not believing something unless they see it with their own two eyes. Media, companies, stores and more know this and that is why they are constantly innovating ways to advertise certain products or shape our opinions about something (and it works, if even we know in our heads that we might not need the item). For example, if you see your favorite K-pop group advertising for a specific phone (i.e. BTS and Samsung) with one of their latest hit singles playing in the background of the video, you would probably be more convinced to buy it than a different phone that is perhaps better because of the endorsement that your favorite K-pop group gave to that first phone. Humans are visual creatures--we are drawn to the colorful images, packaging and interesting stories (which is why social media like TikToks are so popular). It keeps the world going and the market healthy with companies vying for the best way to appeal to their consumers.

However, there is a downside to all the media that we consume. With the proliferation and popularization of various social media platforms, people are able to see each other pictures and videos with ease. Although this is great if you're checking up on what your friend is doing, where  your favorite celebrity is on vacation or the latest great cat video released by an infamous person you really like, it is also just as easy to start comparing yourself with 'perfect' images. Celebrities, especially models, have enviable body types that you might get jealous of. Then, you see a large majority of the girls in your school working out and dieting to replicate that body type. Suddenly, you're the only one left who looks just like you always did--normal, average, plain Jane. Social pressures are a real thing and they cause people to worry about being perfect or looking 'too ugly' or 'too fat'. These can lead to eating disorders and hits at one's self-confidence. Oftentimes we see these issues and think that they are not a big deal, but they are. People can become depressed over never getting the body they want (and never fitting in) especially if all of the people they see online, celebrities, influencers and more all have a similiar body type. They can become obsessed over it and this can affect their daily lives. Suddenly social media isn't all fun and games anymore; what we see has become far more important than what is right in front of us. 

Images and impressions can have too much of an effect on us and although it can be fun to consume juicy news and scroll through your social media accounts, everything should be done in moderation. Take breaks away from your device when you feel like you are caring more than perhaps you should have. Take a walk instead and in cases where you feel insecure, talk to someone about your worries, whether it's your friend, your therapist or a random stranger on a helpline. And remember, don't always believe in what you see. There are people whose careers revolve over marketing strategies for products you think you need, but you don't, there are whole industries revolving around the 'perfect body'. At the end of the day, be a skeptic and take all of the images and impressions you see with a grain of salt. 
