This essay is on the notion "Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition?"

I would say that in the long run cooperation is the best formula for success. Most of modern business practices are using collaberation in acheiving workplace goals and objectives. This supports all members of team contributing to the best of their ability. It is like a football team, there is generally 24 players that play together as a cohesive unit.  If one player misses an assignment or fails to participate fully then the whole objection could collapse.  This encourages teamwork and the desire for all members to achieve success.  the same principle is often applied in business practices to encourage teamwork to help the company achieve profits in a competitive market situation.  Cooperation allows all members to contribute in their varied talents which makes them feel they are part of something. This encourages good playground behavior.  No one is left out and develops hard feelings. There is not so much pressure to be the top dog in the business struction for example.

Of course not all programs opeerate on a condition of cooperation. The significant example I can think of was the Apple electronics corporation. Steve Jobs the CEO pitted 2 teams against each other to achieve the objectives Mr. Jobs want to see achieved.  This has been described as almost savage competion to see which team could come out on top.  Of course Apple has become one of the most innovative and successful companies ever and has influenced proudcts being developed for use all around the world. 

Competition is the American way in business. The survival of the fitest.  Japanese culture considers it a shame if everything is not done in a way that brings success and not dishonor.  These two countrues have most of the worlds wealth and a high standard of living. We cannot win a gold medal in the Olympics unless in competition someone comes out on top.  This is also true for all sports competition. A war can not be fought with in cooperation with your enemy.

But It is still my position that cooperation is the best motivator of success as a formula. We should have some moral standards where people are not emotionally injured or felt inferior. In any setting savage competition can and will leave many participants burned out and unfullfiled in their work. People also have other life situations that demands their time. They have families, friends and the need to live life in a material world. They need to maintain and keep their bodies healthy.  Long exhausting days are a drag on a persons health. Most all religions in the world encourage and teach a moral obligation to other people in all situations.  Otherwise society will not function well and eventually lead to chaos. So I would submit when you add up all the factors, cooperation in the long term is a much more successful formula to achieve success.
