To parapharse a biblical reference, 'For where you find your treasure, you will find your heart as well.' The statement implies that what people find most important to them is what they will spend their hard earned money and time on.  Materail possession is indeed a most important possession and commodity for many people. Thus, the question stands, should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? Yes, given the amount of access of historcial information, refecting upon the mistakes of others and the importance of contentment, modern society should be harshly criticized.  

First of all, prior to the the 1900s, the average citizen, was not able to have access to mass amounts of public and/or historical information. Most people were not wealhty enough or knowledgeable enough to gain regualr access to historical records.  But given the vast amount of technological availablity to citizens in both first world and second world countries all over the world in the last 50 years especially, there should be a healthy resonsibility with how to monitor materialism in the right and proper way.  

Secondly, the act of being content brings joy and peace that materialism can not bring. By looking at successful tribal societies and religious communities that have thrived for generations that have thrived, modern civilization can learn from past generations and look upon their success and failtures.  

One counter argument could be that modern civilization never had access to such wonderful technological advances and are simply enjoying the marvelous of current society.  Due to the wonderful access of new information and materials, people are simply understanding what they have.  However, there are no barriers to reflect how to use the materials in a meaningful manner as a country as a well.  It would be best to have systems in play to help montitor spending habits.  

In conclusion, modern society should be harshly critizsied because they do have access to technology, historical records and the availiablity to look at societies and systems they have successfully thrived and lived without a wealth of materialism.  

