        Everyone has been happy at points in their lives, but where exactly does this feeling come from? Does this feeling that we all strive for come to us internally or externally, from ourselves or from others? While focusing too much on the happiness of oneself, does the neglect of the happiness of those in our lives prevent the very thing we are focusing on? 
        While goals and aspirations for oneself are eseential. However, without a healthy and happy environment and social network (the real kind, not the warped 140 characterter limit digital versions we see today), it will be very hard to know when to stop and feel satisfied with one's accomplishments. Additionally, if those in your community and life are unhappy, their feelings will weigh down any progess one may make on themselves through means of socialization and everyday interactions. On the reverse, making others happy may tend to create a feeling of satisfaction and appreciation and those around oneself to begin to focus on making others happy as well. This may cause a cascade of healthy interaction and community, of friendship and family, and may even lead people to help each other accomplish those goals and aspirations that they took time away from in the first place.
        Think of a peer, older memeber of the community, or family member, and a troubled youth. He is angry at the world for his situation and is only happy when taking it out on others. The peer, community, or family could well ignore the problems and issues the troubled youth is causing for a time, but eventually these issues may end in property damage or a degeneration of the local community and family. This will lead to issues that impede any personal goals of the others. Additionally, this issue may cascade through the family or community through peer pressure and bad influence. Broken windows and vandalism come to mind, as does violence and harrasment. However, if one was to guide or aid this troubled youth, they may resolve these issues and ease their path to their goals. They may even form a bond and ally in doing so. 
        Some may say that the effort it takes to make others happy is not worth the end result or that they can simply ignore the problem child. They may see moving away from this area as a solution, or simply locking the problem away in a cell if the issue persists and affects them. Perhaps even investing in home security or assigning a law officer to monitor the situation at all times. These acts have their own costs of time, effort, and resources that may be ongoing.
        If this happens in relatively all communities around the country, moving away and ignoring may not be valid options for the general problem. The ongoing costs to control and monitor another individual's extreme unhappiness may outweigh a little effort on focusing on making an unhappy person more content with life and the people around them. What kind of world would the reader rather live in: one where the unhappiness of others is ignored and not dealt with, or one where a little thought and effort can passively rub off onto the original provider? One where an obession on one's own happiness is so extreme that the unhapiness of others prevents the original goal, or one where everyone can mutually benefit in both happiness and their goals and dreams through each other?
