Materialism is something that has take over the zeitgest.  We have found ourselves surrounded by it. It's in our face, in our eyes, and on our minds on a daily basis.  The most fascinating part of all of this is that you may not even be aware that it's happening. Materialism is generally defined at the desire to acquiring as many possessions and therefore, as much money as possible to spend on those possessions.  

Thinking about it for a moment, we come to the a simple thought.  "But we have to buy things to live.  What's wrong with buying things?" This cannot be argued.  In a modern society, certain things are required.  We need a home.  We need food. We need clothing.  We have these basic necessities.  However, this simple misses the point.  There is nothing inherently wrong with purchasing items.  The issues comes when the purchasing becomes extravagent, far beyond the needs of a normal person.  "So, I can't have anything nice?"  Why, of course you can!  Taking on a few luxury items, again, is perfectly fine.  It becomes an issue when this is the sole goal for someone.  Someone needs the BEST items, and the BEST clothing...or in actuality the most EXPENSIVE items.  These things become status symbols to show how successful you are.  This is the root of the problem.

Success is defined by the person themselves.  This success can come from any number of places.  It can come from satifaction with your career.  It can come from rasing a family.  It can come from having a nice garden. But someone who defines their success by what they own will always find that feeling fleating.  There will always be a new mcguffin for them to chase.  Some new verison of that item will arrive, and that purchase will be wiped out.  And now you're back as square one.  Looking externally for validation can leave you hurt.  Looking interally and accepting yourself, and being proud of your accomplishments is a tree that will continue to bear fruit, as long as the tree is watered.  This water comes from persaveriance, hard work, dedication and self-love.

Taking a step back, we also find that the alure of materialism leads to overconsumption.  Conspumption of both raw materials as well as our free time and our mental capacity.  These are all finite resources.  Allowing ourselves to break away from this will lead to a less pollutated world, as well as a less pollutated mind.
