Our country was built on competition. It started with simply the will to survive, and then later, by the desire to be the best. Without competition, our country and our society would not have achieved even 1/10 of what it has. I will support this idea by looking at economic systems, and the comparative success of the U.S.A. to other countries. 

The United States of America is arguably the most successful country in the world, when looking at how long the country has been in existence and what it has thus far achieved, economically. The basis of success of the U.S.A. is competition, and more specifically, the economic system of capitalism. When people work hard to try to outdo one another, they continually improve production,  knowledge and technology and raise the bar for each generation. This desire to be the best is the driving force of our society and is what has allowed the US to be the leader of the world in many fields and industries. It is a very simple equation. The harder I work, the more I can achieve. If someone works harder than me, he will get success. In order to survive, I MUST be better than other. I must be smarter, work harder, produce more, learn more, do more, if I want to get ahead in this world. And if everyone has this same idea, then society reaps the benefits. We get more knowledge, more production, and economically, we are in a far superior position, especially when compared to other countries. 

Can people achieve success by cooperations? Of course. In fact cooperation was also necessary for the success of the US. We can't work alone and by building off the work of others, by using this synery of bouncing ideas off of each other, we see things from a new perspective, and create new products, new ideas, new worlds. However, cooperation without competition will not bring the results, and will not bring success. To look at another economic system, communism, is proof of that. Communism is all about working together for the common good. The problem is people are not as motivated to work hard. They think, well, no matter how hard I work, I will only get so much, so what's in it for me? Yes working together will get society to a certain level. But that burning desire to achieve, to succeed, can only be brought out by fierce competition.
