What you see is sometimes not what you get. Every industry relies heavily on creating mirage of what something or someone is. From men's bodyspray that will get them laid to politicians spreading values that they don't maintain in their personal lives. The question for the everyday person becomes, what is reality when everything is saturated with subjectivity? I argue that the impressions people internalize that are fictional distortions are just as necessary and important as those base in objective reality. The use of propaganda and media manipulation, from goverment regimes to advertising has been around since the dawn of man. The idea that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people doesn't take into account the historical record of such things, nor the knowledge gained through the years by the study of such practices.

The first question that comes to my mind is how much, if at all, does it matter if something isn't as advertised. The difficulty in coming up with a firm conclusion involves the placebo effect. If a toothpaste shows an improvement in well-being and the consumer believes that it is possible that the toothpaste will improve their life, well chances are that it will. There are clear limits to the placebo effect, as well as moral considerations. Snakeoil salesmen selling cure for cancers, as well as religious leaders reccommending their followers forego modern medicine have a huge potential for real harm. Thus, it is important that there be limits placed on fabrication and exageration.

Overall, both the message sender and message reciever are responsible for making sure they understand and communicate clearly correct expecations. If anything, I think it's less an issue of impressions having too much of an effect on people and moreso people blindly trusting the impressions of others. It becomes an echo chamber where you cannot tell where an impression began. But if someone is so convinced that medicine is poison and poison is medicine, it doesn't matter to them which is which. The outcome is the same.
