Cooperation is what is needed for more people to achieve success. Competition is the thing that makes more people fail because they are too busy trying to outperform someone else. I will go over how competition fails people while cooperation helps more of them succeed.
Just the other day, I was watching my son's track meet. I was watching how so many of the kids were so busy staring at the other kids while they were running that it completely affected their ability to run as fast. The kids who were just focusing on running forward were the ones that ran the fastest and succeeded in getting first place. This is a perfect example of how competition only allows a small few to succeed. If my son had been less focused on the person next to him he would have had a chance to get a better time than the previous week's track meet. Unfortunately, we are taught more often than not that winning is everything. We aren't taught as much that cooperation is the key to more success.
When I used to work at a sub shop, I learned fast that if you don't work with the people cooperatively, you will fail to produce the results that your customers want. We knew that we had to work as a well oiled machine so that we could get the sandwiches out quickly to the customers while still having them be in excellent quality. People don't want sandwiches that are missing key ingredients in each bite and they also don't want to wait forever for their food. When we produced good and fast results we all benefitted because people would be more likely to come up and place a tip in the tip jar. If we focused on being faster than someone else that didn't help the whole team succeed and it also made customers annoyed and angry. When you work at a restaurant you don't want to make people angry because you want them to continue to order food so that you can continue to have a job. Cooperation allows more of us to keep getting to do things that we want to do. If we compete ourselves out of jobs than we won't have the necessary money to even pay our bills let alone do other things that we want to do.
In conclusion, willingness to cooperate produces so much more success than competing against each other. If we just cooperated a little more instead of being so concerned about being better than someone else so many more of us could succeed. We also would be able to make a lot more people happy because they would get the end results that they want much faster and of better quality.
