Ahh, materialism, that thing that seeps into every single second of every single day as a modern human on this rock called Earth. What terrible lives we lead, obsessing over the newest useless objects that allegedly make our lives more convenient, yet never seems to add to our advancement as a species. People notoriously allow their material wealth to define them, from the cradle to the grave. We are taught all our lives, from almost every institution, that who you are as a person is defined by the material in your possession. 

I thought about this earlier today, how cavemen didn't have the comforts of materialism to turn to when things went bad. When caveman was frustrated and angry that his fire wouldn't stay lit in the rain, he didn't have a new iphone with the latest head phones to play positive affirmations with advertisements inserted through out to turn to. When ancient man was frustrated, he had to deal with it internally. When man sought comfort, he would isolate himself in the wild, and think.

 I'm not totally against the idea of technology, and material goods. All of these things are fine to have. But have we earned them? Have we the self control to not let the craving for material goods get the better of us as a species? When was the last time any of you people reading this actually sat down by themselves without distractions, and thought about who you really are, without all the wealth, and asinine objects that you allow to define you? When was the last time you spoke to your own self, for yourself, and it wasn't something a corporation implanted in your mind?

If you see a line up of 5 different hand bags, and you look at one of them and say, "oh this is totally me"... You're too far gone. That bag isn't you. That aesthetic isn't you. You're not expressing yourself. You don't even know who you are anymore. You're the walking dead. You're merely a vessel that parrots and consumes. If you're the type of person that thinks they can purchase "happiness" in the form of a poster or mug with some inspirational quote, you're too far gone. If you have a "special snack" or a "go-to" drink that you reach for to be comforted when times are bad, you're too far gone. You probably can't even sit in a room in silence for one hour without going through dopamine withdrawls. 

Sitting for one hour doing literally nothing is actually the most productive thing a materialistic person in today's society could do. Sitting there in silence will naturally lead to thoughts and ideas that are far more meaningful than "oh darn I should buy a new car so the neighbors don't talk about me negatively". I feel like if we were to all practice meditation and learn some self control over our own personal urges, materialism wouldn't be as much of a problem. Materialism is just a symptom of a society that is afraid of its true nature.

Like I said previously, I don't hate material things, but you're supposed to own them, not let them own you. If your sole purpose in life is to wake up and aquire more material things, then may God have mercy on your soul. Materialism has lead to the death of the true self, and lead to the invention of a false self that is sold to the masses. It is the idiots way of patching up their spotty identities.

Even food in the grocery store is following the modern trend of materialism. People buy the trash food that poisons their bodies because a corporation sold them an identity, a personality even. They don't buy the actual nourishing healthy foods, because the powers that be in this modern world want them to eat foods that make them fat, lazy, docile, and stupid. They do not  want a fit population, with functioning brains, that truly know who they really are. A fit population with functioning brains might realize how this society isn't made with their best interests in mind, and just might start making changes. If that were to happen, this whole house of cards falls instantly. 

The people that control this world, do not want you know yourself. That is their biggest fear. If you were to find out your true potential, if we all as a species stopped being distracted by material goods long enough to even think about our true potential, the whole world would change instantly. I pray for that day to come, and I pray that the transition out of this materialistic society into a decent one will be as painless as necessary.
