Materialistic critisism, an upsessive society.

In the modern society materials have taken over our minds, eyes, hands and totality 0f living.  As a culture we have become forever indebeted to our electronic screens and the never ending data stream in our eyes and ears.  We have lost most of what makes life worth living and what it means to really to really be human.

Looking out your window, to the sky, to the stars, to the ground to deep inside of earth.  What do we see anymore? Or do you see nothing and would rather just look it up and find your answeres instantly.  Why do we no longer feel the need to experience life and live through others experiences they have recorded or documented.  The sadness of this word is that we have become so insnared into our devices we no longer can experience the joy of finding out things ourselfs.  Our reward systems of the mind do not process what should be rewardin anymore, instead we need to get it from small intervals shown to us on screens and heard from in recordings.

What do we have to do to fix something like this?  Completely end all materal feelings and connections?  No that is insane and cannot be a logical answer.  The answer is to try to step away with your own free will, to relearn what it means to enjoy life with your own ideas and your own mind.  Everything you thing of can be thought of by someone else and is probably thought of already, but what we need is to just experience finding these things out on our own with the path and traveleing of the mind.  Finding something out with taking time and study instead of instant gratification of information at our fingertips.  What we need is to sit down and learn things slowly and take in information in the correct manner in order to expand our minds.

Conclusively what do you do to find out information in todays society?  Do you think and really use your own thoughts?  Or do you look up things instantly to just find a answer and let it go for the rest of eternitity, no longer thinking for ones self again.  I believe that eventually most people will not think for themselves and will realy on material objects to think for them until only a small fraction of society is able to reall think and enjoy life themselves.   Materials objects such as cell phones computers and tablets have reduced our own minds to secondary thinking computers.  We no longer can function without a screen.  It is a extension of our minds and is not good for the mind in the long run in my opinion.  We need to learn to let go of the screens and think really for ourselves and build your own knowledge base to become yourself, someone different from others, not a mass up of everyone elses ideas in one. 

What is your choice?  To forver be stuck depending on a third eye of artifical light, or will your open your mind with the self work.  The thoughts of your own mind away from materials.  Will you explore this world for yourself? Come up with your own thoughts and ideas or will you follow the ideas of others without your own thoughts.  We are human not plastic, learn to use your mind and body for yourself.
