Many people believe that happiness comes from within. Others believe that serving their fellow man brings about true happiness. Some even believe that setting goals and achieving ones goals can bring happiness. This world needs more happiness, with everything going on these days, with the hate, the violence, and the hateful speech. We need to help others, and be kind to others so we can all find happiness. My personal belief is that one truly cannot know happiness until they give happiness to others. 

I believe true happiness comes from helping others achieve happiness. There are many examples of people working for churches, government jobs, non profit jobs, and jobs that assist others, having high job satisfaction. I also derive some of this belief from my own personal experiences. My favorite jobs have always been jobs where I get to teach, or help others. I also know that many people that seem to be happy are people who work for the church, or volunteer their time to assist less fortunate people. Finally, I recently have become a father, and even though I am more exhausted than ever before in my life, I am more worried about my finances, and I am working harder than ever before, I am the happiest I have ever been when I get to spend time with my daughter and help her learn new things.

Some believe that focusing on personal goals would bring happiness but I don't believe this is true happiness. I believe that people who focus purely on themselves are selfish, and only find temporary happiness when they just work on themselves. The people who are very goal orientated seem to be arrogant, and rude. They tend to push away others just to achieve their own goals. Also when one completes their goals, I believe they fall into a pit of despair when they realize that no one is around the celebrate their goals with them. They tend to look to others to show off their achievements, but they always come off as gloating, rather than, celebratory. Overall, I believe it is lonely on top of the mountain, and people who are more goal orientated should remember that.

My personal belief is that one cannot know happiness until they give happiness to others. helping other is good for the soul, and seeing others laugh and smile make all of us laugh and smile. Focusing on goals is important, however it cannot be what we draw our happiness from. Children's laughter, clean air, clean water, and a just society is what life should be about. I have always found myself to be happier when I am working to help others with their needs. Helping out others, and being kind to others, should always be the goal of life, and should be everyone's personal goal.     
