Modern society is often criticized for being materialistic. For now we will define materialsim being obsessed with the production and accumulation of physical objects used in daily life or collected for display. But to criticize materialism in and of itself is to miss the root issue of materialism - an evolutionary coping mechanism for survival that is no longer relevant to most first-world countries. Materialism can not be broadly condemned without understanding the specific environment and culture that is being assessed.

The Taoist therories of yin and yang are relational terms. An object can not be labeled as yin without having a second reference object to relate the first object to. For example, still water is yin because of its stillness, while a waterfall is yang beause of its movement. The water itself is not yin or yang, but the qualities of movement determine that relationship. Another classic example is the yang, or sunny side of a hill verses the yin, or shady side of a hill. Once the sun peaks at noon, those relationships change and the sunny side of the hill becomes shady and yin. The sun, as a reference, determine the label of yin or yang for the hill.

So what does Taoism have to do with materialism?

Taoism, in general, focuses on letting go of attachments to material things. But the unspoken premise is that one can already easily acquire that which is needed  for daily living - survival materialism. Survival materialiam is neccesary and an evolutionary skill that started with the development of agriculture, food storage and preservation. It ensured health and survival and enabled us to grow bigger brains, stronger bodies and produce healthier offspring so we could evolve as a species.

These days the skills of survival materialism are still needed in many parts of the world. These skills and behavior preferences still surface when faced with natural disasters such as Hurricane Ian. Our communities in Southwest Florida were suddenly thrust into "survival" mode where acquiring food, water and safe shelter were once again primary needs. I would call this yang materialism.

On the other hand, materialism in a first-world environment where basic needs are met and economic production is over emphasised could be considered a yin form of materialism. When large corporations or individuals horde material resources, including wealth, it creates stagnation. Overabundance in production of material goods clutters houses and landfills, creating gluts of garbage and poisoning our natural resources. 

Like all concepts in Taoism, materialism of itself is not "bad." It fulfills basic human needs of survival. But once those needs are met, then balance should be sought for the region, and the person, in question. Even in Lao Zi's time, civilization was advanced enough that "letting go" of material things and personal attachments was an emerging spiritual goal. And in the Christian world, Jesus' disciples also advocated for giving up of material wealth for a greater spiritual wealth. It's a valid concept if you have too much, but if you have too little to survive on, the sacrifice is meaningless and cruel.

So although materialism is the trendy concept to complain about, it is the ultimate first-world problem.


