In today's society, it has become increasingly popular to criticize others for their engagement in materialism. Materialism, or the process of buying things and demonstrating ownership of those items, is a large part of our modern lives. With people like the Kardashians on television and social media flaunting vast wealth and expensive, designer purchases, many people tend to want to emulate this lifestyle. Despite some arguments that this is a detriment to our society, the fact remains that materialism, as a whole, is in large a result of our current societal structure. The way we operate, work and use our free time is nearly entirely dependent on our engagement in materialism.

Observing the life of the average American family, it is relatively easy to see the role that materialism holds over our lives. The day starts early, with a commute to work, and eight-hour shift, a commute home and a few hours spent eating, showering and spending time with family or friends before going to bed and repeating. Our weekends are the only reprieve from this cycle, but that time is also limited. Trips cannot readily be planned and extensive time in the outdoors or doing other tasks requires investments in materials. So what joy can there be with this cycle? Spending the money we earn and enjoying the process of purchasing and displaying those purchases are some of the few things we can do consistently. With companies like Amazon, immediate gratification is right at our doorstep within a day or two. Consumption is the basis of our lives. In the United States, what we consume, be it television, food, or buying purses, are small joys that rectify the inherent machine-like framing of our existence. We are born to work, a cog in the machine so to speak, and no true escape from that reality exists except in special circumstances. So the average American dreams of winning lotteries, or making it big in some other way, and escaping the cyclic nature of the system. When those dreams inevitably don't come true, the next best thing is enjoying what we can and that often includes materialism. Another major factor that promotes materialism is our engagement within social media. There is a consistent pressure to document our lives and lifestyles, aiming to show the best parts, and rarely the negatives. What better way to show others how happy and successful you are, then demonstrating how much money you can spend? With so much emphasis placed on maintaining the image of wealth and status, materialism is a way of defending one's livelihood. It is a way to show the world that we are performing exactly as we should be and we are happier because of it. 

There are arguments that counter these attitudes, however. Some would say that individually, it is our own fault that materialism holds such power over our lives. If, as a collective, we stopped engaging in consumption and purchases of the nature we currently do, our lives would change. There are also statements that criticize the engagement of social media and purchasing for social status, stating the creating false representations of our lives and selves assists in furthering the damage materialism causes. What is important to keep in mind with these arguments, is that there is little consideration for society as a whole. We cannot readily change, even as a collective, the way that our lives are set up. In this country, everything runs on money, power and greed. That is something that has not changed, obvious through less than fruitful political efforts. When we cannot change things like this, we cannot change the structure of our lives. We cannot change how often and how long we work, or how much free time we have. We cannot change the importance of status and the role of social media in our lives, at least significantly, in a short amount of time. So we are stuck in a modern society. To this, we either adapt or suffer. Adaption includes finding joy where we can, and with the amount of time we spend producing and our needs for consumption, materialism is a simple solution. It allows for the permeation of our societal ideals. Money, power, and greed rules all and how we live is designed to promote and continue the cycles that allow those at the top to stay at the top.

Materialism, though controversial, is an innate part of our lives. No different than the the necessity for work or the want to have a family. It is a necessary evil, that provides comfort and joy. It is a distraction and way of coping with our surroundings and to criticize that is to criticize everything. When everything around us promotes this way of life, we have to focus on the roots of those problems. If change is warranted, we would have to change what causes that inherently, which as we can see as a society, is an incredibly daunting task. So for the time being, materialism, spending what little free money we have, is not wrong. It is a way to survive. 

