Happiness is an ambiguous hallmark of success and is defined differently for each individual. Despite this ambiguity, there can be definitive intrinsic and extransic sources of happiness. Happiness can be found in many things, but one more abstract way of achiving happiness is through the pursuit of goals and dreams. Some may argue that happiness is found when meandering through the simple things in life. Others may say that being determined and steadfast to one's goals and dreams can bring the ultimate happiness. I believe that intrinsic happiness contains more longevity when compared to extransic happiness because it can be sustained and is more honestly created. 

Intrinsic happiness, or happiness that is developed out of one's pursuit of their own goals and accomplishments is more likely to persist over long periods of time when compared to extransic happiness. When one is extransically motivated by the dreams or goals of others, once that goal is achieved, the happiness tends to fade with time. Extrinsic happiness is often tied to that singular goal as well, challenging the individual to find multiple sources of extrinsic happiness. By tking the time to develop one's goal, they can adapt it to their dynamic neeeds and wants. The goals of others may be immediate or over long periods of time, and lends to the fact that your happiness becomes dependent on the happiness of others.   

Extrinsic happiness tends to be less genuine when compared to intrinsic happiness. While it is admirable to live to "serve" or "prioritize" the happiness of others, it is very rare for this not to be linked to one's ego. Happiness achieved through the pursuit of "helping others" is fleeting and trivial at best. Even if one achnkowledges this, the happiness they recieve would not be as fulfilling as happiness gained by pursuing a dream or goal that they have determined to be meaningful to them. When one creates dreams and goals for themselves, they are forces to be authentic and honest with themselves. 

On the flip side, some may argue that intrinsic happiness achieved by pursuing one's goals may be narrowminded. Rather by being "others" minded, individuals can find happiness in things they did not realize could bring them happiness before. By serving others, a person is able to interact with happiness that is unintentional and unassuming. Although I can understand how a fixation on happiness can steer one away from finding happiness, I believe that it is imperative for an individual to discover intrinsic factors that lead to one's authentic and everlasting happiness. 

In conclusion, happiness is a reflection of one's values and will resonate most deeply when a person is true to their heart. By thinking deeply and identifying one's own goals, they are able to pursue their happiness fervently and honestly. Thus the pursuit of one's sincere goals will bring them the utmost happiness within one's life. 
