There are times when one may think their own happiness comes from the happiness of those around them, and while that may be true to some extent, what happens to that person when they aren't around anyone?  What happens when you are home alone, you are out by yourself, or just alone in general?  If the person has focused on the happiness of those around them, is there anything really making them happy in these type of moments?  I believe that this is strong supporting evidence that it is best to focus on your personal goals than worry about the happiness of those around you.  That doesn't go to say as well that you should totally disregard the emotions of people around you though, you should always be a kind and caring person.

One's self happiness should be one of everyones top priority in life, and as long as something non harmful makes you happy, you should always pursuit it.  You may set a personal goal of beating that best time on a video game speed run, you may have the goal of losing weight, maybe you want to go on walks more and enjoy nature.  Using one of these as an example, let's think we have a person who we live with that is extremely needy that doesn't enjoy going out on a walk and you do.  If you focused on their happiness only and stayed inside, you would give up something that you wanted to do and a goal that makes you happy.  If this example was to be the case and the person in my example would be a partner, it would be best to talk to them about it and come to a compromise at the very least.  Maybe they could go on walks with you, maybe you could convince them to go to a park with you, or maybe you could even get a dog and go on walks with all three of you.  Adding steps towards achieving a goal is something everyone has to do from time to time.

Life isn't always sunshine and rainbows however, let's use an elderly parent as an example, or someone you need to care for.  In times like this, you may need to temporiarly delay a personal goal to help them, but you can always resume it later.  The key to this is to make sure that once you do what needs to be done, you are picking up your personal goal where you left off.  Too many people give up on it in a situation like this and end up becoming depressed later down the road.  Another option in this is let's say someone you need to care for is wheelchair bound, maybe you could combine your personal goal with them as a compromise.  This would allow you to keep an eye on them and care for them while doing what you love.  This could even allow both of you to bond with one another, creating even more happiness in your life.  You could even use a personal goal you want to achieve, depending on what type of goal it is, as a surprise trip for said person.  Be creative if your goal allows it, and always try to stay positive regardless of the situation.

If your own personal goal is to make others happy then that's different from your happiness coming from those around you.  Many comedians fall outside of this category sadly, while on stage they are making others laugh but off stage they are depressed.  A good example of this goal would be offering to help the homeless or even go to a nursing home to talk to the residents that are living there.  Another personal goal that could make someone happy is just being kinder and more positive, that way they can bring more light not only in their own life, but in the lives of other's as well.  This is where I feel the sweet spot in life is for this topic, it shows that you are not self centered and care about those around you, but at the same time you are doing something that makes you happy.

Staying dedicated to your own personal goals is important in life, even when times are hard, you need to keep going.  Too many people in today's world look back at their life and wish they would have done something differently, maybe they left things unsaid, or maybe they settled for something or someone.  People do this for different reasons, but primarily because they are putting other peoples happiness before their own happiness.  You are your own person, don't allow someone to influence or manipulate you into caring about their happiness while disregarding yours.  Take it from someone who lived a large portion of their life focused on the happiness of others and do what makes you happy.  If that happiness was to come from volunteering or caring for someone, then so be it, but always stay focused on you.
