Perception is everything.  No, it truly is.  Think about what shapes our world – the senses collect information about our surroundings and our experiences and use our understanding and previous experience to organize and label that information and everything we interpret. 

Colors, smells, and shapes have certain labels and positions in our minds. They're linked to moods, emotions, attitudes and culture. Through the use of triggers such as these, subconcious feelings, memories and perceptions about ourselves, others, and the world around us can be exploited for various purposes.  Smells are piped through stores to increase the liklihood of purchasing certain items.  For example, the smell of freshly baked bread will increase a person's hunger and desire to linger in a grocery store and make them spend more money.  The smell of cinnamon tends to calm people and make them more open to suggestion. The color red increases hunger and desire which is useful for advertising, sexual appeal, and appetite; Red is a primal and vital color which has one of the greatest uses in influence in human society and culture.  

Many effective triggers exist which can exert influence on the human mind and take advantage of our brains' organization and labeling of information as relevant, important, or critical.  By acting upon those facets of consciousness, outcomes can be guided and influenced - sometimes for good, other times for bad.

Think about the way news is provided.  A set of facts is gathered and arranged in a way to best speak to an audience and communicate principals, opinions and information with a set intention of eliciting a desired response.  Usually, it is to further an agenda of some kind - political or otherwise.  By focusing on emotion and psychological triggers similar to those I referenced earlier, the audience is guided down an intended path.

There are safeguards to being influenced, however, and not all attempts are successful with all audiences.  For highly educated minds and personalities, the liklihood of beings easily influenced is much lower due to the broader knowledge and understanding that information is filtered through and processed.  In fact, ignorance may very well represent the greatest weakness when it comes to being influenced by others.  By gaining experience and understanding about yourself, others, and the world around you, your innate guards against harmful suggestions are dramatically strengthened and you are more resistant to unwanted change.

The key to all things is to be open, aware, and to always remain skeptical. By following these three guidelines, we can all maximize our experiences and maintain control over how we integrate and understand new things while being as true to ourselves as possible. There will always be many forces fighting to dominate your mind and sense of self, but you have the power to choose to be influenced or not.
