                       Advertisement play a major role in our day to day life. The content often becomes less valid as the outer coverings and the product presentation attracts people more. More the advertisement get displayed the more it influence the audience. The famous actor or model will give genuine reviews which makes it feel like it's a real product. The product is getting more value when it is presented in unique ways. Young generation is often getting attracted to the new technological advertisement and the mindblowing offers and discounts.
            
                        In todays world the product content become less important when its offered in greater offers. Product sale depends upon the promoting and offers given at time of sale. Claims of the product are also becoming less valid as the product is made more attractive. People often buy products just because their favourite star is hosting the advertisement. What we see frequently is becoming the truth now rather than what its actually is, for example some sports products may be advertised by movie star instead of a sports star and still people gets attracted and buy  the product because of their favourite movie star.

                         New generations often get attracted to new gadgets and products if the product is so attractive. The content of the product becomes less valid if its being presented by your idol. New technological and Scientifical defenitions are being given to products like face creams claiming it has anti-ageing properties and product will be marketed. Explanations are often being not logical and still its presented with 100% assurence from the famous people making the product most trustworthy. Other than television, social platforms are also used for paid promotions for certain products now.

                         In this present society as an individual its up to us to decide whether we should select a product based on the advertisement or its real content.We should not get swayed by any kind of attractions.
