The drive for success is present in everyone; from the corporate workspace to individual goals, there isn't an adult who doesn't dream about, let alone chase, success.

Everyone has their own ideas about how to achieve success. Based on their upbringing and experiences, an individual can go about their pursuit of success in many ways. Some people are driven by trying to "beat" others in similar quests, but the essence of success depends entirely on one's ability to cooperate with others to reach shared goals.

There are examples in history where individuals achieved success by working on their own. Perhaps inventors like Alexander Graham Bell worked diligently on their own to build their product. But even Bell needed someone to answer his telephone on the other end to know it worked. Ultimately, one cannot just work independently.

Cooperation allows for multiple voices to contribute to a project. Take television shows. They have a team of writers - not just one. They brainstorm stories and bounce ideas off each other, working together to arrive at the best ways to deliver a show. If putting out a fire is considered a "success", we know it takes a team of firemen to squelch all the flames at a location. In the corporate world, there are always committees working on projects; rarely is there one individual who is tasked to do it himself.

As noted in the firemen example above, there can be many definitions of success. It does not always have to mean fame or wealth. Even if it did, however, how often does one achieve thoses statuses without contributions from others? A-list actors need a talented director and even other good actors playing off of them in order for them to deliver a performance that boosts their career. Entrepreneurs need to be able to test their products on others, acquire materials from vendors or companies, and then sell the product to consumers. If no one buys it, there is no success! Cooperation in this regard means others have trusted you enough to contribute a sale.

Look at examples of success in your own life and ask yourself if you could have achieved what you did without some kind of cooperation from someone else. Maybe if you studied on your own and then passed the bar, you could say that you achieved success on your own, but at some point, you would have taken a class in law where a professor helped you, you may have read books written by others, or even shared some study time with a fellow classmate. Thus, even in circumstances where it appears that you can be successful on your own, you probably needed cooperation.

Some would argue that competition is more of a driving factor. After all, if you were in fact studying for the bar, maybe you were driven by trying to be better than a sibling or a friend. Competition can be a factor. But the success itself comes from the cooperation with others; there is no guarantee of success simply because you are in a competition.

Put simply, humans work better when working together. You need only look at how New Yorkers reacted to the September 11 crisis to see how working together can be so powerful. Perhaps there was no "success" in coming together after a disaster of that magnitude, but it does show how teamwork can lead to great things.

The next time you aspire to be successful in something, think about how many people you need to cooperate with in order to achieve that goal. Whether directly or indirectly, cooperation is always key to achieving something at a high level.



