We are asked to decide whether happiness comes from focusing on personal goals or on the happiness of others.  Of course, we are not offered definitions of goals or the happiness of others or for that matter happiness itself, thus producing a thoroughly ambiguous subject which has no answer and which is therefore suitable for a debate topic, since we can come up with a substantial number of permutations depending on our own experience and moral or spiritual values.

What, after all do we mean by "happiness"? Pleasure? Joy? Satisfaction? Contentment? Orgasm?  Nearness to God (however one defines that concept)?  And how do we rate the happiness of others?  As a child, we might try to please our parents, or later on a lover or spouse. Perhaps we try to please a boss and climb in the ranks of our company or government department. Maybe we try to satisfy our customers/clients/patients/students.  Or if we think of ourselves as important we might see it as our duty to improve the world in some way, such as engaging in politics or a protest movement, or sacrificing ourselves to work in some charitable cause.  And in any of these circumstances, how do we know that we are actually producing happiness in others?

If we don't know that we are happy, then how can we know that others are happy?  We need first to have experienced a concept of happiness ourselves before we can apply that concept to others and have empathy with them.  If we feel miserable and have never felt good then it does not help to say that our misery is improving the lives of other people and we should be happy with that. In fact, a psychiatrist might use such concepts as co-dependence to describe this type of behavior, for instance allowing abuse by a spouse because that is what one is supposed to suffer in marriage.  On a political sense we might question the idea of submission to others' will as a form of religious or political tyranny.  Can a slave be happy?  If you are a soldier sent to die for a cause you don't believe in, can you be happy that you are obeying your rulers?

Our goals may not be important goals to anyone else but if we choose our goals and strive to achieve them then at least we have had the happiness of being able to make a choice. If we work towards our goals then we can have the happiness of actually putting in the efforts, and the happiness of achievement, which of course are not always the same thing.  If we are training for a marathon, for example, we can take pleasure just in our daily run, and we can also take pleasure in completing the marathon.  If we are a student, we are hopefully enjoying at least some part of our studies, or if we are tired or stressed we can look forward to the achievement of a goal in the form of a degree.  We might be miserable on a diet but losing weight will be worth our effort.  

It might be considered that our own happiness is a selfish goal.  Shouldn't we be doing something for the world? But does the world really want us to do something for it, or wouldn't most people be happier achieving their own personal goals?  Why should we all be Mother Teresa? and for that matter, quite a few people have criticized Mother Teresa for forcing her views on Indians.  Are we really making others happy or just taking pleasure in ordering them around?  If we sacrifice ourselves for our families will they really be happier or feel guilty? If we sacrifice ourselves for our employers will they even notice? There was a news story recently about a fast food employee who didn't take a day off work in 27 years. He was rewarded with some candy and a movie ticket.  Was it worth it?  We have all spent the last couple of years sacrificing ourselves supposedly to stop Covid. Was that worth it? Are we even allowed to ask that question?

We can never know if what we are doing for others is right or not, or if we are making them happy or not. All we can judge is our own happiness. 




