     Materialism is indeed criticized and although I myself don't have any experience viewing the materialism of my country, the United States of America, through the eyes of someone from another country, a country which sees itself and its citizens, or is seen by its citizens, as being any less materialistic than American citizens (particularly citizens who were born in the US, and whose parents and grandparents were born in the US), I believe that the USA and its people are viewed by other countries as being the most materialistic country on the planet.  
     So, should a materialistic people be criticized for their wants (or, in some cases, their actual needs)?  Why, or why not?  On the basis of logic alone, why does it make sense or seem acceptable to criticize a person or people, or an entire region or country, because those people choose to purchase and own things that other people choose not to?  Is it "sinful" to buy a shiny and expensive new car, with money that you have worked for and saved and earmarked for something that you want, when an old and broken car might carry you to the same destination for far cheaper?  Is it wrong to want to live in a new and spacious two-story brick home with a garage and a fireplace and maybe a swimming pool in the huge backyard when a mud hut and a dirt floor would accomodate you, for far cheaper?  Or how about wearing a fifty-thousand-dollar Rolex on your wrist, when five o'clock is exactly the same five o'clock when it's shown on a plastic wristwatch that was purchased at the local Dollar General?  Is that wrong?  Do any of those decisions warrant being seen as some kind of greedy and perhaps inhuman glutton by another, more "virtuous" consumer who comes from another place?
     From a place of logic and reason, materialism (or at least the ability to "be" more materialistic) is, quite simply, progress in motion.  It is, in fact, its own form of human evolution--Our ancestors, having less, had less.  We, having the ability to have more, have more.  We have moved past the time when having the bare minimum to survive was enough.  We have improved.  We know more.  We have devoloped the keen ability to "want more", and we have developed the ability, through skill or hard work or dedication--or perhaps even through signing our names on a credit application--to get more.  We understand that although we could make do by sleeping on the floor of a shotgun shack in the forest and walking to work in the morning, it would just be so much better, or nicer, or EFFICIENT, to sleep sweetly on a plush mattress in the huge master bedroom of a two or --SINNER!!!  Even THREE!!!--bedroom brick home in the suburbs and drive a huge, heavy and sleek SUV, maybe one where we splurged even further for the heated leather seats so our ass will be at just the right and toasty warmth on those cold winter days.  Logically, and truthfully, we have improved ourselves to the point where we can improve our own lives by buying more things, better things, things that make us more comfortable, or safer, or just happier. That is progress.  We have forced our own evolution, and the more we buy, the further we can evolve.  

