Human beings are ultimately selfish creatures looking to increase their pleasure. This is biologically ingrained as our brains are wired to produce neurotransmitters and hormones that stimuate our pleasure centers. One might find it paradoxical that altruistic actions are underlying selfish, but I will argue that there is no such thing as selflessness or altruism. Therefore, happiness comes from achieving selfish goals and unhappiness comes from having to be a part of helping another person achieve their goals. 

Any normal human being will have a number of goals they set for himself or herself. This could be education, career goals, financial goals, relationship goals or what have you. For example, if one endeavors to get a PhD and accomplishes it, then one should should be happy. It really depends on the situation. If the reason is personally beneficial (either for one's own education edification or for obtaining a promotion) then happiness will surely come. However, if getting a PhD comes form pressure from familar or even from work and is not wanted to the part of the indvidual, then unhappiness will surely follow because the task is burden to ones own goals. 

My reader might now thing that I have contradicted myself, because at the beginning of this essay I wrote that altruism is ultimately selfish. If one donates to a charity or does an act of goodwill, the pleasure associated with is reason even to engage it in regardless of the benefit it brings to the recipient. An example of altruism causing unhappiness would be if the act of charity was forced or used for keeping up appearances. Just thing if one is at the supermarket and the cashier asks the dreaded 'Would you like to donate a dollar to [fill in the blank]?'. I venture a guess that my readers know that feeling of dread of being put on the spot and most of the time simply accept to avoid being judged as uncharitable. The act of giving and the act of not giving both lead to shame or psychological distress. Therefore, all acts of altruism will not lead to happiness, only self-motivated or initiated acts of altruism will do.

In sum, happiness is comes from completely selfish motives. Therefore, personal goals comes before the happiness of others. If the happiness of others is a consequent of achieving a personal goal, then it is just that: a consequent.  


