     In the current year of 2022, there are many controversial issues debated within our society. While we are debating some newer issues we now find ourselves facing, such as Covid-19, there is one issue that seems to have been debated since the beginning of time. Materialism. How much stuff do we really need?

     Let's be honest. Many of us have too much stuff. We spend money on things we don't need all the time. Where to we draw the line between needs and wants? I don't believe there is a simple answer to that question, simply because we all have different needs as indivduals. At the end of the day, I think it's fair to say that we all need things, and we all want things. As a society that has experienced so many losses in so many ways, we need things to make up for some of that so no, I do not believe we have too much.

     There are many people both in our society and globally who go without each and every day. Homelessness is a major problem, but yet some would argue that people who buy extravagant homes are materialistic. Who are we to say what each family needs? We don't all need a swimming pool, but what about the family with the disabled child who benefits from the therapy provided within that pool? Or the family who has 5 children that buys a 6 bedroom home? This would then be considered a need in my opinion.  Let's also take into account that many people benefit emotionally from allowing themselves "rewards" for a job well done. If buying yourself an expensive pair of shoes gives you the motivation to get out of bed and go to work each day in order to provide for your family, I do not see the harm in it.  Some would argue that all of the "unecessary" purchases we are making are bad for us as a society in general, and creates a sense of greed among us. What about the many jobs created that are associated with these products? I think it would be fair to say that those who work in the factories that manufacture luxury cars, clothes, and other products are happy that people are buying them and keeping them in a job. While I, myself cannot afford such items, I am glad that I am able to pay my bills and feed my family because other people are able to make the "excessive" purchases. My job depends on it.

     So, should modern society be critcized for being materialistic?  I firmly believe the answer is "no". While we are a long way from solving poverty, people buying less things in not the answer. Just the opposite. It helps our economy and makes us feel better in general. It's a win-win. Keep shopping, people.
