In modern Western society, materialism is rampant.  From the time we are born, we are taught to buy and consume products and services, until we can't afford to do so any more.  Then we go into debt just so we can continue to consume, usually on things we don't really need.  We spend a large chunk of our adult lives working jobs to earn money, simply to turn around and use that money to buy things that will be consumed in some way.  Some people are critical of this consumerism mentality, and others just accept it.  At it's core, materialism is harmful and should be avoided whenever possible.

Imagine how much happier your life would be if you didn't have to work 40+ years during the prime of your life, just to afford that new shiny car or smartphone.  You could spend your time doing things that make you joyful and feel more fulfilled as a human being.  You could spend time on hobbies that you actually enjoy, rather than the drudgery of the nine-to-five at the office, where you really don't want to be anyway.  You could spend time volunteering and making the world a better place for everyone.

In Eastern societies, the work-life balance is much better, because they are not nearly so consumer-driven.  Because these people work less, they have more free time to enjoy themselves.  They enjoy less stress by avoiding the rat race, leading to happier and healthier lives.  Moreover, they understand better than Westerners, that posessions do not bring happiness.  If anything, the more possessions you accumulate, the unhappier you tend to be. 

Although a certain amount of consumerism is necessary, such as obtaining food to eat to keep oneself alive, excessive consumtion and materialism are poison to modern society.  Everyone must do their part to recognize their own materialistic leanings.  We all must do what we can to curb those impulses; earning and spending more and more on things that don't even matter.  Just remember:  nobody lives forever, and you can't take it with you.


