Materialism, a preoccupation with getting more and more things and spending more and more money, is an area of life that is often criticized. Despite the criticism, it is something that is pervasive in modern society and which is sought out as a means of achieving happiness and fulfillment. However, it seems that the majority of people have some level of materialism, which begs the question of whether or not the criticism is fair or whether it should just be an accepted part of modern society? 

As a general rule, materialism and society's obsession with "stuff" should indeed be criticized, or at least closely analyzed. As the saying goes, "Money can't buy happiness." When people obsess over how much they have, how much money they make, and whether they can buy the latest and greatest new items, they are putting a lot of stress on themselves. Additionally, the time spent trying to achieve those goals can result in a life not spent investing in the things that really matter, such as pursuing meaningful hobbies, relationships, and family. 

If one looks at the way this generation lives as compared to previous generations, it is evident that the affluence and plenty that is prevalent in our society has not increased the overall happiness of its members. Mental illness, depression, anxiety, and suicide are all present at higher levels than ever before. Of course, there may be many contributing factors towards that, but one major distinction between this generation and previous generations is the current generations "hussle" and general frenzy to earn more money and live a lavish lifestyle. In previous generations, many individuals worked hard, but they worked to provide necessities, not luxuries. In addition, many homes had only one working parent and one stay-at-home parent. Now, even if one parent would like to stay home, they cannot make ends meet on on salary. Obviously, extreme inflation plays into that, but also, there is a lifestyle to maintain that cannot be maintained on a single income. In addition, there is a satisfaction that comes from working hard to meet legitimate needs. Knowing you have put food on the table for your family is (or should be) much more satisfying than knowing you've purchased the latest designer handbag. 

In recent years, there has been a trend towards minimalism. People who have homes full to the brim of stuff they do not want, do not need, and do not like generally feel overwhelmed by it all. A quick YouTube search will bring you hundreds of videos of people who have done massive declutters in their homes and their lives. The anecdotal evidence present is overwhelming. Almost everyone who minimizes their material posessions is happier for having done so, and they report having more time to spend on what really matters to them. They also report more financial security and less stress. Some have even been able to pay off thousands of dollars in debt, just by decreasing their consumption and/or selling some of the good they have accummulated. 

There are obviously those who still value material possessions over anything else, and there are many reasons that they may cite as the cause for that. For one, it does take money and materials to "keep up with the Joneses". If that is someone's primary goal, then a trend towards materialism is necessary. However, that level of comparison is seldom healthy, and if someone is materialistic because they want to compete with their peers, that is a problem in and of itself. There are others who get a drug-like rush out of purchases. Almost everyone can understand the excitement of coming home to find a long-awaited package on their steps, and "shopping is cheaper than therapy" can often be an excuse to legitimize rash and excessive purchases. That rationale is akin to putting a bandaid over a bullet hole. While shopping may be cheaper than therapy, it is not going to solve the underlying problem.

All in all, the benefits of materialism, if they can even be called benefits, are few. While not everyone necessarily needs to embrace a full-blown life of minimalism, it would certainly be beneficial for the majority of people to be more aware of their spending habits. It would also be good for them to explore why they want more and more material posessions and what hole they are trying to fill with them. 
