Happiness although it may be elusive to some, is within every single one of us. As a matter of fact I am convinced that true happiness comes from within. We all can achieve happiness if we desire it. 

Too many people spend their life trying to make others happy. They long for happiness themselves yet they never seem to be satisfied. It's as if a part of them is left unfulfilled. They are left desiring more. The truth of the matter is that anyone who has ever felt like this can get happiness for themselves. By focusing on their growth and their own personal goals they can lead a very happy and fulfilled life. 

One of the reasons I make this argument is you have to have a sense of drive and purpose. You need a reason to get out of bed every morning and go forward every day. There is real happiness that is derived by setting and achieving goals. 

Secondly once you have that sense of purpose you will be motivated to continue to push the boundaries of what you thought you were capable of. This will enable you to go further and expand your growth, bringing you even more joy in the process. 

The last point I want to make here is that when you decide to focus on your goals and your dreams you are telling yourself that you can do something. That alone is powerful. Negativity destroys so much happiness for so many people. They feel like they aren't good enough or can't so they don't even try. There is real power in positive thinking. 

Some might say that you can only attain happiness if you focus on doing something to make others happy. There may be some truth in getting satisfaction in helping others and that making you happy. However the idea that you spend all your energy on other people and that's somehow supposed to bring you happiness is just not correct. Beacause if you do that in the process of helping everyone else achieve their wishes and dreams yours are just sitting on standby. You don't want to be the person who looks back on their life with regret for all of the things you wish you did but didn't. 

In Conclusion, focus on yourself and your own goals. That is the key to true inner happiness. Don't worry about what others think. Don't fall victim to the negative thinking of others. Just because someone says you cannot do something doesn't make it so. Only concern youself only with your own progress and the journey of getting to where it is that you are going. Once you do that true happiness will find you. 
