     Wars have been fought between countries over the concepts of independence.  Many more battles have been fought, on micro and macro levels, over commodities and property.  These conflicts result in incalculable trama and stress. Materialism ican be a destructive force. Yet, there are some who would argue that the pursuit of "things" are a necesssary evil - a "vital source of meaning and happiness".  I would posit that those who believe meaning and happiness come from the acquisition of assets are incredibly short-sighted.

    Our planet recently hit a population of eight billion humans!  Our earth has a finite number of resourses.   As those resources are depleted and population increases, the quest to obtain "more" unquivocably results in a loss of resources for others.  In the United States, the top one percent of income holders (the wealthy), hold a disproportionate amount of asssets.  The disparity became even more evident during the Covid19 pandemic when CNBC reported that the top 1% gained $6.5 Trillion during 2021.  While most American families were facing unprecedented financial hardships and struggling to provide homes, food, and care for their families, the rich were getting richer.  This is an unsustainable model.  

    If materialism, or the obtainment of goods, could provide happiness and meaning, then we should see a inverse relationship in the number of wealthy people who deal with depression, suicide, and other negative behaviors.  Sadly, dysfunction amongst the wealthiest families is legendary!  It seems that being financially stable does not equate to mentally stable.  The Barrymores, the Hammers, the Hearsts, and the Getty's have been plagued with drug scandals, pedophile rings, sadism, and kidnappings.  Michael Jackson, arguably one of the highest earning musicians in the world, was so famously depressed and troubled that he died in the pursuit of sleep...not happiness.  He died because all of the material objects in the world couldn't rival the body's need for rest.  The lengths to which he went to seek that rest - chiefly, employing a doctor to pump him full of propofol every night- killed him. 

    In the end, happiness and meaning come from the countless, non-monetary transactions between human beings.  People don't save their money when the house  burns down- they grab their children, pets, photos, and other monetarily insignificant items.  Happiness and meaning come from the legacy we leave and the connections we create.   Thus, while the pursuit of material goods can be motivational, there is no guarantee that said quest will result in a positive outcome.  It is far more satisfying to find meaning in the things we have and strive to provide necessities and stabilty.  
