It can be said that a rising tide raises all ships, and I believe this is also the case in any argument that addresses the efficiency of cooperation versus competition. While I do believe there is a place for competition, and that some amount is healthy and beneficial -- I also believe that cooperation must supercede competition in the grander scheme of any project.

A certain type of friendly competition should be encouraged to some degree within a given group, because such an approach would appeals to each idividual's ego -- encouraging them to strive for being the best version of themselves, and to contribute thusly to the group as a whole. Each individual thinks differently and may be able to solve probems or approach tasks in innovative ways that other members of their group may not have seen at first. 

Friendly competition must always be over-arched by a grander sense of cooperation, however. Any progress made by an individual should be openly shared with the group. The individual innovator should be compensated fairly for his or her contributions, but if that individual were to break off from the group and keep any relevant innovations for themselves, I believe it would be a detriment to the progress of the collective. Freely exchanging information and new ways of doing things would allow the other members of the group to potentially innovate in new ways, just as the hypothetical first innovator had done. Futhermore, if there is always an underlying sense of cooperativeness, people will be less likely to shy away from taking potentialyl very profitable risks, safe in the knowledge that if they should fail -- the rest of the group will assist in picking them up and getting them back onto their feet, so that they may continue to contribute to the group as a whole.

Although competition will allow for more rapid innovation and progress, at the end of the day it is cooperation that will propel everyone forward more effectively. The thoughts and actions of the individual are extremely important, but are logically superceded by a cooperative mindset for the greater good. In conclusion, I believe that competition is inevitable, but it should take place beneath the umbrella of cooperation, overall. Cooperation allows for the success of the many, but does not necessarily deny success to those who have contributed the most -- so long as the project in question is managed fairly and effectively.
