People enjoy seeing a smile on another person's face.
I believe that people are more likely to be happy by focusing on the happiness of others, than focusing their personal goals. I say this is the case because, people are social creatures who prefer interacting with others. Even so called loners have moments of wanting interactions and doing things for people. I think most people want to see other people happy and to live in a peaceful world. So an act of kindness can go a long way. People also make it a mission and a goal to improve society, to do the work of God, and to make the world a better place in their eyes (for better or worse).  Helping others can also make us happy. Things like donating to charity, voluntary work, small random acts, performing for others, entertaining others, assisting, and taking care of others are examples of focusing on the happiness of others. Happiness is a contagious thing so making others happy makes us happy.

In terms of personal goals, we do feel a sense of accomplishment and even happines when completing personal gaols. Though, I heard many times people still become sad, depressed, or unfuilled after they complete their personal goals. I feel like focusing on personal goals will only make you happy in the short term. In "red pill" spaces and other spaces focusing on yourself and your personal goals is the main goal to make you happy, fullfilled, less needy of others, and less distracted. Ironically, you might still do these personal goals looking for other's approval and it does not guarentee happiness or sucess either.

Focusing on personal goals and on the happiness of others can go hand to hand. For one thing the personal goal of making others happy would be a case. Our own personal goals can directly or indirectly can make people happy. Overall I believe the only difference between personal goals and focusing on the happiness of others is intention. Focusing on your own personal goals to make yourself happy and fullfilled ignoring the results of how other people feel or think about it, or trying your best to make others happy. Are you doing this for yourself or are you  doing this gor other people?
