     What you see is not always what you get.  In today's world, with the rise of social media and with the popularity of "catfishing", appearances are often more important than reality.  In a world where you can make a whole career from your appearance, and be labeled an "influencer", what incentive is there to 'keep it real'?  The imagines that we consume have a profound impact on how we view and construct our own reality.
     For some inexplicable reason that may have to do with a certain aesthetic, or even how they look in pictures or on camera, having big lips became a huge movement.  As a result, women all over the world began getting lip injections and lip enhancements.  This phenomenon has also run parallel to the BBL also known as the Brazilian Butt Lift.  This trend began because some the top trending images online included celebrities and people who had a big butt, and other people who had no butt wanted a large tukus too.  This made people run to plastic surgery and now most "influencers" and celebrities who have popular images have enhanced lips as well as enhanced buttocks.  This has had an impact on people and has made having these characteristics more important than they really are.  The constant consumption of images of people with big lips and big butts has made an increasing number of people construct their own reality by visiting a plastic surgeon and getting surgeries done to reflect these images.
     In conclusion, "catfishing" or looking a certain way online and another way in real, became a very common phenomena.  People all over the world would look influencer perfect in their photos, but when you met them in real life they would look like an episode of "Botched".  People are relying on pictures of themselves to create an impression on people that they are attractive.  This is especially prevelant in the "influencer" realm and in certain areas of the United States.  These images can be damaging to a younger audience because they can not discern between fantasy and reality.  Kids are not as likely to spot some Injuviderm lip holes or a breast enhancement scar.  For this reason, images can be very impactful and cause someone to view reality in a way that may not actually be legit. 
***Disclaimer: I apologize, I did not mean to leave this writing page- I was trying to view the time to see how many minutes I had left (I did not see the minute counter up there).  Please do not penalize me in any way.  I really did try my best to produce a pretty solid argumentative essay.  Peace and Love.
          
