Go into your house and walk around for a while. If you live in a first world country, there is a good chance that after walking around you will have bumped into a plethora of items you purchased, likely recently, and a lot of them you probably haven't used in a while. Even worse yet would be to take a walk around the garage of the average american. It is a constant to drive around neighborhoods and see open garages with piles and piles of unused items collecting dust in boxes or in great clutters, leading to the phenomenon we call garage sales or yard sales. All of this clutter stems from a thing called materialism that has been brought about by industry and the ease of shopping nowadays. To many people, especially those in poorer countries, our materialism is a sign of greed and lack of empathy to others but ourselves, but should we be critisized for our materialism? Is it really a sign or greed or of lack of empathy? I think that modern society should be critizised for its materialism. Materialism  leads people to putting money and owning the best of everything over their own happiness, and it leads to creating more and more pollution and destruction for our own planet in the pursuit of owning more stuff.

A lot of people would rather have a nice car or a nice house instead of having good health. Money and consumer products that they can show off are what give them meaning. People I am surrounded by work 2 or even 3 jobs just to maintain a lifestyle that exudes luxury, even though they could easily survive on one job. This isn't to say that owning nice things or buying them once in a while is bad. Money isn't bad either. It is necessary to survive in our society and I challenge anyone to be happy without money or  without being able to purchase things. It would be difficult in this day and age, especially since you normally need money to buy food and attain the necessary things to live! But still, giving up your health in order to have the newest iphone, or to live in a house you normall wouldn't afford is foolish and a prime example of materialism. Social media influencers are a great example of the plague of materialism, and as are celebrities. So many of them addicted to drugs or substances, despite being so rich and having the best of everything. Many of them buy and buy in order to numb themselves, but their money and items do not bring them happiness. Many of these famous people sacrifice the ability to live happy just to have their money and fame. And then normal people with low resources and money give up their own health and life to emulate them, despite not being able to afford it, even going as far as to getting into endless debt just to seem like they are wealthy or like they own expensive things.

Materialism is also a plague on our planet that affects the climate and the environment. As a result of Materialism, there needs to be an industry that pushes everything behind it. Corporations churn out products on the assembly line to sell to people of first world countries, putting people of poorer countries in peril. Many factories of products lie overseas in poor areas where people work for dollars or even pennies per day to create the things we buy. A lot of those factories and production centers pull resources from nature and expel harmful chemicals and gasses into the air or waters. Many factories dump residue and trash from their production into nature and pollute. Even the cars we use are a form of materialism, as people use their cars and vehicles for everything, including leisure, and the gass guzzling vehicles pump carbons into the air. The great freighters that bring items produced around the world burn tons of fossil fules, further polluting the air all to make their corporations money and in the name of materialism.

The materialistic nature of modern society deserves to be critisized. It is something that every human living in first world countries needs to be aware of and it is a problem that needs to be addressed. While I believe that some materialism is not bad, since it moves money and can create jobs, I think that we need to be conscious of its negative effects and of the ways humanity is paying for its materialism. We pay with our health, with our happiness, and even with our environment. It is sad and distressing, but I believe in the future generations and that with a strong effort, we will be able to curb our addiction to "stuff" and to luxury and put more important things at the forefront of our priorities. Like I said before. I do not think materialism is completely bad, but it is reaching levels where it is affecting our lives and our world. Our lives should be dedicated to experiences and to providing benefit to others and our world, and less to our wallets and our  materialistic items.
