These days, appearences are everything. Imagine being a young individual that is scrolling through social media. After each scroll, there is back to back advertisements of individuals with clear skin or other people with a "perfect body," according to society. This leaves the lingering thought in individuals, "Why can't I look like them?" It has been evident within the upcoming generations that utlize social media that images and impressions do, in fact, have too much of an effect on people - leading to poor mental health and body dysmorphia especially. 

The way that images and impressions have too much of an effect is present in the mental health related problems it causes in individuals. Typically, these advertisements show celebrities or, at the least, attractive individuals, having lavish lifestyles and being in beautiful settings. For the average person, especially since COVID, this can cause depressive episodes or other relevant moods/feelings. Due to society boiling everything down to appearences, this lessens the ability to grasp reality and desensitizes the general public to anything beyond appearences. Not only can depression, poor self esteem, and other mental health problems occur, but this then leads into something that many people can unfortunately relate too in this time period - body dysmorphia. 

Body dysmorphia is an increasing problem amongst the younger generations to come. This is due to the fact that young people are constantly exposed to unrealistic body standards. Companies use individuals that have these unrealistic body standards, for example Kim Kardashian, to make people crave having a figure such as that person would in the advertisement. The quality of products may not matter to an individual; If it can make one change their appearence ultimately then this does create a form of body dysmorphia. Due to these images and impressions that are constantly exposed to the public, people are consistently micromanaging every single thing about their body. Nothing about the human body is natural or beautiful anymore due to impact that these images and impressions have had on people. There has been a consistent uprising in young indiviuals experiencing body dysmorphia, and this mindset will only continue to grow the more that these expectations from public figures are shoved in peoples faces everyday through a screen. 

Images and impressions that are presented through media absolutely leaves an impact on people. Due to the consistent unrealisitc standards shoved in everyones faces through social media, this leads to many issues present in the general public. One issue that these images and impressions brings are poor mental health, such as self esteem and depression. Another issue that is brought to the table is body dysmorphia due to unrealisitic body standards always seen in media. Therefore, due to these issues that arise from desensitation to reality, appearences in the media not only have an effect on the public, but it is a largely negative effect that is presented on society as a whole. 



