Visual appealing images and eye-catching colors are used as a powerful tool for many different advertisement and entertainment companies. Many of these advertising firms or companies are competing for our money and our attention. Pursuading consumers to give their product, show, or agenda a chance is their main goal. Sometimes getting people to consume or buy their product outranks the quality of the product itself.

One can find examples of this type of advertising almost anywhere they look. Often these advertisements have nothing to do with the product itself. An example of this could be a super bowl ad that is eye-catching or entertaining but has nothing to do with the actual product itself. Sometimes companies will hire famous celebrities or attractive people to pursuade consumers with sex appeal. In some cases the product is not even mentioned or demonstrated in these ads. 

A second example I can think of that uses eye catching advertising would be large streaming platforms. These streaming platforms are competing for eye balls and subscriptions. Often times the home screen uses bright or intriguing photos to draw the consumer in. Trailers and clips are ment to draw an individual in to the show in an extremely short amount of time.

To this point my viewpoints of this type of advertising has been largely skeptical with an underlying negative connotation. Some people would argue that this type of advertising embraces creativity and healthy competition in the market. Some could argue that this will cause companies to continuously grow and evolve to hold a costumer group or market. One could argue that this produces better or new products and is essential for a capitalist society. 

Overall, the viewpoints mentioned above will have thier pros and cons. Whether we like it or not this type of advertising is not going anywhere. Whether someone is lobbying for your votes, your dollars, or your time they will invest whatever types of resources they need to in order to achieve this. Advertising is not going anywhere anytime soon and we may have only seen the tip of the iceburg in this case  
