Cooperation is very important for long lasting accomplishments. Without cooperation, an individual is only as good as themself.  Some people might think that competition makes for better ideas at work. Or they may say that competition helps you learn new skills.  However, if one cooperates, they are as good as the whole.  Cooperation can lead to high success, high esteem, and long lasting success.

Cooperation with another person or a group of people is the fastest way to success. When you cooperate, you get to share the skills of the others as well as share your skills. More people working one one task can make it faster and work better. When you compete against one a nother, you only have your skills. You will have to learn all the things by yourself. You will not have help. This will make every thing take longer.

Cooperation with people gives every one more esteem. It can make you feel good when you work with a nother person. Working together makes you feel good and better than working a lone. A team mate will help you work faster and better. This will make your esteem feel better. It might make you feel good if you win a competition. But you also feel a little bad for the winning. You might feel good if you are competitive.  It will not last as long as how good you feel when you cooperate. And others might think badly of you if you win and they lose. 

Cooperations also make for long lasting success.  When others find out by working with us that we have skills, they will tell otthers. This will help you get promotion later. This might also mean that your success will be greater.  If you compete with someone, you do not get this. You get only that moment of happiness.  Then no one will speak highly of your skill. 

It is important to cooperate.  It helps you have more success, long lasting success, and high esteems.  Over all, you will feel happiness when you cooperate.  Your work will last a long time when you cooperate. You do not get this when you compete. So, please in future, cooperate. 
