I personally believe that people can achieve more success by cooperation.  The world is a hard place and people need the skills and talents of others to maximize their own gifts and skills.  If people only did things on their own they would never be able to do much of anything because of their own weaknesses and their own strengths wouldn't be able to help other people out.
Cooperation helps magnify individual strengths because people can play ideas off each other which helps foster innovation.  Cooperation helps people be able to trust each other and can make a more positive environment which is much better than having a negative one.  This allows ideas to flow more freely and people to be more successful at their profession. A positive environment allows people to fully express their own ideas which brings more success to more people. 
Competition makes people too cutthroat and suspicious of each other's motives which I believe can stifle creativity.  If people are constanly worried about the backstabbing nature of an environment that is only focused on competition then creativity and success will suffer.  Having a profession and doing a good job is hard enough but if you don't have to worry about people breathing down your neck all of the time you can perform better.  A suspicious enviornment doesn't allow for people to want to share ideas because of the fear of their ideas will be stolen or used by others. 
Its true that competition can help some people achieve more individual success.  If people are supremely talented then competition can help these people rise to the top and become individually successful.  Competition can bring out the best of the top talent because they are always worried about somebody coming along that will be better than them which would maybe knock them off of the top spot.  Competition makes these people think they must perform at their best which would help them achieve success.  
In conclusion, I personally believe that people achieve more success by cooperation.  People have enough problems and things to worry about in their lives without having to worry about people putting them in the dirt with too much competition.  Cooperation brings out the best in most people and that's why I think that it allows people to achieve more success than competition does. 
