How do you define happiness?  I would personally say that I define happiness as a feeling of joy and that many different factors could bring about this feeling.  Some say that there are only two ways to find happiness, and that's either through achieving their own personal goals in life, or living vicariously through other's happiness.  So I would say that that makes 2 distinctive types of people:  1.) the self centered/ambitious type,  2.) the guilty ones.  Could there not be more to happiness than that? Both of these categories that has everyone lumped into one or the other, neither makes me have joy/raptous/radiation of happiness.  
I, myself do find some sense of fulfilment from helping others.  I was a drug addict for many, many, years.  when i was finally able to get and stay clean (just celebrated 10 years!) I started to go to NA meetings.  One of the first things that stuck with me was that NA is a selfish program. The only way an addict can stay clean is by giving what he has to others.  Like a sponsor isn't there b/c of you, b/c you needed help, they are there b/c by helping that that addict it's actually helping them more. only keep what you have by giving it away.  I guess you either understand that or you can't. But I personally found that when i helped others it gave me a sense of purpose, a direction, a meaning to my life.  So i guess if you wanted to use the easiest, broadest term you can think of, then yes, i was happy about that.
Are people who focus on their personal goals "happy", or happier than other people?  probably the majority of them are.  I can only speak about my own exsperience. i forgot what happyness was. i was an active user for 18 years.  All i knew 0r remembered was pain, desperation, agony,  but not happiness.  The day i finally stopped using was in part b/c i didn't want to be sad any more.  I figured there had to be something better, and i found out how life could be if you work hard, make good decisions, and have ambitions and goals. 
some people will find happiness where others find nothing but sorry.  Everyone is different, so different strokes for different folks! Be happy as much as you can, life is too short not to be enjoying yourself.  If you dont find happiness one way, try another.  there is no right or wrong ways to go about making your life full of happiness.  Just get up off that couch and make it happen
