People have many problems in their life as they are part of it, even if we avoid it will emerge in anyways. We can't avoid certain situations which is meant to be happen in our life even though we are not ready for it. That are failures. Failure can make us even stronger than what we are before. If we seek success, definitely we should overcome some circumtances. "Failure are the stepping stone to success". If we fail more, the more we get stronger. Dreaming about our goal and dedicatedly working on it helps us to improve our mission of improving our achievement. Each of everyone has goal in their life, whatever it is, we work hard, some times hardwork for it. 
Sometimes we seem to loss our happiness in order to achieve our goal. we need to sacrifice our loved ones and even parents, partners and friends, but our focus on what we doing should not change. Once you achieve what you want then all the other things will come in automatically. Having greater dreams require higher responsibilities and focus that is the key for success. Having everything in our life is not an achievement, having what we want in our life is the greatest achievement and that is the goal of life. Avoiding negative thoughts, believeing in yourself make you strong and good to have success. Pain is the part of it, you may lose some close people or hurt them but at the end everything you have done is the cure for that. Find your way as soon as possible at the early stage you will have the strongest will power to see our vision and go through it.
After gettting the success you have, please try to recall the people who are with you at hard times and thank them for being with you at all time. Being grateful will never make us degarde from other. Kindness is the key after being a successful person. Personal goals are even more important then the happiness of others since if you are being a right person, the right one will always stay with you at hard times. They will be happy for your success, your success is theirs, they feels like that. If someone doesn't feels like that then they are not the one who really care  about your goals. Real ones are always the goos ones, they will understand our motto and stay with us at both success and failure. At the end, goals and happiness equals, the same both cannot exist if one dies. So try to balance it and balance your life.
