Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. The prompt defines materialism as acquiring posessions and spending money. By this definition, it applies to the way we live and survive. Therefore, criticizing modern society for being materialistic is comparable to criticizing how our ancestors adapted and survived for centuries.

Modern society is built on a materialistic culture. The fact that we have jobs, social hierarchies, global economies that rely on each other, etc. emphasizes the need for a materialistic society. The jobs we work as help us earn money, in which then, we spend on goods and services. The companies that benefit from our spending spends some of their revenues to other companies, sometimes in other countries. The social hierarchies we have today dictate the spending power and the existence of luxurious goods and services. Luxurious goods and services mean continuous innovation and advancement. Without a materialistic, modern society would not have benefited from international relations, innovations, and could possibly affect how we live.

The reality of COVID-19 and its glaring effect on exacerbate the growing wealth gap proves to show a materialistic society does not benefit everyone. We can agree that the society we live in is far better than a society from the past. However, this does not mean a materialistic culture is without its negatives. The working class lost more in the last decades while the rich have gained more. A materialistic culture involves spending most of our energy producing and consuming more stuff. As a result, the rich can afford to be materialistic, while others will have to work and earn more to be materialistic. The wealth gap that exists in today's society is not a result of a materialistic culture, but of a greedy one that was in place for centuries. The top billionaires in the U.S. holds more wealth than more than lower half of the social ladder. Those at the top need to celebrate materialism and share their wealth at a far greater rate so that those at lower social hierarchies can receive more wealth. 

Though money cannot buy meaning and happiness, materialism is crucial for survival in modern society. Our entire human system is built on materialism. Without it, our economic system will crash, among other interconnected systems. Rather than criticizing materialism, we need to embrace it and encourage those at the top of the social ladder to distribute their wealth at a faster rate and to consume more stuff. 
