When modern societal values come to mind, people often consider the word "materialistic." Our fast paced, technology centered society goes hand and hand with consumption and materialism. 

You can ask many people and you'll probably get a different answer to the age old question: Can money and materialism make you happy? One of the biggest critiques of society that people have is that modern day society is too materialistic. One could argue that our society is largely focused on measuring people by the things they have. From the latest iPhone and other electronic gadgets, to the clothing and shoe brands people are consuming. 

Modern society is built around the concept of materialistic consumerism. By that, I mean that people are judged good or bad by the items they are consuming. People often scramble to get the latest Instagram or TikTok trend item to be with the in-crowd. This trend has spread to all parts of society in short periods of time. I can remember in elementary school being judged for not having name brand sneakers or clothing. Many people have had similar experiences. 

But is modern day materialism worth of criticism when so many people do it? The answer is yes. We are a society who are out for instant gratification. The unconcious goal of society appears to be to consume the planets limited resources at a rate that has never been seen. Just because materialism became normal doesn't mean it should be. The costs associated with this lifestyle is slowly destroying the world around us as we know it. 

Materialism is in itself, a shallow pursuit and value. Valuing goods rather than deeds and people has had serious consequencies for the social construct of society. Consumer materialism is a huge part of that which is often overlooked. People often place more importance on owning certain posessions or having unique experiences than their financial welfare. Our society's mounting debt burden shows that materialism has led to a "charge it" society. This has widespread consequences such as interest rates, mortgates, bankruptcy, defaults, and inflation. People nowadays consider it acceptable to be thousands of dollars in debt for the latest things and society is getting less stable overall because of it. Looking back, it was uncommmon to have any loan but a mortgage and car payments. It's led to the United States debt riddled economy and multiple economic crisises within 30 years.

More than people's willingness to go into debt is the social and societal costs of materialism. Materialism is in itself, an addiction to the material world around you. People believe that consuming goods and services is going to make them happy. It however has led to more problems and restless behavior than ever before. Materialism is filling the gaps in people's lives that they have caused by letting go of the brotherhood of man. Kindness and warmth, friendship, volunteering, community activism, and a neighborly attitude has given way to the attitude of "judge one another by what we all consume." There's a very clique-like attitude that we all have to be the same. Consuming the same goods, services, and entertainment for us to be valued or liked. We have this attitude as a society that stuff can make us happy instead of actual achievements in life.

The enviornmental costs cannot be overstated of materialistic lifestyles. We want what we want now, and society is morphing into an addiction-driven mess. The rate we are consuming natural resources mean that catastrophic climate change can no longer be averted. We are not recycling and recapturing at a rate that is sufficient to preserve the world around us. Materialism has been the death of reduce, reuse, recycle and the conservation movement as a whole. Simple tasks and swaps that have the potential to stop that problem have been replaced by grand, showy gestures that don't accomplish as much. The example I think of is the "un-paper" towel movement. It's an expensive, showy reinvention of using a rag to clean up spills. 

I don't think there a lot of arguments that can be made that materialism is a good thing. While people say they are happy, their restless lifestyles tell a very different story. Materialism is a huge part of that. Most of us consume more and more every year. The thing that is frightening is that there is not a sensible movement to stop consuming. It's true that materialism can often lead to a more convinent life. But is a more convinent life worth increasing society's problem of being lazy? 

Th evidence is clear that materialism is a bad thing for society as a whole. There are not enough benefits to counteract the societal difficulties that are introduced. If we don't stop, think, and push back, materialism will be the death of humanity and the planet we inhabit.
