Materialism in our society gets a bad rap that is really undeserved. Calling someone 'materialistic' is even used as an insult at times to imply that somebody has no depth to their personality or lacks intelligence. However, this act of seeking out goods and spending money on possessions should really not be frowned upon. This kind of spending behavior actually fuels our economy, gives people motivation to work harder, and is more harmless than not. Consider the idea of the stimulus checks given out during the beginning of the pandemic. These checks were sent to people in order to get them spending, there was separate financial support put in place for rent, utilities, and food. The goal was to get people to spend and get the economy moving in the right direction again. Spending is important, spending is neccessary for the society we live in to function properly.

Let's take a deeper dive. When a person is motivated by gaining more material items and is a frequent shopper this cycles money through our economy. When something is bought that in turn keeps people working. There are so many jobs that are impacted by demand for products. People have to produce, transport, and work in places that sell these items. If people are not buying, those workers are not needed and can not be afforded, the companies lay-off or shut down, unemployment rate rises, and more people struggle. The buyer also has to work and contribute to the economy by way of performing their job and paying taxes in order to have the money to spend on these goods. It is easy to argue that the negatives of materialism such as "wasting" money on things that are not neccessities or acts of charity and adding to the world's trash problem, is really quite negligible in comparison to the positives it creates in our economy. 

Further, shaming a person for enjoying to spend their hard earned money on acquiring more material possessions is not going to encourage them to be more charitable, nor does it inspire them to do good elsewhere. In fact, shaming someone is likely to make them less willing to help others because they were treated poorly by society as a whole. If we are being honest, the good acts and wasteful acts are not mutally exclusive, someone can enjoy buying more and more stuff, but also be a charitible person who donates their time and money and behaves in environmentally friendly ways. 

The next time you catch yourself judging a person negatively for appearing to be materialistic, take a moment and step back. Decide if you are judging them because it is actually a bad thing, or is it just because it is different than the way you choose to behave? It's okay if we don't all share the same passions in life so long as we are not actively harming each other.  
