Personally, I wholly believe that people are meant to be happy doing whatever that may be. some days they may want to help others and on other days they may feel it necessary to help only themselves. Many people will sometimes even devote their entire lives to one or the other. What all of these people have in common is that what brings them happiness is completely dependent on who they are as people. In short your happiness is largely dependant on your personality and how you chose to interpret your personality. 

For example, many people try to be a person that admires growth. These type of people may struggle specifically in which they ways they want to grow. A less decisive type will in general  will be less happy than a more decisive person simply because theyre indecision will waste more time worrying than actually growing. In contrast a person of another person may be somebody who values being useful in society or to their loved ones. These types of people require most balance than others in their lives because they too quickly be overwhelmed by all of their commitments and the level of competence they have when it actually comes to helping people. 

Realistically a person's personality has so much weight on how they interpret goals, that its almost imperative that a person come to know themselves well through self-reflection and experience. Coming out of comfort zones and experiencing the world and all its facets will make it much easier for people to understand why they need personally in order to be happy. A lot of times, barring mental illness of course, a person's unhappiness can be simplified into not meeting a specific need. Whether that need comes from material possesions, purpose, or the meaning of life itself depends on the individual. To simplify even further people are more likely to be happy doing what fills them the most with content and people are only able to figure that out through new experiences and trial and error. im not entirely sure what else to write i feel i made my point.
