While I do think it is highly subjective what the meaning of the words too much entail with respect to discussing an effect on people, that level of subjectivity does mean that I can make an argument about what I think too much means. For me the meaning of too much has to do with the effect that images can have on influencing behaviors and actions such that humans act in ways that are ultimately detrimental to society and human progress. With respect to human comminication images and impressions are integral to how a vast majority of human beings communicate with each other, and so the question of whether images and impressions have too much of an effect on people is heavily context dependent. In this essay I'll be asserting the argument that images and impressions can have and have had too much of a negative effect on human societies with respect to the spread of the coronavirus and the coronavirus pandemic as a whole. 

I would certainly argue that images and impressions can have too much of an effect on people in some circumstances, especially with respect to areas of human communication like propaganda, since those images can be utilized to convince others to act in ways that result in immoral outcomes and also unfavorable outcomes. The most noticeable and certainly memorable example for me that I can think of in the past few years has to do with the amount of misinformation and false statements that were made with respect to the coronavirus pandemic. The unfortunate reality is that a global, worldwide pandemic has definitely been affecting human societies around the world. It's undeniable at this point that the disease has spread and has affected millions of people in negative ways that have disrupted their lives. This disease has been infecting millions and people and there have been a significant number of people who have been hospitalized and the most severly affected have died from this disease. To the best of my knowledge there is currently no cure for this disease, only ways to respond to it to slow the spread or to treat it when someone has fallen ill with the disease. 

One of the main ways to reduce the spread of the coronavirus is by following several different safety measures that have been discussed around the world by public health organizations. Those images and impressions for what some of the key safety measures are  have been difficult if not impossible to avoid when walking about during daily life, especially for someone like me who rides public transportation when I want to travel great distances. For quite some time now one of the requirements for traveling on a bus or a train is to wear a face mask. The same applies for traveling by plane and also on a ferry boat, in my experience. Meaning that masks have become a ubiquitous part of life for many who for whatever reason opt to travel by public transportation instead of by personal vehicle. 

Some of the main safety measures that are known to work are things like social distancing and wearing a face mask that sufficiently reduces the spread of particles in the air.  The tragedy of these images and impressions with respect to misinformation about the safety measures to reduce the spread of the coronavirus is that people who otherwise might not have been infected if they'd followed the safety measures did get infected. Even worse, once a vaccination was created that serves to reduce the spread of the disease and reduce the overall effects of the disease if someone contracts it those images and impressions of misinformation about the vaccination have led to very tragic outcomes. Anyone who was influenced by the misinformation such that they believed the misinformation instead of what scientific consensus was saying with regards to vaccinations and treatments for coronavirus definitely, I would argue, suffered too much of an effect and those individuals qualify as people. From what I've observed by following the news and paying attention to changes in current events is that there's two significant groups of people that have been swayed by misinformation, and those categories of people are not always mutually exclusive. Specifically, the two groups I'm discussing are the anti-maskers, those who refuse to wear masks for whatever reason, and the anti vaccine group, those who refuse to get vaccinated. 

I'd argue that images and impressions that were designed to get people to not wear masks definitely had too much of an effect on people when those images were successful at convincing any percentage of the population to not wear masks as a response to the coronavirus because it entailed that there was an increased risk of spreading the disease, and that increased risk translated to more people hospitalized and more people dead who otherwise would not have been hospitalized or died. The same argument applies for vaccinations and getting vaccinated against the coronavirus. If there is any amount of people who were persuaded by images and impressions that somehow convinced them for whatever reason to not get vaccinated, then those images had too much of an effect because the end outcome was that more people ended up getting sick who otherwise did not have to be sick. One of the main problems with images in the modern day is that it is sometimes extremely difficult to figure out the veracity of a claim. 

Part of it has to do with a willingess to accept the truth of evidence that is presented, but sometimes the problem also has to do with the veracity of the source presenting the truth. There is some subset of human populations that are susceptible, for whatever reason, to believing claims that are presented even if there is not a significant amount of evidence or even any evidence at all to actually prove those claims to be true. Meaning that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people because, for at least some people, they are willing to believe what amount to lies and mistruths and then act on those lies and mistruths in such a way that their actions have deleterious consequences for society. 

It is a great tragedy of the modern information age that information can be communicated quickly and efficiently without being sufficiently fact checked before it is presented to large populations of people, and that those who are propagating the information can quite often do so using a veil of secrecy to hide their true intentions while propagating the information. The evidence is undeniable that when enough people believe some lies enough, in this case lies and misinformation presented in the form of images about masks and vaccinations, the effect can be too much on all people because it can lead to some getting sick, ending up in the hospital or in the worst cases dying all because some were influenced by lies they allowed themselves to believe.     
