We live in a consumer-driven environment. It is impossible to turn on a TV or radio, or walk down a street, or even open up your phone without being bombarded by advertisements. We are encouraged to "Buy, baby, buy". So it is not surprising that we, as a species, accumulate possessions. It is instinctive. We are hunter-gatherers, and we store up food and other necessities for survival for when times are hard. Materialism is our default. So is it our fault? Should we be criticized for that?

Some possessions, naturally, exist for neccesity. Modern applicances not only allow us to keep food longer, but some people depend on them for the storing of vital medicine. It would be wrong to criticize a diabetic person, for example, for simply owning a fridge for their insulin. But when the materials we amass begin to dominate us, we should take pause. What affect is our constant desire for more having on our environment? We are plundering our limited natural resources whilst spewing noxious gases into our air. For what? A nicer car? We are obviously on a road towards our own extinction.

There is a famous Native American quote that states "Once the last river is polluted and the earth is barren, only then will men realize that money cannot be eaten." Yes, a capitalistic society may be freer than a closed, Communist society that cannot provide for its own people. But they are both extremes. Society is a collective. No one is self-made. We rely on other people building our roads, taking away our trash, keeping the lights on, etc. And yet materialism is not evenly distributed. The richer get richer and the poor get poorer. "It costs a lot to be poor", said James Baldwin. The poor are always playing catch-up, never getting ahead, because the materials they have the money to buy are of lesser quality and do not last as long. And yet woe be tide any person on 'welfare' having the audacity to have a nice phone!

Yes, we are too materialistic, and we should be criticized for it. We judge others by their outward appearance on a regular basis. We show our 'best selves' - that is, our fake selves - on social media for others to envy, while simultaneously envying the very people we are trying to impress. We amass, we hoard, we want more, and so we amass more. But in doing so we miss what is really important. Do you think Steve Jobs wouldn't have given up all his wealth just to have the chance to see his children grow up? And yet we strive for that level of 'success' - the material wealth -  ignoring the blessings we already have. Our lives. Our health. Our family. Our friends.

As much as you may like to think so, another limited edition purse isn't going to match that. Not even close, baby.
