With all of the postives we have gained with the advacnement of our soceity, the increase in media being used as a platform to   manipualte the way in which people think has also seen a increase.  While it seems ingnorant to belive this is a skill aquired only within the last century, its prevalence in day to day lives of people around the world has become more apparently so. People around the world have fallen vicitm to false representatation of people and products on large and small scales. Throughout this paper I will be using this ideology to argue that images and impression have far too much an effect on people and their beleif systems. 

People in current society seem to have developed a hyperfixation on the way things appear, whether it be themselves or a product they are buying, there seems to be a lack of emphasis on the true nature of what they are observing rather than the aestethic vibe it gives off. In the wrold of dating, many relationships end after the three month mark because scientists have deemed that is on avergage the longest amount of time a person can hide their 'true colors'. In the world of politics, people running for posptions of power base their campagins on buzzword topics in order to envoke a desired feeling of voters hoping to gain a vote in the process. However when elected choosing to not use their power to work on the issues adressed in their campaigns. Fast food resuturants such as McDonalds using the power of color theory to envoke pavlonian feeling of hunger when people drive past a resturant location. All of these examples exemplifying the notion that society used many different aspects of human psychological nature in order to maniuplate their thoughts and feelings to receive a desired outcomes. I beleive that manipulting peoples beleifs from political to food choice perfectly depicts that images and impressions have far too much an effect on people and the choices they think they are making. 

One could provide a counterargument of this point encompassing the idea that everyone on this earth has fudged their personality to represent themselves in the best light before. Maybe it was during a job interview or on a first date. The meat of this argument being that if everyone partakes in this certain behavior then how could it be classified as having too much of an effect on people. It should more appropriately  be deemed as a societal norm or standard and if this behvaior is a standard for all people then it must be contrbuting postive effects to the way of human life. While it  is hard to dismiss the notion that people do tend to manipulate the appearences of themselves and others in order to create the most appealing narrative for success, I do not believe that soley indicates this is a positive phenomena for society to be experiencing as a whole. 

In conlcusion, despite the notion that a vast majority of people capitlaize off the use of images and impressions to create a specific narrative they wish to promote, it has much too large a grasp on out society. Instead of finding motivation in being the best person or creating the best product it seems we have shifted focus on just simply appearing like the a good person and creating the best packaging. As much of a benefit as this may be to people whose carrers encompass the marketing and advertisment fields, overall for the betterment of soceity it seems we have drifted into frightful territory where we disregard what or who the product or human at hand truly is and rather choose to view the scenario through the rose colored glasses of what they could be. 

