Materialism is the pursuit of physical possessions. Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Humanity is born into a physical world without any choice in the matter. While some of us believe that our ultimate goal is to return to the spiritual realm, our souls must first obtain the knowledge of how to do so in this physical world.

Materialism is a negatively connotated way of talking about the acquisition of resources. A person's primary goal in this life is to continue living. As one gathers more resources, that person becomes less dependent on other people to survive day-to-day. Eventually, with a sufficient stockpile of resources, a person can become mostly independent of other people. At that point, the person no longer has to trade time to obtain more resources. Thus, the person can use their time to focus on obtaining spiritual knowledge. Most people go through their whole life giving away their time in an endless pursuit of more resources. But if their materialistic pursuit is well-planned, then they will have an abundance of time.

A possible counterargument is that diligently obtaining resources is self-serving. But that idea again shows a lack of understanding of the long-term plan of the resource-gatherer. When the materialistic person has reached the stage where time is available, that person can help others. The person can spend their time understanding spiritual matters, and then the person can share this esoteric knowledge with others. Ultimately, this long-term plan helps everyone understand the true nature of reality so that everyone may eventually return to the Heavenly Father, the Radiant One, the First Light in the spiritual realm. 

Truly, materialism is not the end goal. It is the stepping stone toward an existence where materialism plays no role in happiness. We are born into a material world. We cannot simply give up hope. We must use the knowledge we have and the resources available in this world so that all of humanity can reach the spiritual realm, where we belong.
