Many people may feel that we as a modern society have become obsessed with materialism. Materialism is without a doubt an essential aspect of us as humans. While the schools of thought surrounding this vary from embracing or rejecting materialism, nearly all will acknowledge materialism as being inherent to us as a species. Now has society become too materialistic in its never ending quest to consume products or is this increasingly prevelant critique of this aspect of our human existance unwarrented? Many feel that this critique of modern society being too materialistic is harsh if not outright incorrect, however I believe this opinion to be incorrect. In fact, I believe modern society has not been criticized enough even if the criticism can be harsh.

To begin with, we should look at our early beginnings as a species where everything we can see ourselfs in the most stripped back fashion. Humans began as hunters and gatherers, the luxury of material accumulation is nearly absent during these times. The task of surviving created agency, this is something we can see carried all the way into our modern human sensibilities. We all have a desire for that survival instinct to be scratched as we as a society becoming increasingly more reliant on material objects. Sure you may say that your fast food tastes wonderful but it doesn't fill the us with satisfaction as does the act of finding a DIY alternative to the convienent. This aspect of our basic human instincts clearly points to the fact that we as humans do not need an increasingly materialistic lifestyle to be fullfilled or incentivize productivity. If anything we as a society have become so immune to the critiques leveled against us that we are denying ourselves a huge pathway to personal and communal satisfaction.

Another point I would like to make centers around the idea that we "need more" to fullfill our sense of personal enjoyment. This is cleary false when you look at how we consume material products and at the rate we do. Just look at cell phones, Samsung and Apple products essentially are luxury items that provide more than what is need for our modern day to day lives. The three cameras on the back of our iPhones sit unused yet we become so fixated on each marketing campaign announcing yet another feature the vast majority of consumers will never touch. We equate more with happiness eventhough we as a society have conditioned ourselves into this mindset which has left a void. A feedback loop of materialism leading to more materialism which is why I believe we as a society need to be criticized for. 
