As society becomes more fast paced, emphasis on competition and personal growth have become common. In a work environment, competition focuses on an individual's success above and beyond those around them. Even in more casual environments, competition between individuals emphasizes highlighting oneselves abilities over other participants. This emphasis on the individual competition, however, presents potential problems and needless hurdles. Shifting the focus on cooperation rather than immediate competition would in the long run be more beneficial for society.

An attitude of constantly worrying about competing and an emphasis on individual achievement can cause issues for endeavours that involve multiple people. As a personal example, our workplace maintains a cooperative relationship with everyone and the work that they do. When someone has an emergency or is out sick, instead of using that time to get ahead of someone who is out at work and look better than them, everyone pitches in and helps. That way, the company as a whole looks better to our customers. The focus on if someone is better can diminish the whole of society or an organization if taken too far. It may help the individual in the short run, but it can cause issues with companies, organizations, or even more casual gatherings like sports teams. 

It is true that competition can help with individual performance, in that someone can be spurred on by expecting to be noticed by outperforming everyone else. If there is any group that is involved, however, that individual performance can do little to help the group if the rest of the group is not being prioritized. A major achievement of college sports atheletes is to win the Heisemen trophy for stand-out exellence in college football. But a player cannot get there alone, it would be nearly impossible for one man seeking glory to go up against a whole football team to prove himself. They need the cooperation of the team to achieve the end goal.

Both concepts of cooperation and competition are important in their own ways, but cooperation in the long run will be more successful for society as a whole. While competition is necessary as a promotional tool to allow individuals to strive for recognition and success, it will not amount to much if not combined in a collaborative effort that will pool everyone's resources to achieve a goal greater than one could achieve on their own. 
