I agree that materialism is a common thing in communities.  But feel it would be so much better if we would take more concern of the people in our lives over the stuff we have.  But sadly we all rely on getting more stuff to show how important we are to our family and friends.

I can honestly say that in my life I want to focus on the people in my life.  I have lost some very important people in my life and regret the things  I did not get to do or say to them.  So I am now focusing on the people and the times I get to spend with them.  Yes I do still buy things at times, but I do not focus on that and the things I get are what is needed and do not feel I need to brag about what I have to others.

To me things would be so much better in the world if we all cared more about how people feel and took that into consideration.  You never know what someone is going through in their life.  A smile to someone can go a long way.  Saying hi, good moring, holding doors, saying please and thank you are way more important, at least to me.

But those that are into buying things and bragging, good for them.  Just do not feel that people should be judged by what they have or how big their house is. I think that everyone has a decision to make and that would be about how they want to be.  It is up to us to do things differently.  And show people that they mean something in the world and that they are not forgotten.  That we do appreciate the things that people do and never take people for granted.  I want to be able to make the people that I may not even know that there are good people still out there that will say hi, that are not affraid to acknowledge them, no matter how different.  

Sometimes all it takes is to listen to what someone has to say.  Buying things is nice, but making someone smile is even better!!  I would hope that people would not critize others for any reason.  It is their choice what they spend their money on and the type of person that they are.  Just personally prefer people over things and do not ever see that changing for me.
