Have you ever been to a mall? It seems like a strange question, right? To ask the average American if they've been to a mall seems like the equivalent of asking if they've breathed, or if they've ever had a tall glass of water. The sprawling retail epicenters of many American towns, shopping malls have long served as a shining example of what lies at the heart of our nation, her most coveted ideal: excess. America- not as a geographic collective of individual people, but as an empire, a unit, a global superpower- values the concept of the material, of producing and spending until our closet doors are splintering at the threshold. We shop until groceries pile so high in the back of our SUVs that they spill out of the sunroof and scatter along the highway, a trail of breadcrumbs leading to our six-figure, ticky-tacky homesteads, indistinguishable from the others perched beside it. We are a nation of spenders on an eternal quest for the next fix, the next cash register, the next product. And for what? Aside from the necessities- a roof over one's head, food in the home, a decent amount of clothing- what is really gained from the constant crank of the money machine, of dollars and cents converted to tchotchkes and gadgets and $3,000 laptops like the one I'm using the write this essay? To quote Beyonce, America Has a Problem. And that problem's name is materialism.

Even more than the buying, we have a waste problem. In your time on the internet, no matter how limited, you've more than likely seen an infographic declaring that over 70% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions come from just 100 corporations. It's an astronomical ratio, one that makes it easy to place the onus of climate change on the shoulders of nameless corporate shills, their suits and ties stained with the blood of citizens of the global south whose home countries don't have or can't afford the infrasructure required to survive our changing climate. Have your ever seen an infographic about fabric waste? What about plastic? The materials used to feed our materialism, to craft the miscellaneous things we're so addicted to, aren't just filling our closets and our homes, but our landfills as well. They don't biodegrade once you throw them out or stuff them in your township-designated recycling bin. They can't be repurposed as quickly as the "no plastic straws" campaign at your local Starbucks would have you believe. They are rotting away, contributing significantly to the global rise in CO2 levels, killing us even as we continue to swipe, spend, and hoard to capacity in the name of keeping up with our peers.

Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? No, modern society should be studied. It should be carved up like a cadaver, organs placed on the scale, bone and muscle flooded with light until we figure out how it is that we spend so frivolously, even at our own peril. Sorry I went dangerously off-topic y'all, but this is what my brain produced!
