    What is a human in 2022 if not for all of their gadgets, gizmos, and other material goods? Ever since the beginning of capitalism and the industrial revolution, we, humans, have become more and more attached to our material possessions. While many of these things have full real-world functionality to make our lives easier, have we become too attached to our possessions? I believe so! We need to do a much better job of becoming self-reliant again and figuring out things for ourselves.
     To begin, the rise of capitalism has brought us many more inventions because of the nature of supply and demand. Many of these items have been very useful in pushing people to the net level. For example, vehicles have made it easier than any other time in history for people to get from point A to point B. Cellular devices make it to where someone can communicate and now even see each other from completely opposite sides of the globe. There is no question that materialistic goods have been very beneficial to the human race, but have they come completely without consequence?
     To continue, there is no question that these materialistic possessions have helped us evolve to where we are now but are we too attached? I've personally found myself in very bad moods when forgetting my cellphone at home on my way to work. I know my route to work, I have my contacts synced to my work email, and I have phones I could use at work if there is an emergency; yet, I still get into a bad mood if I have forgotten my phone.  I imagine any millenial would agree with this sentiment. We have definitely became too attached to our material goods and most of the things we own (too many pairs of shoes) are completely useless in a funcitionality perspective. Will we be able to evolve past our things and realize what is really important again? I truly hope so!
     In conclusion, if we don't stop relying on our materialistic goods for everything, they will become detrimental to the development of the human race. We used to rely on our memory to rememeber how to get somewhere. We used to vacuum our own floors, helping with small amounts of exercise. Now we have robots that could do that for us for under $100. Of course these things are beneficial for us if used correctly, but if not, can lead to a regression of the human mind and condition. Let us get back to the days where our gadgets and gismos helped us relieve stress, instead of being the source of our anxiety and panic. Think about if you really need that thing or just want it because it is cool or flashy.


