We live in a society where appearance is everything. Models, actors and social media influencers all spend their lives carefully crafting their persona and presenting only the most perfect image to us as consumers. The idea that appearance is everything also translates to consumerism. Shiny, flashy packaging attracts buyers but may not be a true representation of what is inside. Outward appearance and image has a strong influence on people, especially young people, in our current society.
A carefully crafted image, rather than reality, has too much of an effect on people. This is demonstrated in the way that social media influencers present the best version of themselves and others spend their time and effort trying to emulate the influencers that they follow. Many of these influencers have insecurities, sordid pasts, and other struggles, but they only present a happy, positive, beautiful image to their followers. Another example is fast fashion. Brands like Shein and Forever 21 sell the latest trendy clothes for next to nothing, but these clothes quickly fall apart and go out of fashion. These brands' flashy advertising and low prices attract customers without regard for sustainability or quality. Sometimes these brands also issues false claims that are unsupported by research. 
Some may argue that projecting a less than truthful image is something that has been done since the beginning of time and is completely natural. For example, women in the Victorian age used corsets to present an image of an unnaturally small waist. It can also be argued that people are smart enough to understand what is real and what is not.  However, there is no arguing with the fact that in 2022, image means everything in a way that it never did in the past. With the rise of social media and technology in general, people are receiving a constant influx of advertising and curated images and a rate that has never been seen before in history. These images can lead to people feeling inadequate and trying to reach standards that are unrealistic. Influencers and advertisements can also lead to people buying products that they don't need or that won't help with that they are advertised to help with. There are many "wellness" products that influencers promote that do not actually provide many (or any) of the promised benefits.
In conclusion, images and impressions definitely have too much of an effect on people. People are constantly inundated with advertising and influencing. This leads to people buying items that are poor quality or that they don't need. It also leads to a lot of insecurity and feeling that one cannot keep up with the standards of today. With all of the information that is available at all times, it is a stressful time to be alive.
