Materialism has been around for many years and has taken many forms over the last few centuries. From kings of old wearing purple robes to symbolize royalty and money to billionaires today sailing the open seas in yachts valued over $100B. Materialism is an innate thing that many people don't learn in school. People like to be comfortable and many of the things that make us comfortable in life happen to be a little pricey and materialistic. 

I do not believe that society should be criticized for being materialistic. Materialism fuels the economy and business and is ultimately what keeps the worlds economy afloat. People who want more money to buy things work harder at their jobs to earn the money to buy more things. Maybe you go spend your hard earned money on items from a small business. That would satisfy your need for material things while also benefitting somebody else's business and putting money in their pocket. Personally, I see nothing wrong with materialism. Another big trend that has really gained more traction recently is thrifting. Thrifting is the act of buying old stuff for a reduced price. This idea allows somebody new to enjoy something old that somebody doesn't want anymore. This also makes some nice items obtainable by those who may not have the money to buy it fresh off the shelf. This also helps reduce the environmental footprint that is unfortunately created by some companies, namely fast fashion. The one caveat to that is that your materialism should not come at the expense of others. If you work hard for 40 hours a week in construction then you deserve to buy that new recliner or those new boots or maybe a nice weekend getaway for your family. If you are doing something like exploiting your workers or buying things that actively hurt other people then I absolutely believe that your materialism should be criticized.

The other side likes to argue that people are able to live below their means and not be as materialistic. Which is true, there are certainly people who can live on the bare minimum and find the joy and comfort of life in different places than materials. While some people live a minimalist lifestyle to achieve this, one does not have to give up have material goods to still find joy and comfort in non-matieral thingsAnd on the opposite side of the spectrum, there are certainly people who take the idea of materialism too far. You should not be hurting others in your quest for material goods. Hundred billionaires who make their money by exploiting their workers with low pay and bad working conditions just to afford their super yacht should be criticized. Also certain companies that keep the materialism machine going by unsustainably, mass-producing products for consumer consumption should be criticized. Fast Fashion companies like Shein and H&M mass produce cheap clothing that people buy and usually don't get long term use out of. If it's all you can afford then you have to do what you have to do. But the people that willingly choose to continue to buy the same item year after year because the quality is bad instead of spending the extra money to get a piece of clothing that will last them much longer and overall save money in the long run deserve to be criticized. There is an incredibly valid argument for the side of criticizing materialism because certain people take it too far.

There is a fine line between good materialism and bad materialism. The people who take it too far make the average consumer seem a lot worse than they really are. There is nothing wrong with splurging on a new car or a phone every once in awhile. As long as you are moral in the way you make your money and moral about the way you spend your money, I see nothing wrong with modern societies' materialism as long as it is done in moderation.

