The world we live in today seems entirely focused on outward appearances. This has led to a more and more shallow existence for the majority of the human race as we fail to see anything beyond surface level and forget the value of what lies beneath.

We have become obsessed with social media platforms and what our outward appearance says to others, as well as increasingly judgmental of the outward appearance of others. How many follows and likes a person gets somehow now equates to what value that person has both in society and in general.

The beauty industry promotes unrealistic and unachievable standards creating more self-hatred in those unable to look like the billboards and magazine covers, many unaware of how much editing goes into such photos.

Likewise, men are faced with unrealistic expectations on what it means to "be a man." They face just as much of an onslaught of images and videos of what to wear, how their body should be, what they should say, etc. in order to be considered "good enough."

We also see that those who fail to maintain a feel-good, happy-go-lucky attitude simply get left behind. Algorithms designed to keep those who have fallen from their expected "happy place" from appearing as much as their opposites and "friends" who decide to scroll past cries for help as they are on social media to lift their mood, not dampen it.

While the logic makes sense, I feel the compassion is leaving us. The ability to empathize. We are more and more divided and we are blind to our similarities and willfully ignoring the suffering of those we claim to care about. 

Yes, we want to remain happy and try and keep our own depression from creeping in. However, I don't feel it is necessary to entirely ignore those who fail to meet the unrealistic expectations of our current society. We need to restore the balance.

As our world becomes increasingly chaotic and uncertain, I feel it is up to us to see past surface level, see the deeper meaning and value in things again. Be there for one another. Help uplift others and so uplift ourselves. There is more to the world than what our two eyes can see. There is an interconnectedness we seem to have forgotten. The beauty of our uniqueness.
