The pursuit of happiness is a goal which most people-- regardless of race, religion, background, or beliefs-- share. In so sharing a common goal, it stands to reason that happiness itself is a communal experience. Focusing too myopically on personal goals and independence can lead a person to neglect their duties to their friends, family, communities. Happiness, then, is something which can only be sustained if one endeavors as well to include others in their dreams.

I believe true happiness comes when a person finds his or her own place in the grand scheme of things. Helping those around you feels good-- think of how often you've felt happy just to be in a room of other happy people. And the more happy people exist in the community you help to build and nurture, the more opportunities those individuals have to then pass it on even further, or to support people within their own community who fall on hard times. Building a stable support network is imperitive to creating a thriving, compassionate society. Cooking a meal, playing a game, donating to charitable causes-- all of these activities feel good because they can be experienced by and with the people you care for.

Some find purpose in accomplishing their own private goals, valuing ambition, competition, and self-service. This kind of ego-driven self-improvement may, however, lead to a inability to maintain close relationships with other people, since that person would always regard others as obstacles in the road to achieving their happiness, or else cast them aside when they no longer have any value. A man who suddenly achieves all his goals and dreams and ambitions in life will only be lonely and miserable if he has no one left around him with whom to share in his triumphs. One could argue, as well, that a certain degree of selfishness is necessary to achieving happiness. A person needs to make sure their own needs are provided for before they can truly help others-- ignoring your own health or wellbeing while endlessly giving to those around you will only exhaust you, leading to burn-out. But selfishness taken to the extreme, where a person sacrifices relationships for their own dreams, takes advantage of people and contributes to a greater overall unhappiness.

The joy in chasing after happiness is having others to share in that hunt, everyone offering mutual support, guidance, and ecouragement.
