Are people more happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others?. First we need to understand the meaning of happiness. Happiness is the inner feeling that comes over you when we know life is going on good  and we smile. It is the act of being joy. In other words when people tend to be successful, they feel happy. We the human beings search resons to be happy now and then. Nobody wants to feel sad for anything, but it is the phenomenon that everyone can't be happyfor everything. One mans win is other man's lose. So it is natural that one will be happy and the other will be sad. Other thing to focus here is that people would tend to feel more happy when they achieve their personal goal or when they see other being happy.

People are happy if they focus on their personal goal: It is a universal truth that every human being on this world will feel happy if they succeed in their activity or personal goals. One is always committed on achieving their personal goals. The best way to define success or happiness of success is that when they complete the task in a manner and when they look back and say to themself that I couldn't have done better than this. This is called happiness of success beacuse that person is happy to complete the task by giving his/her 100%. Personal goals of person are very broad as people tend to keep things tight for themselves and challenge now and then so that things do not come easily to them. And why not be happy when someone reaches that desired goal. Focusing on personal goals is everyone right however a leader focuses on other goals and happiness. Every leader can be an individual but every individual cannot be a leader. So one has to prioirtize stufff what is important for them. To the extent that we are making progress on our goals we are happier emotionally and more satisfied with our lives. Moreover setting achievable goals and pursuing them will produce a sense of well being.

People are more likely to be happy on the happiness of others: We have seen in the previous paragraph that person feel happy if they succeed in their goals however we have people on this planet who tend to be happy on the happiness of others. For example: a social worker who has vowed to help people in need at any given point of time. His help for the people in unconditional which means to say he is not helping people for achieving some reward. It is his will and desire to help the needy. His success is counted when he sees the needy people being happy and in turn he is happy because he sees other people happy. We have leaders who constantly strive to help the others for the betterment of the society and well being of the people. They tend to derive happiness from the happiness of the others. These people numbers are very few because now days humans are being self centered and focus more on personal goals rather than the otehrs happiness.

To conclude the following: we live in a society where we could find both set of people. One who feel happy by achieving their personla goals and other set of people who feel happy on the happiness of others. No person is incorrect in their behavior. Infact we have to see the situation and decide what suits best in what scenario. It would also be incorrect to say that one has to follow only one path but we also have to make sure we don't judge any person randomly. As it is likely said, dont judge a book by its cover, same is the case with the people. We can't simpply judge a person on the criteria of he/she being happy on what cause. The topis could have different outcomes when spoken in general however we would like to conclude that things and time decide the reason for being happy.
