Happiness is a nebulous thing. Often, people disagree with the source of true happiness. The simplest example people think of is the ability to satiate their own deepest desires - love, money, a big house, good food, and unlimited power. However, there is much more to life than what you can get for yourself. While personal goals are important, the happiness of those around you cannot be overlooked.
The emotions of others has a strong impact on the way you feel. Imagine that you grow up in poverty. Your parents spend all their time working. Or, perhaps, you are an adult with a partner who spends all their time working. They are always on edge because they aren't living their true life. You sense their misery as soon as they come in the door. This occurs night after night. You absorb all their worries about life, your finances, and the future. You soon start feeling unhappy, too. On the other hand, you can give this to your partner, siblings, parents, friends, or anyone else around you. Your mood has such a strong impact on others. It is difficult to be happy when everyone is around you. It's no secret, for instance, that many relationships fail because of money problems. The unhappiness from a bad situation has a way of getting passed around. Once that resolves, people become happier and act in a much more prosocial way. Relationships succeed because people make one another happy.
Our immediate need for gratification is powerful. However, there is evidence that this runs out over time. People who achieve a certain level of wealth don't get any happier. This is because they have nothing left to gain, nothing left to prove. Their immediate needs are met. Now, they want something more. They feel unhappy because they are idle. Their meager activities stop being effective. This is because the activities they are involved in often lack meaning. Business ventures, for instance, aren't impactful. Think of Bill Gates going into Microsoft every day. All of a sudden, life is the same, day in and day out. Money isn't personal fulfillment. When you reach your earthly goals, you look for something more spiritual, and that typically is the ability to make others happy. This is why so many people turn to charity.
Rich or poor, people give to charity. Not only is it a social obligation, but it is also a fulfilling one. Whether you're donating your time or your money, you are having an impact on those around you. This is because, deep down, everyone is part of a community. Without a functional community, we are alone. The individual is small compared to the greater good. This is why we enjoy going online to look at heartwarming videos and other sources of shared happiness. Even things like social media exist, ostensibly, to connect people. Personal happiness becomes quite shallow when held next to the potential to spread joy to others.
When it comes to living a personally fulfilling life, the happiest people have the happiest home lives. They live in harmony with their partners and the others around them. This tends to be the ultimate goal people dream of, growing up, because all we know is love. We are raised to love through our parents and get great satisfaction out of our home lives, the real constant behind whatever is going on in the world. The values of capitalism can be taught, but family and friends are consistent around the world. If you lack that, you will struggle to be happy, no matter how good your personal life looks on the surface. Ask an individual who calls themselves forever alone or an incel. They crave the reflective joy of others. Some of these people are very successful but not happy because they feel so alone. They really want to be part of something greater. While finding a partner is an individual goal, it does relate to something greater than ourselves. The same rule applies to children who grow up in broken homes or adults stuck in bad situations. They may have goals they want to accomplish, but they are really looking for something bigger than themselves.
If you are stuck around miserable people, you will be miserable. If your community is bad, you will feel bad. No one in this life can go it alone. No man is an island, as the saying goes. We each have a responsibility to the collective, and this is mutually beneficial. All our goals of work and worry are nothing compared to what we gain from giving back. We do not like seeing suffering in our neighbors, let alone the entire world, so everyone must step back on occasion to think about what they really want. Is it more important to join the Peace Corps or earn as much money as you can in a dim cubicle in a job you hate? So many people choose to go out and actively help others because they know the secret behind true happiness.
