It is commonplace in today's society to be constantly innundated in advertisements. They are on every social media platform, every TV channel, every radio station, and billboards as we drive to the grocery store. As we all know, advertisements exist to sell us goods or services, no matter what. They are often not truthful, not honest, not transparent, do not present the full scope of information, etc. 
There is little regulation on advertisers so they are (mostly) free to say what they want regardless of the truth. We see this all the time with politicians, celebrities, and product packaging. This is so common that there is a whole sector of lawyers who dedicate their time to penalizing these companies or individuals that have lied to consumers. If you look up "Class Action Lawsuits" there are pages and pages of national lawsuits against companies for false advertising or delivering faulty goods/services to consumers. 

The most common response from these companies or individuals is acknowledging the issue but never taking responsiblity, the opt to pay out those affected to make it go away. Since we live in the United States, everyone knows "freedom of speech" but forget that freedom of speech does not mean freedom of consequences. Unfortunately, most of these companies or individuals have enough money to handle these situations with little to no long term reprocussions. 

If we were presented with honest facts about a person or an item we could make an educated decision as a consumer if we want to support that person or want to purchase that item or service. We face constant pressure to "keep up with the Jones'" and are presented with an oversaturated market of products and services. These products and services are often not presented to us honestly with full transparency and leads to a cycle of over consumption and overflowing landfills. Our oceans are full of brightly colored plastic, our forests are being torn down and habitats destroyed, and people are forced to work in horrible conditions (Shein is the most recent company exposed for this) all for the sake of keeping up apperances. We see celebrities on social media presenting their lives of abundance everytime we open up Instagram, this leads to people feeling pressured to purchase items they don't need  to give them temporary feelings of happiness and fufillment. Advertisers know this about the general public and take full advantage of this fact. 

Those advertisers might make the argument that, if people will buy this, then we will be there to sell it and make money. They see the opportunity to make money and they take it. They can make the arguement that it is not their fault that consumers are too dumb to know better, they just offer the product or service and it's the consumers responsibilty to be educated. While this may have a slight truth to it, it's also dishonest to present products/services in a way that is deceitful. Regardless of whether or not they can, they shold not. Unfortunatley, in a Capatalistic society, I do not see this getting better unless serious changes are made at a foundational level. As long as there is money to be made and power to be gained, this cycle will continue. 
If we could collectivley shift away from over consumption, desire to keep up appearances, and ignorance to the affect this overconsumption has on the planet, we could make a positive shift. This would take away the need for decetful advertising and the desire to consume. If there were regulations on advertisers and politicians as well we could avoid the direct pain and misfortune caused by deceitful advertising. This would lead to increased trust in advertisors, a better market with quality products/ services, and a decrease in the need for litigation relating to these issues. 
