Images and impressions affect people a lot more than the true substance of things, whether these things are simply products we buy in stores or politicians we vote for. While it's sensible that presentation affects us to some degree, it is to our detriment that we are so affected by it that it clouds our judgment for the things that really matter.

By focusing too much on how things look, we miss out on understanding how things truly are. How things truly are is what ultimately affects our lives. When you buy a product, say a pair of shoes, the look of the thing can never be the most important thing, because if it lacks quality, then it will fall apart and how it looks won't be of any use to us. A pile of tatters doesn't look too good, regardless of how good the source of the tatters used to look. When we vote for politicians who are the most charismatic and likeable, we might only fool ourselves when it turns out that they don't have our best interests at heart. The image they give off might cloud our judgment when there is information out there to suggest that what's being presented to us isn't all that representative of what's under the surface. Superficial judgments lead to superficial gains.

Some people may say that how things look, how they're shown to us, all of these are important factors. In my view, this isn't really wrong. The art and skill that goes behind presentation shouldn't be discounted. We like colorful packages and entertaining people because those things are just better than the alterenatives, EG bland cardboard boxes and boring personalities. The happiness we collectively derive from good looks isn't inherently a flaw. If anything, it is a crucial aspect of what makes life, including the products and people in it, worthwhile.

However, it isn't an either/or sort of thing. We shouldn't ignore image, we should merely understand that it's just one aspect of the whole, and we shouldn't let image fool us when we judge the other parts of the whole. We can have lovely looking products made with premium quality and charismatic people in our lives who as sincere and genuine as they are appealing. We shouldn't have to sacrifice substance for style.

Unfortunately, most people, myself included, put too much weight into image, because naturally, it's the first thing we see. It is indeed hard for us to overcome our natural inclination towards flashy images and first impressions. There is a reason we have to have the saying, "don't judge a book by its cover." This problem is so ingrained in us that children need to be conditioned to try to overcome it. Regardless, we should all strive to really overcome this fault and be able to judge not just what things look like, but what they are. When we develop as a society to the point that we can do this, then we will be able to have the best of both worlds.
