Images and impressions do have too much impact on what people think about things, ideas, and people.  The images people see can and usually do affect many people's perceptions.  It's important to remember this when interacting with media and when shopping to try to avoid being swayed.

People can be persuaded to take actions they wouldn't normally take by misleading images and impressions.  This is really common in the interaction between news media and people consuming this information.  The BBC is the best example I have seen of this, but it's not because they are the worst offenders.  It's because I happened to watch a news broadcast of theirs about a year ago when they accidentally showed what happens when guests repeatedly and consistently call them out.  The BBC had a news anchor who I think was Christianne Amanpour but it might have been a different famous newscaster.  She was informing the watchers of what we should think.  She spoke in an authoritative voice and used authoritative words.  Her tone was angry and extremely opinionated.  It was obvious that no one would find out what was actually going on by listening to her.  She had three guests in a row that were high ranking government people from several countries.  They were talking about different conflicts and issues in their regions.  One by one, every guest referred to her as "fake news" repeatedly with that exact phrase, and otherwise shot down her authority.  The final guest, speaking in a thick accent, almost looked like he was laughing without laughing.  This created such a stark contrast between balanced informative news and the perception the BBC was trying to create, that it was obviously some sort of elaborate act with window dressing and angry threats from the news establishment.  

The actions people take when presented with false images can also be going along with the offenders, rather than calling them out.  This can cause really serious problems.  For example people commonly spend too much money when shopping.  The packaging and general appearance and layout of stores and staff can make people think items have more value than they really have.  Then once they get the items home, they realize they didn't really need or even necessarily want some of the items they purchased.  They still have to pay off credit cards and/or come up with money to pay their bills though.  This is so common, it would be great if there was a way to address it.  Some people think this problem isn't really a problem, but I think a lot of those people have a lot more disposable income than most people.

People who have strong or even not so strong political beliefs are often persuaded to engage in protests and other civil disobedience acts by the news media establishment.  That includes the social media news establishment.  I don't think the protestors, looters, and other politically motivated people understand that their safety is at risk both during and after the time they engage in these acts.  The media definitely makes these activities look fun, young, and harmless to the participants, with big gains being made in the participants' lives.  I haven't seen any statistics, but it seems like a lot of them end up thrown in jail, losing their jobs, and losing friends.  They are also at risk of being killed or physically assaulted.  I think a lot of people would think twice about participating in these events if they had a clearer picture of what the consequences often are.  That includes people from every political party and cause.

There are other reasons for why people should think twice when an image makes them think a certain way about something or someone.  The biggest overall reason is that someone is trying to manipulate them into doing something that is good for that person or group.  It might or might not be good for the person viewing the images.  The most useful tool to make sure a person is thinking for themself is to be aware that images and impressions do have an impact, and that will help them step back and think more clearly.
