Although a popular critique, a modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Evolution gave rise to a plethora of creatures designed to achieve three main goals - to feed, to fight, and to reproduce. Humanity has solved the first problem, producing more than enough food to feed every individual person on Earth (delivering the food to everyone is a logistics/geopolitical problem that's outside the scope of this essay). Despite the numerous conflicts throughout the world, humanity achieved a fragile, yet sustained level of peace. Given that the average person then does not need to spend all day hunting or plowing the field, is there anything wrong with them spending the excesses of their labor in pursuit of posessions that might make their time on Earth a little more meaningful, even as many deny their third biological drive, to reproduce? The nihilst or the hedonist would answer "absolutely not." Other philosophers may disagree. The goal of this essay is to explore materialism in a modern society, and argue its merits and drawbacks.

No human, (or animal, as far as the author is aware) asked its creator to be brought into the universe. Yet here they are. In a modern society, a human spends their years learning before entering the workforce, and then living out their aged years doing whatever interests them before their clock expires. During that time they work, they must pay for food, shelter, transportation, and, if they're lucky, have excess to spend on things or pursuits that bring them joy. Unfortunately, given the increasing cost of living and constant exploitation by a ruling elite class, more and more people have less and less to spend on their interests. The minimum wage in the United States cannot pay for a person to rent a home, let alone afford the down payment on a mortgage. The amount of class mobility has stagnated, with fewer and fewer individuals able to increase their own wealth relative to their parents. These people are not materialistic. They are struggling to survive. We cannot critique them for choosing to spend their money on things that distract them from how a system that promised them a rewarding life and comfort were betrayed by a ruling class that services the few able to hoard amount of wealth that cannot be spent by one individual in tens of thousands of years. An amount of wealth that could not be generated by wage alone, in tens of thousands of years.

A critique of materialism fails unless it's a critique of billionaires and the ruling elite that serve them. There is no reason why a person should hoard a billion dollars of wealth, let alone a hundred. When we critique the poor, or even the middle class, for buying a smartphone, a television, or even a frivilous piece of clothing, we are shaming them for enjoying what little is within their means, while ignoring the fact that the only way that billionaires exist, is through the exploitations of millions upon millions of people. Should more people spend their money on charitable giving and volunteering for causes they believe in? Resoundingly yes. However, when a person works sixty to eighty hours per week just to barely scrape by, can we judge them for not having the energy to give even more of their time? Can we judge them for wanting to save what little left over they have to buy something for themselves? Are they selfish for wanting something so small, for all of their hard work? The answer, is, of course, no.

In an ideal world, we would have more and more people choose to give their excesses to those that need it more. To volunteer their time. To donate to a great cause. But when the few are able to overrule the many, by the simple fact that they've hoarded more wealth than is concievable, we clearly do not live in that ideal world. The wealthy and the elite should lead by example. They should shed their wealth and live like the 98% below them. Then we can discuss the merits of critiquing materialism. The toxic root of materialism exists within the upper crust of society. Once they free themselves of their obscene wealth, and we deliver conditions to the people that enable them to more freely pursue what inspires them, only then, can we say, whether or not society, and the average person, is too materialistic.
