  Success , the one word that everyone wants to own in life atleast once. The question is "what brings success?" , rather "what is success?" . If we dive deeper We all have different ideas about success itself.

   For some people success is what they want to achieve in life, for some it may even be some accomplishments. For a children it may own a candy. For stundents it may be geeting good results in the test, For the workers it may be getting a good salary so the success and accomplishments differs from person to person.
 
   Now 'what brings success'. From everyone perspective success is something you won when you achieved something. People tend to have competions in order to bring success. Even among students it is seem as a competition to get good grades. So the student who got first mark is expected to celebrate it with his acheivement. Is it what really success. Does it mean the student who got second mark is not considered to be successful?. From this we can learn the idea we have about success ieself seems wrong.
  
   Success is something that makes us proud of ourselves. People often tend to connect success with competion rather than cooperation. People often forget that cooperation is the key to success. The succees though success will be last only if it is a healthy competiotion. If it is not a healthy competiotion then the success of one will only be a bitter memory for other. But the success we achieve through cooperation will last longer and forever. It will stay as a happy memory for not only onr but for may.

   For some people it may sound odd but in the end cooperation is the things that brings accomplishments with so much joy and turn it into a unforgetable memory. So it is better to have accomplishments through cooperation rater than competition which can bring hatred and dislikes between people. In cooperation accomplishments can be bring through peace, tolerance, love. So from now on it is better to encourage the success which comes from cooperation.
