Materialism is defined as an accumulation of physical items. The modern age has seen an increase in imports and exports, creating ease of access for excess material items. Credit cards and loans have given consumers an easy way to rack up debt in persuit of material items. Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. 

Materialism is unnecessary. It is not only unnecessary but detrimental to our environment. Plastic waste has increased. In hoarding situations, consumers cannot stop buying items that are unnecessary for basic life. Accumulated items put pressure on communities to find more locations to dump trash. Product manufacturing increases waste, between the unnecessary purchase itself, the packaging it comes in, and the time and energy put into the delivery and transportation.

The environement is not the only thing that suffers from the negative effects of materialism. Consumers often spend outside of their means, causing debt. Debt causes stress, which raises cortisol levels in the body and can lead to health issues. There was an article recently about Generation Z using loan services to pay for viral TikTok products. These loan servies such as Affirm and Afterpay break up payments over four months, so they are not considered a traditional loan, yet they are putting an entire generation into debt. These companies do not help the consumer better their credit scores, like a traditional loan or credit card would. They merely put consumers into debt, especially when multiple purchases are made, or when multiple loan services are used. The accumulation of material items isn't exactly the fault of the consumer, either. We are bombarded with advertisements daily, which have a brain-washing effect, and can afffect decision making. Shopping triggers the reward center of the brain, making it addictive and instantly gratifying. 

An argument for consumerism or materialism is the jobs it creates. Amazon alone is the workplace to millions of workers, between warehouse workers, truck drivers and delivery drivers. Transportation and manufacturing is a huge part of present day economy. Though they are on the decline, brick and mortar and big box stores continue to provide steady employment for millions more. 

Overall, the accumulation of material items is not essential to life, and puts a burden on the environment, supply chain, economy, and individual debt. A decrease in unnecessary purchases could alleviate environmental concerns such as fossil fuel usage, and plastic and smog pollution. 
