Stuff, Junk, Items, Knick-Knacks its everywhere! From the items we buy to get around to the things that sit in the junk drawer. Our society thrives on having, selling, trading, and buying things, and we love it. To use what my grandparents would call a fifty cent word, human society is based around materialism. Is this just our standard for being human or is this a problem that we as a society need to combat?

There was a popular trend a few years ago based around what Marie Kondo was preaching. We have too much stuff in our lives and we need to downsize. Her big thing was if you look at something and it does not give you "Joy" get rid of it. Because it is just cluttering up your space and your thoughts. This is not a new concept however, the concept of minimalism has been around for as long as we have had things. Think monks swearing a vow of poverty to be closer to god. This has generally been the exception however, as it was normally a unique thing to do.

As I stated that is the exception, we as humans like to collect things. If there is a product or item, someone out there collects them as a hobby. Some would say it is in our blood to want to gather all of the things. Something primal about gathering all the stuff as to protect it from outside forces like a early human living in a cave protecting his meager possessions compared to today. Humans as a whole spend almost all of our time working to acquire things and spending money. 

I believe that the answer lies somwhere in the middle. Going too far in either direction causes problems. If you forgoe everything to be as minimalist as possible you will need to rely on the help of others to provide your daily needs. On the other hand if you collect everything and can't get rid of things you have a hoarding situation and that also escalates. Sitting somwhere in the middle of those two extremes is where I suggest we shoud be, like a balancing act. If a balancing act is not the perfect example of living as a human in our modern society I don't know what else would fit better.

So should modern society be criticized for being too materialistic? Yes and no. Extreme materialism should be criticized but also should extreme minimalism, both cause problems. My viewpoint is that materialism as a whole is not a bad thing but can be if pushed to extremes.
