You acheive more success by cooperation then competition. Cooperation and helping others will help you get far in life rather than feeling like you have to be in competition with others. If someone is constantly finding ways on how to be better than the next person, you're never gonna be successful or completely satified because everyday it's a constant battle of you trying to better than the next person. Competition at times can have good outcomes, but it depends on how far a person takes it. Some people solely drives off competition as a way to be better or to push themselves, while others just want to be number one no matter the cost. They want to seem better than everyone. 

Cooperation is better to have to acheive success rather than competition because others will respect you alot more and it'll make you more likeable as a person. A person that's a team player and isn't all for themselves will be much more recognized then a person that's selfish and wants to compete over every little thing. Being cooperative towards your supervisor, teachers or even your co-workers will have people look at you ina different light and have other respect you alot more. Superviors or bosses in general not only look at their best workers but always how their best workers deal with their co-workers and staff. If you have the negative outlook that you have to outbeat everyone in everything you wont go as far as someone who's a good worker who may not be the best worker, but is friendly and down to help anyone with any task.

Competition can also play a huge part in sucess depending on how you act upon it. Seeing someone that's on the top of their game and in the same position you'd like to be in should give you motivation. Having rivalry or competition will always have you doing your absolute best everytime which is understanding. You should want to be the best in anything you do but having a competing mindset can only take you so far. At times, trying to be the best in everything will drive you insane or even have you unliked by many people. Wanting to be the best is good, but it's not worth creating enemies while doing so thats why cooperation with others will always overule.

So in the end, competition with others whether it's friend's, family, or co-workers will not get you as far in your career field or life in generally. Being cooperative with others will get you further than ANYTHING. Helping others and just by trying your best will help you go far life.




