Happiness, it seems like that's was everyone is in pursuit of. The question of how we obtain happiness is the issue at hand. Some people think happiness will come when they achieve their goals, others think happiness comes from making others happy. But in fact both are right, and both are wrong. It is only when we persue both personal goals, and the happiness of others, that we ourselves can be happy. 

I'm sure we've all heard of rich and famous people who for whatever reason took thier own life. They had success in their field, they had money, and were very comfrotable, yet it wasn't enough. They were missing something, whatever that something was is unique to each case, but If I had to guess, I would guess it was a lack of companionship, or not feeling connected to others in a meaningful way.

The old saying "its better to give than to recieve" is counter intuitve to some people, but its an old saying for a good reason. When we help others, when we make a difference in the world, it makes us feel good. Little acts of kindness makes others feel good, and it makes the person doing the act of kindness feel good as well.

In the same way that we are kind and helpful to others, we have to balance that with being kind to ourselves. We have to take time to persue our goals, or else we will be left unfullfilled. Having regrets leads to unhappiness, therefore if we help people when we can, and chase our dreams too, I think our regrets will be much less than if we hadn't made these two things important.

In the end the key to happiness is to keep a delicate balance between helping others and helping ourseleves. If the scales are tipped in the helping others direction too much, then our identity becomes blurry and we don't feel fulfilled. On the other hand if we spend to much time on pursuit of goals, we end up lonely and disconnected from others, and if we're really unlucky, we have no one to share our achievements with. Working hard and showing kindness to others, when we can, is the best way to obtain and keep happiness.
