     Everyone is familiar with cooperation and competition. We all understand how they contrast each other, and how they are both important methods to accomplish anything. Competition gives motivation and a measuring stick for excellence. Cooperation however allows us to accomplish much more with others than we can do individually by ourselves. It's important not to mistake them for equal importance, because while competition has motivated many people, cooperation is outright required in order to have anything like modern technology or convenience. Cooperation is fundamentally more important in achieving success than competition is.
   Competition has many merits. As I mentioned earlier it gives motivation, probably the main useful function of competition. The desire to achieve victory over our peers, to surpass what has already been done is a driving factor for many great accomplishments. In individual achievement especially, it's true that people have surpassed their own physical limits many times through continued attempts to always push the limits of what's considered possible for the human body. There are many examples through the Olympics, and many different sports of people doing this. However,  it's important to pay attention to the limitations of competition. Competition doesn't aid the work itself, it merely demands it. Competition doesn't measure the worthiness of a goal, it demands achieving it simply for the sake of competition. Competition can be harmful, since it might encourage unfair, aggressive, and harmful tactics in order to maintain victory. A competitive drive might take into account sportsmanship, but so often it doesn't. In these ways competition can stifle success just as easily as bring success.
   Cooperation is not necessarily in contrast to competition. A team might cooperate by competing with themselves, this might not work for every team, but for some it can give all the benefits of competition with none of the drawbacks. So in this way cooperation is not only better than competition for success, but it can improve on it.
  Cooperation is a far more important device for achievement. Human beings are a social animal, and there is noone who is truly and island fully self sufficient. From the moment we're born we rely on others, and if we choose to remain in a society we must both provide for and rely on others. This is a simple reality of human existance, so cooperation is crucial to our survival, as well as the formation of society. In many ways what I'm doing now required a great deal of human cooperation. I'm writing an essay on a website I didn't make, using a keyboard I didn't make, reading the text of a monitor I did not make. I'm totally dependant on others to have the material goods to earn my living so that I can have food and shelter. I much prefer this arangement over runing down a deer hucking stones in order to feed myself. Success therefore, by most measurements is fundamentally required by humans and among humans to use cooperation at some stage. At least if you want modern civilization and conveninece.
   Competition does have it's place, don't get me wrong. It's an incredible boon to humanity when used properly. However in a sheer comparison of importance with cooperation, there is not competition. Cooperation is far more important hands down to human success.
