The latest popular social media creator clogging your newsfeeds and FYPs, the hottest actress splashed across magazine covers, the list goes on and on. The thing they have in common is that they are typically touted as being "beautiful" or "hot" but they also have the ability to alter their appearance. What type of effect does that have one people?

The images that we are bombarded with on a daily basis absolutely have an effect on us. Far too often, we are more concerned with trying to look like the stars, politicians and internet celebrities that we see every day, and less concerned with what the politics that they stand for, or the content that they are creating. This is especially true of younger girls and women. Where they should be concerned with what the celebrities are trying to persuade them into believing, they can't see past the images they are seeing. Society has taught young girls and women that they need to look a certain way, and because they are seeing these often photoshopped images every day, they never feel that they are okay just the way they are. More and more, you see people developing eating disorders and body dysmorphia because they are constantly comparing themselves to the images that they are seeing on a daily basis. Most of those images are not even real!

Some would say that an image is just that, and image. However, those people do not want to concede, that images are often times harmful, especially when they are altered the way that so many images are nowadays. As they say, a picture is worth a thousand words. If you are photoshopping images to make a model or celebrity appear even thinner or bustier, or with light or darker hair, or lighter or darker skin, it tells the people seeing the image that the person in the picture wasn't good enough. Therefore, how can a consumer look at those same images and think that they, themselves are good enough? 

In conclusion, we as a people, need to be more mindful of the images that we see and that our children see and conscience of the effect that they have on us. Advertisers and media outlets need to do the same thing. 



