In America, our culture is built on materialism, which often symbolizes status. This emphasis on materialism is exacerbated by social media and marketing. Our energy spent making money is often directed towards the sole means of aquiring more things. I believe that materialism is a vital source of meaning in America; however, I believe that finding our meaning in other sources would be much more worthwhile and sustainable. Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic becuase of the implications it has for our climate, planet, and personal well-being.

Social media and marketing are full of advertisements encouraging people to buy more goods. Influencers make their living off of partnering with brands and pushing their products. Social media has become increasingly accessible over the years, which has pushed the consumer culture in America to younger and younger children. The increasing materialistic view of individuals in America leads to more consumption. Focusing our energies on materialism is not healthy becuase it leads to a never-ending cycle of consumption. This consumption does not support financial or environmental sustainability. The want for unnecessary things can lead people into debt and away from a financially secure future. In addition, this materialistic industry does not support our climate by increasing carbon emissions. Focusing on sustainable consumption and decreasing our materialistic mindset could allow us to focus our energy into more fufilling endeavors such as relationship and work that we are passionate about. The unsustainable nature of materialism is what leads me to believe that society should be criticized for its focus on materialism.

Others might have an opposing view that modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Some reasons might be that materialism makes people happy or that it leads to a more robust economy. However, I believe that happiness can be found in other places such as relationships and meaningful work. Finding happiness in material goods is often fleeting and provides short-term happiness whereas relationships can provide long-term fullfillment that is two sided. Our society should be criticized for focusing on materialism rather than creating a culture focused on sustainability and happiness. I believe we could be happier as a society if we put our energy into the people and world around us rather than material things that are fleeting and less meaningful. 
