There is always a debate whether competition is actually healthy in any environment. Most people think cooperation is almost always healthy. I will adress here the pros and cons of both traits. 

Historically, cooperation has always been a driving factor in every society, civilization, empire etc. It's what has allowed human beings to advance technologically in time and produce better tools, better cars, better factories etc. No human being is able to create an Iphone by himself. One needs the full cooperation of a team. Every invention needs to be viewed, assessed, fixed, reviewed re assessed and then finally published. Almost no invention ever comes out perfectly the first time. That's why cooperation is a must in a work environment. Take a look at big corporations like Amazon, or Ikea for example. Millions of workers globally work there to help keep shipments alive, and keep products moving. Some people have achieved success by their own, but those cases are very few compared to the large scheme of things. Cooperation comes with its negatives too though. Quite some times, collaborating with someone for example for a project at work, or to sell a house in real estate, if you side with the wrong person with either the wrong intentions or just not capable to do the job, it could get you in legal trouble, could allow you to lose a lot of money, lose your job etc. There is where I think competing against that person instead of collaborating with them is actually better, because some people will only try to get close to you and "work with you" just to take advantage of you or will only lower your skill or will take a commanding role where you would have thrived more. 

Competition on the other hand, is one's drive to do better at something than someone else. I believe that through that mindset, one can truly surpass his limits and improve in any department that person is putting his/her's time and effort in. I believe there are two sides of competition. A healthy side, and an unhealthy side. Healthy competition as most might call, is when two parties are trying to achieve something in the best way possible, reaching success and trying to beat whoever is competing with you in that department. Unhealthy competition as a simple example, would be two gladiators fighting for a crowd to prove who is the stronges. Virtually, nothing is really gained by this, just like in sports i truly believe one team beating another team in basketball won't change the whole dynamic of the world. But, sports have become increasingly popular in today's age, and the only way a game of basketball or football or tennis has been able to become better is through competition. Competition allows us to find a goal, while having someone trying to defeat you or just do better than you in that goal. To me, this is what drives most people to do better in life. 

In conclusion, both factors are inevitable and extremely important for our species to not only survive, but to truly thrive.
