Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic especially in this day and age. Most materialistic items are only useful for the moment to make people feel better for buying and having it in their homes. After that, the glamour wears off and the item is left sitting untouched for years. Material items take up space that could be used for other things. On top of that, material items require maintenance to keep it clean so that it won't collect dust or get holes or degrade in some manner. For people who move quite frequently, it takes a lot of energy to pack up the items and unpack them in the new place. 

We alway complain that we don't have enough money for this and that. We are all living beyond our means because we value materialistic items that are quite expensive when we can be using that money for bills or savings. Just for that reason alone, we definitely should be criticized for being materialistic. Do we really need to buy a new car every other year or overly expensive clothes to impress our friends? Most of us do not need to buy everything we want, but we do and then when an emergency comes up, we struggle to find the funds to pay for it. We want to blame our employers for not paying us enough, the government for requiring us to pay taxes or some other excuse which has nothing to do with the real issue. We need to use what money we make wisely instead of spending frivolously. Had we been less materialistic and saved the money for a rainy day, we wouldn't struggle as much. 

I'm a bit materialistic at times so I understand the need. Shopping and spending money on myself makes me feel better when I'm feeling blue so I'm sure it makes other people feel the same. We shouldn't have to feel the guilt especially if we can afford to pay for outlandish things; however, being materialistic doesn't really solve the real issue of why I was feeling that way. Also, there are people who are truly suffering and instead of using our money on selfish things, we can help our fellow man. In the end, we can not take our materialistic items with us when we die and having so much of it will be a burden on our surviving family members. Not having so many materialistic items will also help our environment from being crowded once these items are disgarded. 

Some materialism isn't bad. It's just when people go overboard, it doesn't really help anyone except for the businesses that profit off of our need to own these expensive things. People in 3rd world countries get along very well with less and they don't need all of these items to be happy. Maybe it's about time we learn from that and follow suit.  It's a bit ironic for people who are very materialistic because they need to own things to make themselves feel better. Maybe if they were living a more basic life without the materialistic items, it would take some of the pressure off and help them to live more of a stress-free and happier life. 
