     Happiness is a relative term that has different meanings for different people.  One school of thought believes that happiness occurs when a person pursues specific goals and dreams, and achieves them.  Another opinion is that happiness occurs when a person is focused on the happiness of others, in other words, the betterment of humanity in general.  A person finds happiness along this path, instead of focusing solely on their own happiness.

     I think that both of the above scenarios can be utilized to achieve happiness.  It is good to have a goal, and a dream, for example, working 2 jobs in order to be able to afford a house.  What should not be lost along the way is the everyday goal of improving the lives of those you encounter every day, whether it be a smile or a helping hand.  There are always those who are less fortunate than ourselves, and we need to be congnizant of that, especially when we have a bad day.  Unpleasant things are invariably going to happen to all of us, and it's important to face these challenges with determination and positivity.  Most of us can probably recall incidents in our lives where, even if we are down, we see someone in need, and are able to help with an encouraging word or a helping hand. 

     There are those who will pooh-pooh the thought that they should concentrate on anything other than their dream; also those who will think "I worked hard to get where I am today, why should I lend a hand to some deadbeat?"  This defeats the whole idea of love and charity, as stated forth in most major religions.
     Then there are those who give of themselves so completely that they suffer personally. 
     
     I think the "middle road" is the best way to go, in order to help yourself achieve a goal, but to also give others a hand along the way.  Few things in life feel as good as knowing you have helped someone who was in despair and hardship.  

     Happiness is relative anyway--to some, happiness means "safety", to others it might mean a wonderful experience, and yet to another person it means the glow you feel when you have helped another fellow human being.  I have found all of those cases to be true.    
 

     
