Everyone wants to succeed in this world, but many do not get where they want to go.  Are you a person that cooperates more, or are you a person who likes to competite?  But in this world both cooperation and competition are needed if you would like to suceed and be successful. 
    When a person is in competition with another in a work situation, they are doing everything they can to be better than the other, so you are always doing your best work. And if you are always doing your best work, then it is a given that you will suceed in everything that you do.  With always competion,  you are always changing how you are doing something, so you will always be changing your style to meet the requriements.  And in this world, change is a must. You cannot stay the same if you want to suceed.  Cooperation is also key, because you want to cooperate with your co-workers. Helping others can also help yourself feel better.  But, you can only help others so much, at some point you have to stop helping them and help yourself. Because we ourselves are the only person who become successful, another person cannot do that.  Cooperation is very helpful in this world.  But cooperation also has its setbacks as well.  When you are cooperating you are focused on a group setting, not a one on one setting.  It all depends on where you want to go. Do you want to rise and shine, or do you want to just sit on the horizon?
    Both competition and cooperation are key to to anything in this world, but coompetition will get you more in this world. Every person wants to rise and shine bright and to do that, you have to grow and change and do your very best at everything that you do. If you want to just be one person in a group, cooperate and do what everyone else is doing, but if you want to be that person who is wearing purple in a  group of grey, competite and shine like you are supposesd to. Success is not guaranteed, it is what you make it and no one can give you success. You have to grab and take it.  It boils down to this: Are you that shy person who wants to avoid people,or are you that extravert who wants to be the best in the group? 
  There are so many ways to succeed but you have to want to succeed.  You cannot just sit and wait for it to come to you. You have to work for it. And with that we are back to the question. Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by being competitive? Being competitive will get you more in this world, because you are always trying to do better than the next person. So as that person will just sit there on the horizion, you will shine way above them. Just remember to not be looking down on those below you, look straight ahead and wear that smile and shine!!   What do you think will get you more in this world? Cooperate and be in a group and disappear, or be that on person who is going to shine in that group? You can cooperate with others if you just want to get by, but if you want to be that person that everyone is talking about, competite with others and be your best self. 
