The steps to achieve true happiness have been heavily debated. Namely, some argue that to be happy, one must focus on themselves, whereas others might claim that happiness comes from focusing on things outside of themselves. I argue that true happiness comes from the latter--from being able to be of service to those around you and to the world.

When you search for happiness through acts of service, you're free from the ups and downs that come with chasing just your personal success. For instance, if the goal is a certain job, title, or status, you won't be happy if you don't have those things or if you fail to accomplish them. Whereas, when you tie happiness to things outside of yourself, the sense of fulfillment is immediate. You don't have to wait days, months, or even years. You're empowered to find happiness all the time and immediately, by just  going out and volunteering, donating, tutoring, helping your community, etc. 

Additionally, searching for happiness in this way has a multiplicative effect. When you go out and are of service to others, you create happiness in those around you that is sure to lift your own mood and level of happiness. In essence, the happiness you experience and receive multiplies in a cycle that can continue to feed itself. This leads to more sustainable happiness in the long run. This same effect is not necessarily guaranteed if you are pursuing independent, personal goals that don't benefit those around you. 

Lastly, when you focus on others in the pursuit of happiness, you might be experienced to situations and stories that give you a whole new perspective and level of gratefulness for your current life. This sense of contentment can cause you to experience more happiness with what you have--without having to make drastic changes in your life. If you tied your happiness to your own personal goals, you might not have this level of exposure or perspective, and might be in a constant state of searching, but not feeling fulfilled.

Now, some may argue that when you focus on your personal goals, you are more likely to be happy, because you are more in control of the situation and are thus better to able to achieve the outcome of a happy life. I argue though, from the examples provided above, that you ultimately have less control when you focus on personal goals. You are constrained by time, by your own personal failures, and by your small mindset and perspective. 

Overall, happiness comes from being able to step outside of yourself. It comes from being kind to yourself and not focusing on whether or not you fail or succeed. It comes from giving happiness to others and getting it back ten fold. And lastly, it comes from gaining a perspective that makes you truly grateful for what you have--so much so, that you feel like happiness isn't even something you have to search for, but something you simply uncover in your own life.
