Materialism is – and will likely continue to be – a hot topic. Many people view materialism as a bad thing. It is often criticized, and those who are considered materialistic are deemed as being vain or are seen as focusing on the wrong things. Despite this, materialism is a widespread phenomenon in our society. Most people would admit to finding enjoyment in having and spending money, especially on material items that reflect personal taste, style, or interests. The saying "money can't buy happiness" is one we have all heard, but is it truly accurate in our materialistic society? Given the breadth of materialism and the obvious benefit of having both money and material possessions, I would argue that materialism in and of itself is not inherently worthy of criticism.
Most of us would probably agree that there are plenty of important components of human life that money cannot buy, such as love and human connection. While this is true, it is naive to think that money and material possessions do not contribute to our overall wellbeing, health, and happiness. For example, an individual who is able to purchase material posessions such as weather-appropriate clothing will likely have a greater sense of happiness, comfort, and security than someone who has no choice but to brace the elements without such items. Even being able to decorate one's home with furniture and other decor that reflects one's personal tastes can provide feelings of comfort and contentment. Many people enjoy spending money on hobbies, which often involves acquiring items related to that hobby (e.g., collecting comic books). These material possessions bring us joy, give us something to which we can look forward, and allow us to express ourselves. In a world where so many of us struggle, why shame people for finding something primarly harmless that provides them with positive emotions?
Nonetheless, there are still plenty of people who criticize materialism, and they present valid arguments. Materialism does – and should – have its limits. Some take it too far, relying solely on material possessions to find joy and happiness in their lives. They are never satisfied unless they have the newest smartphone, the coolest clothes, the most exciting videogames, and so on and so forth. While acquiring these items might provide temporary happiness, they are simply never enough, and the individual is always left wanting more and seeking out the next new thing. For these people, materialism can be detrimental to their mental health, specifically with respect to their self-worth. For others, materialism may prove financially harmful. In an attempt to acquire all the material possessions they might want, people often spend money outside of their means to "afford" such items. This may result in overdrafted checking accounts or large amounts of credit card debt. In turn, these individuals might also find their mental health suffering as a result of the financial stress in which they have found themselves.
With both of these perspectives in mind, I once again assert that materialism is not inherently the issue, nor should society be criticized for placing value in material possessions. We all want, need, and enjoy such things, whether they are necessities or simply for fun. However, like all things, materialism has its limits. When unchecked, it can cause major problems for people. While it is normal to find pleasure in spending money on things that make you happy, it is important to recognize that material possessions alone cannot fulfill you. They are but one component of our lives, and while having belongings can certainly contribute to our overall wellbeing, we cannot rely solely on them to fix our problems or make us happy. Still, we all belong to and contribute to this materialistic society, and that will probably never change. It is best for us all to recognize that, accept it, and understand our own personal relationships with materialism to best assess how it impacts us personally.
