The average person is flooded with flashes of imagery and impressions on a continual basis through advertisements.  These advertisements can contain images of women, in particular, that are not truthful.  Many people who view these bombardments of images become accustomed to these images of women and believe them to be representative of the whole population in a dangerous way.  The false images create an illusion of perfection that is not attainable to the normal person.

People can hardly escape from idealistic and false advertisements that encroach upon us from commercials on televisions, ads on websites and print ads on billboards.  There are numerous images of thin, tall women meant to be the norm everywhere.  Young girls believe this is how all women grow up to look like and find out later that they fall short of this image.  Men and boys believe that the normal woman is tall and thin, but this is not the case either.  Many women will develop eating disorders or suffer from metal health issues trying to attain this supposed level of normalcy represented in the ads.

Some will argue that advertisements are used to show the best in order to sell the product.  No one wants a boring or average looking woman to represent the company brand.  Beautiful images and people attract more than boring will attract, some may state.  That may be true but it is important for everyone to acknowledge the pretty images are not representative of all.  Not everyone can be beautiful from head to toe.  Girls suffer from eating disorders in order to try and attain the thin look that is made to seem "normal."  

Companies are begininng to realize that "normal" people can sell brands just as well as unattainable visions presented with models.  A personal care company has a new advertisement launch citing beauty comes in all forms and sets the advertisements with a range of people in all shapes and sizes.  Advertising is a necessarily tool for business, but understanding how dangerous the images can be on some people need to be acknowledged as well.  The brainwashing will not stop overnight, but it is starting to occur, which is positive step in the right direction.
