Happiness is often said to be a fickle thing. It can come and go as easily as the wind but still humans enjoy the thrill of chasing after it. What makes for a happy life can often be up for debate with many gurus, religious figures, celebrities, and grandmas all weighing in. Some will say you're happiest setting goals for yourself and pursuing your dreams; other will wag their beards that happiness only comes from helping others. I personally believe there's likely a blend of both at work but I think when a person is pursuing their own dreams is likely to make them the happiest.

This seems very simple because a person knows themself very well and would be excellent at knowing what will make them happy but, yes here's the but, often the pursuit of happiness is happiness in and of itself. I recently decided to learn to crochet cute little dinosaurs because I've seen them here and there. I bought a kit and received the yarn, a hook, and instructions. The most rewarding part was not having cute little dinosaurs, though they make me smile every day, the most rewarding part was sitting down and spending the eight or so hours it took to learn this new skill. As I learned I noticed I no longer just saw an endless sea of knotted yarn when I see a crocheted piece, I now can see the individual threads and conjecture about which stitch it might be. My world is more rich because I can now see the work and efffort of not only myself but of countless humans and when crocheting I reflect how someone invented this work, someone figured out how to make a pleasing and lasting knot of yarn. I am happier not only for having learned crochet, my own personal goal, but from learning in general and broadening my horizons.

Some may argue that happiness comes from others but I'd argue pinning happiness on someone else is the surest way to eventually become unhappy. From doctors to content makers, people that work for the good of others are experiencing burnout and acknowleding their burnout in greater numbers than ever before. If happiness came solely from giving to others and bettering the world from others, these diligent humans would be the happiest of us all but they are not. They do not make time for themselves and that leads to an inablity to feel that connection to humanity and they loose what happiness they do have from helping others. Then they feel guilty for not being happy when they should be and suffer even more because they've been told this is the path to happiness. Bettering humanity alone is not a recipe for happiness even if the goal is achieved. However, if the same doctor also works on a personal goal that is rewarding even if it happens to help others like educating people about a specific health issue or working to cure a disease, those goals become a source of happiness even if they are focused on helping others because those are personal dreams. A personal dream may be to the benefit to humanity but it is ultimately still solely their goal. In this way, the hapiness of others can give a person happiness but it is often only through that personal motivation that the fulfillment is truly achieved. 

This is to say nothing of the impression that someone may be "ungrateful" for your work or help, which can contibute negative emotions to something you may otherwise find to be a positive. "You can't someone who doesn't want to be helped" is something I've heard before and it certainly rings true. If your goal is to help others but they stand in the way of your goal, that can lead to general unhappiness at large.

This shouldn't be taken to mean a person should never want to help others for their own sake, helping others is ultimately good and sometimes making a sacrifice of time or money can bring more joy to someone else than it ever would to ourselves. It's worthwhile to do because the more happiness in the world in general, the better off every human is. Dealing with random people will ultimately be easier if they're not on edge, burnout, or unhappy. This will mean fewer people are made unhappy by others. To find that deep down happiness that makes life more vibrant and more enjoyable though, that comes from the self. Finland is rated the happiest country on earth but that's not because the citizens report the most joy, it's because the citizens report the least worry and sorrow. Happiness is not the absence of these things but it can bloom more easily in that environment. A person that is burnout doesn't have the energy to make a cake they love. A person worrying about if they can make rent can't spend the time learning about comets. Happiness is in the pursuit of something personally worthwhile. I hope we can work towards a world that can enable people the opportunity to do so.
