Competition is often viewed as the best way to achieve success in the professional world, but that may be a false belief not based on any real empirical data. We are a social species, and our success in the evolutionary process has rested very heavily on our ability to cooperate with each other to figure out solutions in this world. Why would the modern world and workplace be any different?

Intense and constant competition may benefit some people; those who thrive in a stressful environment, those who find thrill in facing up against their fellow man. But this style of workplace environment, a highly competitive one, only serves to ostracize those who don't feel energized by the compatition. In contrast, it may actually end up hurting progress and success. People with a creative, empathetic mindset might feel hurt and dissuaded by an environment that is too competitive - they don't want to fight with their fellow man, they want to use their thoughts and ideas for the bettermant of all!

The entirety of human progress has been built on what came before - the invention of modern electronics, of the computer that this essay is being written on, did not spring full-formed out of the mind of a single individual. It started with the first person to even dream that something like a computer could be possible, started with minds like Nicola Tesla and Alan Turing, individuals who saw the potential in electricity and electronics and the ability to automate the processes of life. And these discoveries were built on over the generations, becoming more complex as time went on, until where we are now, walking around with the equivalent of super computers in our pockets at all times. 

All of this was possible due to cooperation. No man is an island, the successes of the modern era would not be possible if we only ever fought each other and did not cooperate to achieve a greater goal.

Conflict and competition only stand to exclude people with bright minds and bright ideas who don't thrive under pressure. How do we, as a species, benefit when we exclude some very intelligent individuals because they may not be the most eloquent of public speakers? Who are uncomforable with competition? Who may not be as quick of wit so lose in a verbal debate, but on paper may work with their fellows to create something new and wonderful?
 
The answer is we don't. We don't benefit. Competition survives in the modern world, the corporate world, because the entire system is set up to suck the energies and intelligence and time and life from their workers and funnel all profits to the top. If the bottom tier is fighting all the time, they won't have the energy to look up and realize that their fellow man isn't what is holding them back, but the boot on their neck from the top tier of society. So the top tier fosters competition in those who have less social power to keep them ignorant and help control the masses.

If we, as a people and society, could learn to work together in a way that lifts everyone up, instead of keeping the masses down and putting a small few on a pedestal, we would be much better off, both as a society and individually, instead of concentrating wealth in the hands of a few elites and endlessly causing stress and hardship for the rest of the population. Follow what has made our species for the entire history of our species and work together, and we might truly achieve something magnificent.
