We are currently deep in the digital age.  Everywhere we look, there are images being promoted to sell products, push ideas, make points, and enable people to get their own image "out there."  So the question is asked, "Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?"  Yes, it is this writer's belief that images and impressions have too much of a negative effect and it can be deterimental is not controlled.  
The effect can be deterimental because seeing the images makes people immune to what the image is actually depicting.  Take for example, an image showing a thin swimsuit model, the ad is trying to sell the swimsuit.  However, when looking at it, men and women may see only the model.  Men may think about if they could be with the model or if their significant other looked like the model.  Women would think they may need to look like the model and try to picture themselves in the advertisement.  People focus on the people in advertisements not the product. While it is helpful to see people using the product, it is not helpul for the main focal point to be the person in the advertisement. This is detrimental thinking that continues to hurt the self-image of people and society.   
While the argument can stand that the advertisers are not responsible for the self-esteem or thoughts of the people looking at the ad, it would be better if advertisements depicted the small, average, overweight, differently-abled models as well.  More can be done to focus on the product rather than the people using the product.  Advertisements need to be all-inclusive in order to show society that everyone is unique.  People do not come in one shape, size, color, or ability.
In conclusion, while images and impressions have too much of a negative effect on people, people can change their thought processes.  This includes the companies that create the advertisements.  Thinking outside the box and thinking of the actual people of all ages  who may see these ads, we can create images and impressions that have a positive effect on people.  
