With the rise of social media, people have become their own public relations departments.  This is great for those of us who do not have positions of power but who would like to promote ourselves the things we'd like to share.  It can allow an individual a platform to share a resume or a craft or piece of art they'd like to sell.  However, it can also allow people who are already in disparate positions of power to advertise themselves as something they are not.  Social media allows for politicians, entertainers, and other public figures to advertise themselves in clever ways that the immediate viewer or audience member may be unable to distinguish from genuine content.  This has lead to a rise of the promotion of mediocre, incompetent, or even fraudulent public figures because what the audience sees is far different and even sometimes completely at odds with the values, talents, and abilities of the person sharing the content.  We may come to a point in the future when public figures should be held accountable to their advertisements so that they are required to present an appearance synonamous with the images they are sending to the public - especially in the case of elected officials. While false advertisement laws do exist, we are still seeing a rise of harmful false images that are outside the scope of that legal protection. 

Do you remember Kyrsten Sinema's run for congress? Kyrsten represented herself as a Democrat or at the very least a slightly liberal centrist.  Her public content, her social media, her appearances on podcasts and TV shows all showed her representing herself as someone who would upset the status quo of a congressional body filled with aging white men.  Kyrsten presented herself as someone who had liberal values, especially socially.  She's an openly bisexual unmarried woman who used colorful outfits, talk about moderate policy reform, and dramatic hair color changes to appeal to younger voters.  While she was honest that some policies would not work at this time (she said she was for healthcare reform but didn't believe large scale universal healthcare would be possible in her term) she seemed to favor positive change that could lead to future improvements while at the same time not alienating conservative voters. Believing that she shared their values, voters elected her to office.  Once situated firmly in a position of power, Kyrsten began and continued to vote against policies that she promoted during her electoral run.  She's proven herself to be far more conservative than advertised.  When her voters attempt to call her out on it she avoids them, even ducking into stairwells and running away from journalists.  Would this have happened if she'd been held to stricter advertising standards?  Probably not.  The image Krysten projected is at odds with the work she is doing as a public figure and it's harmful not only to her immediate constituents but also to the rest of the country, which she is failing to properly represent. She's no different than the old school politicians she claimed she'd be replacing, clearly in bed with lobbyists and only interested in her own wellbeing. 

On a less dramatic but certainly wide reaching note, let's focus on influencers on platforms such as Instagram and the impact they have on young people who consume their content.  Any person claiming to be an expert can share an image of their perfect flawless skin or their beautiful homes, and use those images to sell products or ideas that can turn out to be harmful.  Because we live in an age where image manipulation is as easy as downloading a free app, anyone can filter out their acne and use that false image to sell useless or even dangerous supplements or creams to people desperate to cure their own acne.  

Is this the fault of the person who failed to use common sense when viewing the image?  Should consumers be canny enough to do some research before voting or purchasing products?  Sure!  But on the other hand, not everyone has the mental capacity to do so.  And increasingly younger consumers are able to view these images and purchase these products.  We can't expect a 14 year old to have the same ability to spot a scam that we would expect a 40 year old to have.  And when a 14 year old is groomed by fake products, gurus, and political ads, they grow up to be adults who are either harmed by these notions they've been fed as children, or they grow into adults who consistently are fooled by false images and advertisements because they don't know any better.  After all, how do you sort fact from fiction when you've grown up on a steady diet of fiction presented as truth?  

False images and impressions have too much of an impact on people, not just in the immediate moment when we purchse those low quality Amazon brand sweatpants but also long term, when we are fed false images of a prosperous country by politicians who are driving it into the ground and so we continue to vote against our own best interests.  
