It is often said that we should not judge a book by it's cover, but maybe we should in some cases. With flashy advertisements, clickbait and headlines made to grab your attention infecting our everyday lives, it's important that we remain vigilant against these things we see.

With advertisements no longer truly speaking on the quality of their product and instead just having a loud and in-your-face yet empty message, we find it difficult to to not pay attention to them, even if the attention isn't full. Politicans and public figures also do this, every time Kim Kardashian or Kanye West says anything, there are hundreds of articles written about them, often with what they said taken entirely out of context. However, despite this, we still pay attention, again, even if the attention isn't full. Why might this be common in corporate America and even the rest of the world? Simply because there is money to be made. Online, clicks equal dollars. The more time someone spends on a page the more advertisements they are exposed to. The more often someone is exposed to an advertisement the more likely they are to buy the advertised product. The more time someone thinks about Kim or Kanye the more likely they are to watch their show or buy their music or makeup.

But is this really a problem? Maybe it isn't. Can you blame advertisers for taking advantage of the platforms they have? Afterall, you need people buying your product or service to pay your bills, and these advertisers, entertaines and even politicians are no different. Or at least that is what they would like you to think. However, it is easy to know better. We who are exposed to this nonsense are often times the ones struggling to keep the bills paid. While the advertisers and others live lavishly, their trash is thrown in our face and we still buy it.

So maybe it is a time to judge a book by its cover, if a person is loud and in-your-face you likely wouldn't care to spend time around them. We may have to adjust our initials judgements though to be adapted to modern life in corporate America. If the book's cover is loud and flashy, simply walk away, ignore the product and if possible, even refuse to buy it. Though it will take time, eventually, these advertisers and figureheads will get the message as it will reach them in the only language they know, money.

