Happiness can come from many sources, but I believe it comes from focusing on goals outside of yourself. Knowing you are helping another leads to a much more fulfilling life. When focusing on spreading happiness to others, you may forget about your own problems, you may stop nitpicking at your own perceived faults, and instead find a sense of contentedness to know you are where you're supposed to be in life. 

What would you feel more fulfilled by; buying a needy child a toy at Christmas because their family cannot afford one or achieving your goal of saving $1000 for a new laptop? If you were to see a child's face light up upon receiving something so rarely given, would you still be thinking, "Man, I really wish I had that laptop right now"? In those moments of seeing another's happiness, you can revel in it without worry. You can stay mindful of the present moment. You don't have to think about scrimping and saving and escaping your financial stress. So in that moment, your happiness and fulfillment is being fed by another's. 

Many people find faults in themselves. We beat ourselves up for various qualities we carry, most of them being not the least bit important. Humans generally have a need to be well-liked and fit in amongst their peers. The pressure is great to keep pace with others, especially when we're young adults just starting our careers, getting married, buying houses, and creating families of our own. When you aim your efforts to cultivate a great life for yourself outside of reaching your personal goals, you can find wonderful qualities in yourself. Maybe you're generous. Maybe you're kind. Maybe you're a good support to those that need you most. You find yourself feeling valued and that leads to happiness.

Those that stand opposite to this idea that happiness comes from improving the lives of others often think of their goals as a source of pride. This is not wrong, you should take pride in your hard work as great achievments always come with great stress; however, we don't always reach our goals. As previously stated, humans are rather negative towards themselves. When we fail, we obsess over it and have a hard time moving forward. We begin to get down on ourselves and struggle to find motivation to move forward. When focusing only on reaching your own goals to achieve happiness, you're also bringing the baggage of focusing on your failures too. Being frustrated with yourself, anxious about reaching your goals, or overwhelmed by a set back is the antithesis of happiness. 

When people are most content and happy, it is when they are sharing joy amongst their peers. It's when they are feeling valued and fulfilled. It's when they feel like they have a rightful place amongst the populace and they are not ahead or behind. Focusing only on achieving your goals does not allow for a feeling of being valued as you are not taking into consideration any others' feelings about you, therefore finding happiness in reaching personal goals is often frought with stress and negativity. Instead of spending a day shopping for your new, well-earned laptop, consider picking up a action figure for the little boy across the street from your house. It'll bring a smile to both his face and yours. 
