In today's capitalistic society, we often praise competition as the only way that new and innovative ideas can be discovered and accomplished. It is a consequence of everything capitalism and everything money ruling our world: people think that if they're better than others, they'll receive more satisfactory results in whatever they are trying to accomplish. However, this is merely a consequence of capitalism's iron grip on the world at large. In actuality, methods of cooperation are much healthier for humans, therefore more successful than methods of competition in the long run. 

Humans are inherently social creatures. Through positive social interactions, we bond, form relationships, and enjoy an overall better quality of life. When competitiveness is introduced, suddenly humans turn against each other. Tasks are completed not to help out the fellow human and reach a new level of understanding, but instead to simply beat the other person and enjoy the spoils of victory alone. Once this is done, relationships can break down. People can lose meaningful bonds when competitiveness is introduced, because competitiveness only focuses on the winner, not the relationship between two people, nor the task at hand. With cooperation, however, two or more people can work towards the same goal and lift each other up in the process. Instead of feeling burned or an overwhelming sense of self pride from the experience, people can focus on what is best for the task at hand and bounce ideas off of one another. When everyone is working towards the same goal, there is more focus on whatever is being worked on, rather than simply beating the other person or team. 

Some people may argue that competitiveness guarantees the existence of a better product, due to the fact that people are always trying to improve on already existing ideas. This is easily refuted by the idea that the improvement of already existing ideas does not necessarily need to be viewed as competitive. There is a difference in trying to win and trying to improve upon what has already been done for the betterment of everyone. You can still make something that is better without competing. Some people may also argue that competitiveness gives incentives for people to work. However, competition is not the only incentive that exists. The emotional response from postively working with others is just as rewarding as "winning a competition." One is just simply perpetuated more in our society due to the ever-existing iron fist of capitalism. It is just as easy to be nice to your fellow human as it is to beat them in a competition -- and in the long run, you nurture more positive relationships with them.

In conclusion, it is more rewarding to cooperate with someone on a task than it is to be competitive. This is due to the fact that competition does not exist for the betterment of the task or product, but simply to beat another person. When cooperation is involved, everyone is focusing on the task at hand and how it can be made better. The only reason that competitiveness is seen as a positive trait in our society is because that is the method in which capitalism works best. 
