Materialistic used to be a word used to describe money hungry women. This day in age it describes EVERYONE. Modern society's materialism is a whole different ballgame in itself. Everyone HAS to have te newest of any and everything, by any means they deem necessary.
Modern Society's materialism stems from poverty. If you grew up in poverty all you wanted to be and do was not be impoverished. If you grew up riding bikes or public transportation you HAVE to have a car. If you grew up with hand me downs or too little clothes you are going to have a wardrobe out of this world! If your shoes were torn, dirty, or even too little you may develop a shoe fetish. Should we be criticized for our materialism this day in age? Yes and no.
Yes, being materialistic is very shallow, but, being judgemental is too. You can see a person with a nice car and it will make you want to get yourself a nice car. However, you aren't stopping to think: What did they have to do to get that nice car? What did they have to sacrifice? Why THAT specific car? You see a woman dressed to the nines from head to toe. You give her a compliment and she smiles and says 'thank you'. You dont think all the way back to her childhood and see her in the dirty, too little clothes and shoes to understand why she HAS to dress nice. Whats under that make up?
So, we can all point the finger to criticize but, we have to look at the whole diamond, not just the part that shines. You can judge people for who they are but, it'll just create a cycle of negativity and judements that are unneccessary. It's easy to say you're nice and understanding but, human emotions are real. 
Criticizem can be both good and bad. There are two sides to every story. Salt looks like sugar. Before, you judge someone else try to be empathetic. Materialism is not the real problem here; its the judgement that follows. Sure, people that are materialistic are looked at asshallow and superficial but, like babies and children, they were taught how to be like that. 
Should we be criticized? Yes. Can we take the criticizem? No. Human emotions are not wired to accept anything we have perceived as negative. Its not what you say, but, how you say it. I can call my close friend a 'bitch' and when she responds she is not responding to the word itself, she is responding to the tone of my voice. She will respond to the context in which the word was said.
When we are criticizing people, positive and negative, their human emotions kick in and battle with yours to be 'right'. To be the victor of he debacle. But, it is not about who is right or wrong. It's about gaining and understanding. 
I grew up in the inner city and I went to school with a lt of people. Some of those people came to school with dirty uniforms, dirty shoes, hair not kept, no backpack, and sometimes, they even had a stinch to them. Fast forward to now and they are CLEAN as a whistle EVERYTIME you see them. They broke the cycle. Those of them that have children make sure those children dont wanr for anything. They keep them up to par. 
We have been designed to be materialistic. Don't get mad at it, its human nature. You don't have to embrace it, either.
Materialism and shallowness are two character traits that are a definite no-no in relation to ANY relationshihp. It will make you end a friendship or relationship very quickly. You could try and be understanding and work with the person thru their issues. You dont have to do that part either, tho. But, are you better than a person who is materialistic? No. Do you have to be materialistic to befriend or have a relationship with a materialistic person? No. But, you don''t have to waste the energy it takes to be judgemental, either.
Should we be criticized? Yes, simply to be understanding, not to be judgemental. It's hard to live right in this sinful world, but, I wouldn't want to keep adding sins to my own sin list just because my neighbor has a nicer car or a better job. They worked for it. How can you feel any type of negative emotions about what someone else has or does? Love one another, and yourself.
