Materialism has been found in societies all over the globe, and since the dawn of time. Materialism, along with coveting, could be the main source of evil in the world: I want what you have, and I am going to get it, regardless. There are a many ways to examine materialism, but we will look through a religious lens, and mental health lens, and a satisfaction lens.  As a modern society, we should look down on materialism and criticize the way items are viewed and upheld, as they create a way of life that places items above God, the create depression and anxiety, and even create an environment that may never be conducive to satisfaction. 

In the religious world, materialism is almost considered the antithesis of some religions. Placing the value that one holds in an item above Gods, is usually blasphemous. Religions often teach the spare time, money, energy, etc., should be used toward the church and for God's work, not to greedily purchase eveything that one thinks he or she desires. From a mental health standpoint, our society places status and value on the things that we do or do not have. With that being said, if certain items are not attained, some people feel they are failing. With each financial setback, people can become more and more depressed and anxious. The reality is, most needs are met, but we are left coveting the items that society says we "must" have. The final point, satisfaction, goes along with both other items: religion and anxiety/depression. Satisfaction is who heartedly knowing that one is happy or content with the life he or she is living. Satisfaction comes when we realize our basic needs are met and the things we "want" do not control or consume us. 

Some might argue that materialism and gaining items and luxuries cause satisfaction; but, in my experience the satisfaction from a wordly item is typically short-lived. Love, faith, peace, and laughter are items that I have found to bring me true satisfaction. We already live in a society where worldy pocessions and happines trump all faith and happiness from a religious perspective. These true human emotions are what will bring true happiness: not money or material. 
