Modern society should absolutely be criticized for being materialistic. Our constant, cyclic obsession with purchasing, consuming, purchasing, and consuming nonstop will be the death of our values. We devote our entire lives to earning enough income to support this vile obsession, particularly in the United States. Nowadays, people rent entire independent storage units just to contain possessions which will not fit inside their homes. With the advent of McMansions in Midwestern American suburbs to absurd, wasteful fashion trends to the desire to own NFTs (sometimes purely for the sake of ownership!), we are on a path of destruction. We sacrifice quality time which could better be spent in meditation, self-reflection, personal enjoyment, and quality time with loved ones instead in the chase of money and work to support this obsession. We spend endless amounts of time mindless browsing and scrolling on shopping platforms such as Amazon (which now offers same-day shipping with literally one click!), meaning there is progressively increasing convenience in acquiring items and progressively fewer barriers to stop us from doing so.

To play devil's advocate, however, not all materialism, is malicious. It often begins innocently with the concept of the "Scarcity Mindset". Sometimes, people who grew up less fortunate or in poverty, for example, have been shown to have increasing tendencies towards hoarding material possessions, buying in bulk, having a difficult time letting go of items, and perceiving the possession of material items as a view of financial success, stability, and societal status. In these cases, though the materialism stems from oppression and more from situation rather than choice, modern society should still be criticized for supporting the pursuit of materialism. We should have better support structures so aid our fellow humans in re-directing their values and efforts to a more fruitful pursuit, such as exploring a new hobby, spending quality time doing something they enjoy, etc.

Materialism should also be criticized because it fuels adverse climate change and global warming. The production of endless material items promotes the building of more factories, use of unethical labor including child labor, release of harmful carbon emissions, consumption of energy and resources including non-degradable plastic packing, fuel for transport, and use of national wealth which could have gone to strengthening other aspects of government and society. It is no secret that climate change is occurring, but it can absolutely be argued that more material societies are causing a higher magnitude of increase in the degree of global climate change. This is unfair to humans living in other countries who have to live with the severe environmental impact, and unfair to our future generations of children who will inherit this planet in shambles due to our current society's greed and materialism.

Nowadays, some movements opposing this chase of materialism and supporting the concept of minimalism are emerging. Perhaps one of the better-known examples is Marie Kondo's philosophy, which supports decluttering in the name of simplifying our lives not just physically, but also mentally. The idea is, this will promote personal inner peace and better support a more sustainable society. Given that modern society is veering towards increasing materialism, modern society should increase our dialogue and have more conversations about this, rather than just accepting materialism as a necessary source of happiness. The constant pursuit of happiness via materialism will never achieve true, absolute happiness. There are absolutely more meaningful ways society can live without being materialistic.
