Cooperation, a word that means working together to achieve a common goal. Typically, the word cooperation is meant to be used in how two people work together and compromise to solve an issue. It is sometimes seen as giving up part of oneself to work together with the other person. The opposite of cooperation, competition, is typically seen as a better method to combat the compromise needed for cooperation, which would then speed up the process and increase the drive to work harder. This could not be farther from the truth.  Cooperation does include compromise, however, the end goal for the people working together is always the same and everyone benefits from the outcome of the goal instead of just a select few who were top preformers. Therefore, only ideas are compromised, not the gratification nor the reward. Cooperation is a better tool for pushing groups towards a common achieveable goal than competition beacause cooperation provides lasting accomplishments, mitigates the lack of effort from some involved, solidifies relationships between teammate, and boosts work effectiveness and quality.

Cooperation is much more likely to produce lasting accomplishments and gratification for the whole group. This is due to everyone in the group feeling a sense of accomplishment upon the achievement of the goal. Competition does not allow for everyone in the group to feel this sense of gratification as there are only a select few winners that were top preformers. This causes the people who strived to work as hard as they could, but did not meet the mark, to feel left out and unsatisfactory. This could lead to a lower work preformance in the future. Cooperation allows for everyone to feel a sense of accomplishment and therefore boosts self esteem and raises future work preformance. 

With competition, the only person effected by the achievement of the end goal is the sole competitor. However, with cooperation, everyone is effected by the end goal. This drives people to work together as a team to solve the goal. If there are people within the group that are not pulling their weight, it is usually mitigated by those that are putting in more effort than needed and evens out. People are also more likely to work towards a goal when they know that their efforts are not only effecting themselves, but their teammates as well. 

Cooperation solidifies relationships and comradery between teammates. It allows for the sharing of ideas and experiences when working towards a common goal. This builds trust between teammates, allowing them to rely on each other's ideas more and push themselves towards the goal. Competition, on the other hand, relies on mistrust between competitors despite the fact that they share a common goal. This slows down progress as ideas are not being shared between competitors. Due to this, some will remain stagnant in their goals and others will excell. This does not even out as it would with cooperation. This means that some employees are thriving towards their workplace goals and some are doing very poorly. When employees cooperate, they are given the opportunity to all succeed. 

Many companies have been implementing cooperation and competition in the work place to achieve goals for a very long time. Companies push their salesmen to compete with one another to get higher sales amounts where the winner is promised bonuses, raises, and promotions. However, if only one or two people are using the most effective tools, then only a percentage of employees are working effectively. When employees cooperate, they are more likely to share ideas that better the group or company as a whole. In turn, this drives up preformance of all employees instead of a select few. It effectively works as a training excercise that lower preforming employees can then take and apply to personal goals within the workplace. 

Competition and cooperation are both valid methods for multiple people to achieve a goal. However, competition allows for one winner whose ideas are not shared and distributed amongst the rest of the workplace and discourages trust between coworkers. This is why cooperation is a much better tool in the workplace as encourages trust and idea sharing, mitigates preformance and/or effort discrepancies, and boosts work effectiveness and quality. 
