       Being happy is a goal that most people in the world aim for. Celbrities are often seen as being happy because they reach a lot of people and have meaningful purpose in life because they are pursing their dreams. Pursuing a dream can lead to happiness because that dream is one that the individual has for themselves. Happiness comes in many different forms from personal happiness and happiness that comes from others attention, love, or respect. True happiness can only be obtained from when a person focuses on their own personal goals. Happiness can only come from within. A person can only be happy when they truly make themselves happy first. 

      To begin, personal happiness comes from being happy with who you are. This can only be achieved by a person's personal acomplishments. For instance, a person that strives and advances in their career can only achieve happiness when they reach their personal goal for themselves. For example, Oprah Winfrey is a person that helps others in her life but her true happiness comes from her own accomplishments for what she wanted out of life. A person has to find happiness within themselves and it cannot come from anyplace else.

      Also, people who work to help others often do not feel fulfillment for those actions. For example, a person that works as a nurse helps others but may not be fulifilled in their career. A nurse may have aspirations as a writer or something else that would make them happy. Happiness can only come from within. 

      Furthermore, there are people that take care of family members and are worn down and are unhappy from these expereinces. It is only when people take time for themselves do they realize what makes them happy. For instance, I have a cousin that is miserable taking care of her elderly mother. Even though she is taking care of her mother, she is still unhappy. Pursuing a person's dreams may make them happy even when they are focused on others.
      Similarly, one may find that the president of the United States, may feel happy because they are doing things that better humanity as a whole. However, often times, Presidents are not happy with their postion in power but feel burdoned and unhappy because of the weight that responsibilities often carry.

     In contrast to people that say happiness can come from helping others. There are people that are doctors and lawyers that help others in their most critical time of need. These people are often thanked many times for the help that they provide. I do think that they feel some kind of joy from life but that their own happiness comes from their family, friends, and things that happen outside of what they do. Most of these people in these professions are only happy when they find love, have children, or become director of the board of their hospital. Helping others does not lead to happiness.

     In conclusion, people are more likely to be happy when they focus on their personal growth. When a person focuses on what they truly want in life they are rewarded because they have fulfilled what in life they really wanted. There are times when people do not know what their dreams may be but the journey to fullfilling those dreams are what keeps them moving forward in life. it is great to help others but only that person can find their own personal happiness.
