          Materializm is something we all of share in from the time we are a little child to an adult.  We want the most expensive toys that come out on the market no matter how much it cost.  Our children have to have the newest electronics because all of their friends have which puts presure on them to do the same. If we see our neighbor family gets a new car and our children see that and push us to get a new car so we wouldn't look poor.  

Also, we are being judged on buying a big car over a small car because it shows people have money to burn is what they say around town. It may depend on why you go the bigger cars or trucks to make a living from.  Some people want everything that is new and it has all the bells and whistles on they have to have even if their older gadgets work fine. 

Once a person finds out what stuff is really worth by needing the money by going to the pawn shop.  A person finds out quickly that they have wasted their money in the first place.  In my opinion buying a lot of expensive stuff doesn't make you better then anyone else. Right now gas is really high and people are still spending too much money on gasoline engine cars because that what they have done for over a hunderd years and counting. 

Now we have electric cars they are cheaper to run but it costs more insurance and car payments for a cheap priced Testla to own is around $732.oo a month and car insurance is higher then normal. On the other hand to charge Testla cost $3- 7 dollars for charges.

Modern society will always be criticized for being materialistic because this is how people judge each other by how many toys they own and how much money they have left over.  Since money lost it's value people have less to spend on luxury items and now more on gasoline prices coming to an all time high of $7.00 up on a gallon of gas in California.  

People would pay more for gas and cut back on buying stuff to keep their cars on the road.  If more people would not drive as much the price of gas would go down because less people would be buying it. This called suppy and demand.

