Buying the newest iPhones, upgrading your car every few years, paying for one-time-use clothing for an Instagram photo--it's safe to say that our society revolves around things, and not values. Radio ads, movies, even our internet usage, encourages us to buy more, more more, with the unspoken promise that we'll be happier once we've bought the item. Regardless of whether or not we will be happier, is this materialism something to be ashamed of? Should our society crack down on materialism and return to traditional values? I argue that, thanks to the effects of the financial crisis in America, the recent pandemic, and the impossibility of the American Dream, that materialism is not something to be ashamed of.

The stock market has crashed. Gas prices are rising. Inflation is out of control. Yet even still, Americans are buying--check the reviews on Amazon. Many of them say, "Tiktok told me to buy it!" Our leisure time is turning into shopping time. Many people might think that is not a good thing, but I disagree. When you can't afford gas, sometimes it's nice to purchase something to brighten up your space. We are always searching for a good deal, and don't we deserve to be happy, even during a financial crisis? Some may say that leisure time should be spent improving oneself by reading, doing art, or practicing a sport. I disagree. Leisure time should whatever makes one happy, and if shopping makes someone happy, even temporarily, it can only be a positive. And, a potential bonus, shopping stimulates the economy.

The covid-19 pandemic that struck the world drastically changed shopping practices. Many communities couldn't even allow people outside; where were they supposed to shop for essentials and luxuries both? Shopping (along with entertainment) veered heavily online. Shopping lists, influencers hawking products, and Tiktoks recommending certain products popped up everywhere. And with nothing else to do, we became even more materialistic than before. Shopping was easy, fun, and took people's minds off the pandemic. I believe that the increase in materialism was merely a coping mechanism for dealing with the immense stress, pressure, and grief that came along with the pandemic. Critics will say that shopping provides little to no long-term relief, but I argue that even a temporary lift in such external stressors allows for us to survive and thrive. Anything that helps our mental mindset is a positive. 

The American Dream of pulling oneself up by one's bootstraps is impossible, of course. You can't actually pull yourself up by your bootstraps. And that has disillusioned millions. Our healthcare is too expensive, communities are suffering from racist policies, gun violence is on the rise. Where is the dream we were sold? To that end, many younger Americans have become almost nihilistic, or "black-pilled" as the internet calls them. They simply don't care. What's the point of anything, they say. Who cares if someone insults you for being materialistic? The world is on fire and climate change is killing animals and there's nothing an individual can do about it. So sure, why not buy that cute purse on Amazon? With this mindset, where materialism has no meaning, there is nothing to be either proud or ashamed of. Some may say that nihilism is no reason to become materialistic, but again, I see materialism here as something that does nothing wrong. It is not inherently bad or good.

To conclude, materialism does more good than bad. It stimulates our economy and helps us deal with grief and stress. It has no inherent "bad" connotation. It simply is the practice of acquiring items. And what is wrong with that? As long as you practice it in moderation, there is nothing wrong with materialism.
