The topic of how happiness is obtained is truly complex. Specifically, there is a viewpoint that people will become happy if they focus on themselves. However, there is also the stance that people feel happy when other people around them are happy. Both of these perspectives make sense, but there seems to be a clear answer.

It is more likely that someone will be happy if they foucs on their own goals. This is because if someone is only happy if the people around them are happy, then their goal is to make other people happy. This means that that person's personal goal is have other people be happy. On the other hand, there are people who only feel happy when they reach a goal that they either set for themselves or when they think about what they have achieved.

At the end of the day, the only way that people feel "happy" is when they like the outcome of something. If someone likes the outcome to be a certain way, that means it was their goal all along to have it that way, regardless of if they set their personal goal to be that. There are many times that people feel a random jolt of excitement / happiness. This could be a result of someone's personal goal being reached, even if they did not set that achievement.

An example of when people are often happy is during the holidays. Everyone is happy because of personal goals. People are happy because they get to meet up with friends / families that they may have not seen in a long while. When they finally meet their friends and families, they talk to them and want to know how they are doing. This is where the happiness comes from, knowing that your close friends and families are doing well and that they are happy as well. This is a personal goal because you are personally setting the goal of making your friends and family members happy. In addition, there are also people who get presents and are happy because they are receiving something. This is also a personal goal of the person receiving a present, they are getting what they expected, gifts and presents. 

In conclusion, the controversy of the source of happiness is often debated. However, when the topic is dived into, we see that more people are happy if they focus on their person goals. This is because personal goals can and often does encompass the happiness of others. 


