Happiness I beleive, comes from helping your fellow man and in helping them acheive happiness, you become happy. Helping others brings comfort, confidence, empathy, self-worth, and respect. By helping others we can see things from a different point of view and appreciate our own blessings more. Although some say focusing on yourself and your own goals brings them the most happiness, I feel that benefiting society benefits me and my goals in the long run. I will try my best to persuade you to accept my view as the most accurate depiction of attaining happiness.

A wise man once said by helping others you help yourself. I tend to agree with him. By helping others and in turn helping society brings joy beyond belief. The satisfaction of accomplishing the tasks others need help with to be happy themselves makes me happy. Also happiness is contagious and if you make someone happy likely you will become happy as well. The advancement of humanity provided by things like delivery services would not be as profound if not for the delivery companies interest in customer satisfaction.  Likewise the success of ride-share companies is highly dependent on making customers happy.

The happiness felt when you help someone in need is incredible. Even something as small as buying a cup of coffee for a co-worker can have great effects. The joy brought by helping your friend move or picking up your siblings from school and watching them until your parents get home is not something to be sneezed at. Cleaning outdoor spaces and waterways is another great way to make yourself happy while benefitting society. You could also volunteer at a local community center or school to make a difference and be happy. The options are endless. 

Some may say that focusing on yourself and your own personal goals is the true path to happiness. I can understand how they may feel that way. Finishing tasks and meeting goals can make one happy but it does not compare to the jubilation felt working for the common good. When people come together and work towards their dreams the feeling is incomparable.
Being selfish and ignoring the pleas of others to advance yourself is not the way to pursue happiness in my opinion. 

In conclusion I find that happiness is felt most when everyone is working together towards making each other happy. Being happy on a consistent basis is dependent on your mindset and your commitment to the betterment of life for everyone. You can see for yourself next time you have a chance to make someone else happy how it makes you feel. I bet you will feel happier than before. I'm sure you remember a time somebody focused on your happiness instead of their own and they were still happy themselves most likely more happy than before. Doing what you can for others when you can is what it is all about. Help and be happy!
