The concept of materialism has changed over the course of the past few decades. The definition is the same, getting material items and spending money for thse material items. However, in the modern world, we have more access to things, we have more time for hobbies, and we have a larger network of people we care about. This was not always the case in history, therefore materialism was held to different, more negative, regard.

Due to the fact that mass production is more readily available now than it was fifty or a hundred years ago, material possessions are more easily aquired and can cost less than they did when things had to be made by hand by masters and apprentices. People have less need to weigh the pros and cons of "is this worth my money" or "what do I need to sacrifice in order to obtain this item?" In modern society, people can pay their rent and still have access to extra funds to spend on whatever they desire. 

People have more time for hobbies in the modern society. Although they still have to work in order to pay bills, such as rent and utilities, though there is still extra time in their days to do things they enjoy beyond work. Many people now are turning their hobbies, various forms of art, into their jobs. They make items or take orders for commissions and earn a living that way. If not for the modern materialism ideals, these people would not be able to make their living.

Technology has made it simpler to keep connected with loved ones regardless of the distance between them. Often times, especially in instances when people have to be apart, gifts are shared, items that make one person think of another. Sometimes, these material items even turn into family heirlooms, which have generally been seen as items that hold immense sentimental value. 

Materialism was at one point in history seen as a selfish habby of lonely people. In the modern world, it has transformed to be more of an inclusive hobby. Connecting loved ones and supporting each other in times of hardship. Materialism is still a hard aspect for people to accept, though it is becoming more acceptable. Collectors, hobbyists, friends and families all use it to express themselves and their love. Materialism should certainly stop being viewed so critically.
