People are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals. A person cannot be truly happy with others, if they themselves have not found their own path of happiness.  Finding their own happiness means finding something to accomplish, something that increases their own self worth and makes them feel good about themselves. 
If a person spends all of their time fixating on others and what they do or how to make others happy, then they will find themselves mostly miserable and unfullfilled. A person cannot find happiness in others, if they first do not seek happiness within themselves for themselves. In this way, happiness truly is an inside job. We cannot rely on others to make us happy. I do believe though that unhappiness can stem from the way others treat us. It is something that I, myself, struggle with. I find it hard to feel happiness if someone in my life is treating me in ways that upset me and make me feel unhappy. 
Some people believe that happiness comes from their interactions with others. They believe that a person is only truly happy when they have done things to help others in their happiness journey. The happiness for these people comes from the happiness that they feel they contribute to humanity when they help others. Helping others can either be monetary through donations or collections, or it could be through doing physical work for them or perhaps just being there for them mentally and emotionally. In this way, their are people that completely tie their happiness to other people. They seem to only feel happy or fullfilled if the people around them are happy. 
Really, though a person cannot pour into others if they themselves are empty and void of happiness. Happiness in life truly starts with oneself. A person has to find out what it is that they need in life and what journey they need to be on to bring happiness for themselves. In being happy themselves, they are better able to be present to help and serve others, thus maintaining their own happiness while helping others. 

