From the first trade of a stick for a rock, the human race has engaged in commerce in some shape or form. Whether it be utilizing a barter system or a more regulated currency format, people have always wanted 'stuff.' At the heart of an argument over materialism lies the question of, is it wrong to want more than one should need? The answer to this question is that yes, today's society is quite over-materialistic and should be called on the carpet as such. I also want to note that this is not a global issue to the best of my knowledge, and to that extent we will focus on the American society.
An overused but accurate argument about materialism is the inequality of the rich vs. the poor. There are numbers of anecdotal stories about those who part with their wealth just to try and improve the lives of others less fortunate. Conversely, it is many a time that we hear of people who are so money and stuff-focused that they end up financially wealthy, but physically and socially alone.
Another criticism of materialism is that it shifts the worth of anything to its extrinsic value only, thus reducing the emotional value of experience and acquisitions. In a sense, this is similar to chasing the addiction high of drugs, gambling, etc. in that the person acquiring is constantly trying to feel the way they once did in spending and buying their 'stuff.'
Arguments against criticizing materialism include private citizenship, politics/patriotism, and capitalism. First, proponents of materialism state that the private citizen should be allowed the privacy to acquire as they wish. However, the actions of a private citizen have public repercussions and are a part of the overall society.
Second, there are those who state that criticizing materialism is unpatriotic as part of the American way is excess. What this argument ignores is that this is not a core concept of American living; one could argue that the era of excess really did not begin until the advent of the credit card in the 1960s, and ballooned in the 1980s. The final argument is that capitalism is built on buying. This argument is somewhat flawed in that capitalism is built on the opportunity for free markets and personal choice, not simply the ability to buy everything.
In conclusion, the ability for commerce, while creating explosive opportunity for societal growth, also created explosive opportunity for overuse.
