There are many ways that one can focus on happiness. It may come from the pursuit of ones own dreams and goals. It may come from focusing on another goal separate from the pursuit of their own happiness. However, when one focuses on the happiness of others around them, it provides a welcome distraction to the unhappiness they may be feeling inside about their own personal goals. 

We are humans. We are wired to fail at first attempts at everything, including pursuit of happiness. Part of that is because we may not know what makes us happy. We may think we know what makes us happy, but the reality is that we may not know for sure on the first time we make an attempt at it. For example, I thought pursuing a weather degree would bring me happiness as the first step to meeting my career goals to become a meteorologist. I loved doing my undergrad studies in this topic. I loved the college lab classes I had simulating real world meteorology environments. But when I started at my internship at the National Weather Service my last semester, it turned out that I actually hated the profession. It didn't bring me happiness. It brought me misery - I don't like being wrong and forecasts are often wrong!

Disheartened, I didn't want to start all over with switching my college major and spend another couple of years learning something new. I went ahead and graduated college and decided what I wanted to do within the workforce after that. I got a job through a temp agency doing administrative assistant work and was very unhappy that I didn't meet my career goal to become a meteorologist because I didn't know it wouldn't bring me happiness. 

So I threw myself into the relationships around me. I temporarily lived with my parents so I focused on helping them around the house. I focused on learning to cook and cooking them meals. I had a desk job all day but they both worked on their feet all day. Maybe I could help them out and bring them some peace and happiness by at least fixing dinner each night. It worked, and an added benefit was that now we were sitting around the dinner table having discussions each night, something we hadn't done since I was in grade school 15 years prior.

Unfortunately as I graduated college, I had broken up with my boyfriend in the same time frame, but had met someone new that I was ready to dive into a relationship with. I put forth a lot of effort into making that relationship work while still trying to figure out what was going to happen with my career. But I had been offered a permanent position at the place I was temping for and it was good money so I decided to just ride it out there and continue working on crafting happiness for those around me. I made sure my new relationship was well taken care of and that relationship ended up resulting in marriage, which wasn't even a personal goal of mine at the time, it just naturally happened organically as I wasn't looking. This relationship made me happy and by focusing on the happiness of others, I found happiness in something I wasn't even looking for.

As I poured myself into crafting happiness within my new marriage, I was offered a promotion at my job, moving from an administrative assistant to a legal assistant. A far cry from meteorology, it was perfect for me and I loved learning the trade doing on the job training rather than receiving a formal education prior to moving into the position. Just when I was about to start looking for a new career, this career found me instead and it found me by chance as someone vacated a position and the department head there wanted me to take it over. Again - I didn't go looking for happiness, it found me. I was extraordinarily happy in this new position and felt this was a positive career change for myself. 

As my husband and I settled deeper into marriage, we wanted to have a baby but we were struggling to conceive. I spent a lot of time wallowing in unhappiness that my body could be broken, or maybe his was broken, but either way the result was something I wanted but not without a major mental struggle in why it wasn't happening.  No one but us knew about this, so again, I did what I do best in these situations. I poured myself into others. Buying lunch for my parents, creating thoughtful gifts for friends and family, making it a point to check in with them and know that I'm thinking about them, loving on their kids, buying gifts for them, babysitting so they could get a much needed date night. 

Keeping myself occupied by bringing joy to others helped the time fly by and before I knew it, I was having that little bundle of joy of my own. Instead of focusing on the negative, that we had a goal we couldn't reach because of things out of our control, I tried to bring positivity to keep my mind occupied in a constructive way and before I knew it, my own happiness was back on track. 

So while some may believe that happiness comes from some form of the pursuit of their own goals, I am here to tell you that I believe happiness comes from bringing joy to others. A small gesture like fixing dinner for elderly parents, babysitting for friends that want to take a much needed date night, or giving someone a small gift out of the blue because when you saw it you thought of them can bring one happiness even as they may feel like they are failing in the pursuit of their own happiness - not enjoying the career they thought they'd love, not knowing how to change careers in a situation like that, not being able to conceive, etc. These are all things we can dwell on as failures as feeling like a failure is part of human nature. Reconstructing that negative energy into something positive can have an exponential positive rippling affect for those you are pouring your heart and soul into. 
