In today's society, it can seem like there might only be one way to become successful: being rich and winning in everything. But, a lot of the success you might be thinking about comes from working hard and getting advice from others. We live in a world where community is necessary to succeed, even though that might sound counterintuitive. Success can be achieved when you work together with others because it creates an environment of creativity and lets you focus on what you're good at, without creating negative relationships between coworkers. 

Working together gives people a space to bounce ideas back and forth and really figure out how to solve the problem you're presented with. By having a safe space to brainstorm, successful ideas are more likely to flow when others present their ideas as well. This collaboration creates better and better ideas as the conversation contiunes. This can help create a sort of excitement within the team and encourage every member to work hard to carry out this idea to light. This will aid in producing successful accomplishments that would have been difficult to produce if only one person was working on the same project.                                                         

When working in a team, each member has the unique responsability to perfom specific tasks depending on their strengths. By focusing on specific areas that a team member is better gifted at, the overall project will be more efficient and effective. If someone was working alone, they might be able to do things their way, but they probably wouldn't be done to the same level of efficiency because the individual member has to do all of the work. Performing different tasks creates a level of trust between team members and forces communication. These characteristics being developed can be utilized during the project to succeed, but also can be used later in life to succeed. Not only will the project thrive because everyone is working on something they enjoy, but they'll learn the skills necessary to successfully work on a team later in life. 

Although competition might help to force people to work harder, in the end, it will create negative relationships between coworkers and do the opposite of what one would hope would happen. When competiting against coworkers, it is true that members will be motivated to come up with creative ideas and new skills, but resentment will start to form soon after. If coworkers are competiting for a promotion and they don't get it, they will start to form a resentment against the person that got it. This bitterness that now surrounds the work environment will negatively affect everyone's work and decrease the total successfulness of everyone. 

In a world where everyone wants to be successful, working together will make that happen. Working alone might seem like the thing to do, but working together creates a type of flow in the work that creates a successful working environment. Feel free to see if what I'm saying works...why don't you try working with a partner on your next work assignment?
