"Men and woman i want to let you know something" the teacher said, " i have learned from all of my time in this world that you need to quit looking for Mr or Mrs right, and just be happy with good enough." I was told this by one of my professors in college and since then i have taken it to heart in everything that i do. This world we look for perfection, we try to find the perfect job, the perfect car, the perfect wife, all in the attempt to be happy. You can even say that we try to give back in the attempt to be happy. i have learned that you need to focus on the happiness of others in order to help you be happy.

I remeber this professor saying this and i know some might wonder how does this relate. During my life i dated alot of people, looking for mrs perfect, the whole time not being happy becasue i was nit picking about what i was looking for. I met my wife who i have been with now for 11 years. I found someone who was good enough, but that didnt mean that she would not come out to be perfect. I started off my relationship in the whole honey moon phase, and then when that passed we had our ups and downs. During that time i had never thought of leaving her because she made me happy even though there were times that were bad or hard. I made her happy and that made me even happier. Eventually we had kids. 3 of them.  I had a goal at work to be promated during this time. But 2 of my kids got sick, the promotion was my goal and would have made me all so happy to make more money to provide better. The problem with this was that i would have had to not be there for my kids in the hospital, thus making my wife unhappy and my kids unhappy cause they would not have been seeing their dad. I chose the happiness of others to make me happy.  I decided to not take the promotion at work and be there for my family. I dont regret it one day. Be there for my kids to hold them and feed them in the hospital with my wife by my side is what helped nurish our kids back to health. 

Some people like my old boss got mad at me for choosing my family. He thought i should have put work first. The new guy they hired for that position told me he would have made his wife go to the hospital and chose the job because he had been working their for 13 years and been trying so hard for the job that i gave up and recommended him for. The thing was, my old bass had health issues due to the stress of the job, my new supervisor kept complaining to me about the job. They chose goals and personal "happiness". but were they really happy. I always felt bad for them because my supervisor said he lost his girlfriend and their kids to the job but that he was ok with is because he was making more money now. My old boss on the other hand was miserable and would always blame me for choosing my family over the job. He used to tell me "I cant believe you threw away your career for your kids". 

My boss was wrong, i never intended on staying there for long. The place i oculd see made alot of people miserable, even though they were accomplishing goals of thier own. Me i chose my kids and my wife and could not be happier. Their happiness makes me even more happy then i ever could have imagined. I have heard plenty of people in this world say that when you put yourself first nothing gets accomplished or you miss out on stuff you wish you didnt. 

In short if you look for personal goals they will never be reached and you will never find happiness. The quote i used in the beggining was to show that if you look for perfection you will never find it, which to people we set lists of what we want in a partner. We check those boxes off and in the end if we dont check of x amount then we try again. The boxes on that list are the goals we want out of this person, its not realistic. By setting for "goodenough" you have learned that being happy is more about seeing other happy and that is what makes you happy. If this person your dating is happy and that makes you happy fight for it. Personal goals like jobs and promotions alot of people think they hsould take over other things they see that can wait. The thing is that goals come and go, they grow even with us. Once we complete one we set anouther one and another one. If we choose to make others happy we learn to be happy but not to settle. 

