Images and impressions have a strong effect on people. If you look at the history of advertising, you can see that this is true. Print advertising from decades ago often featured products with strong claims. For instance, I remember comic books in the 1960's that showed devices such as X-ray specs and creatures like sea monkeys. Even though the ads were clever and captivating to youthful readers, the products would never live up to what was promised. You couldn't see through a woman's clothing with X-ray specs, and sea monkeys didn't exist.
I also thought my red PF Flyers would make me run faster. Alas, they ever did.
Now I look beyond the print and television advertising of my formative years. At age 61, I see most advertising on social media. In some respects, the format and execution is similar to how televison ads had evolved. The images are fast and there's a lot of quick cutting. Yet something else has emerged. We are sold products by celebrities and influencers. They make the same bold claims, but social media makes the personalities seem closer and more accessible to the viewer. The influencer, even when physically captivating and perhaps filtered, seem close to me. I can leave them a message. They might even reply to the message. 
We see advertising in both average and glamorous situations. We want to be like these people. We want their lifestyles. That's what is being sold - lifestyles. It's not just an item or product. We no longer need attractive packaging. It goes beyond that. We want the lifestyle. We want the clothes, the food, the ideas, health, destinations, and experiences. 
There's another thing - the selling of experiences. Certainly it was the case in the past, but now products are experiences. The celebrities and influencers introduce you to potential realities. They've achieved it, and so can you. Seeing is still believing. 
However, we sometimes hear about these public figures' falls from grace. They are not all they appear to be or aspire to be. They are outed and sometimes ridiculed. Some manage to clean up their image and return to influencing. Some don't. Others run out of steam. The algorithm might no longer favor them and they lose sponsors. For some, it won't matter much, but others lose their notoreity very quickly.
Just as in print and television advertising, can we really believe the claims of social media ads? Are we just as likely to get caught up in the promises of what products purport to do?
Will that lipstick really plump our lips? Will that liquid concoction quell hot flashes and help you sleep better? Can this hot drink replace my caffein habit? Will I look as good in that outfit as the influencer does?
It begs the question - do these influencers really follow their own advice? Did the pretty but troubled woman benefit from online therapy, or was it just a ruse? We'll never know for sure unless that person gets outted. Even then, a better cover story might arise.
Yes, there are the algorithms. They know what you're looking at and where you linger. We all notice how the ads seem tailored to us based on what we view and how often. The manipulation might seem obvious, but when emotions are involved, you might hit the pay button.
Really, it's the same game with new faces in a new medium. You can stand or fall by your credit or debit card in a heartbeat. Repetition of messages still can effect you as much now as in decades past. 
It's all hypnotic. Always was, always will be.
Images and impressions still sway us. There are a strong few that might resist, but I don't know many of them. I have resolve, but even I broke down last night and purchased a coffee substitute with fancy mushrooms in it. So there you go. 


