All indeed is not as it seems.  We've all heard these words from time to time. 
But do we acknowledge instances when confronted with things or situations that are not what they seem, or not what they were protrayed to be?  And in those instances when we might acknowledge that things are not what they seem, or what they were protrayed to be, then how do we respond?

An example of something that might not be what it seems relates to everyday advertising.  We've all seen ads for products that capture our attention and draw us in.  In some instances, these ads seem to be calling our names and we're prompted to purchase a product based on the advertised claims.  While true that in many cases products perform as advertised, there are also many cases when the consumer is disappointed as the product does not perform as advertised.  Not even close to what was advertised.  In such instances, one might continue to use the product in order to avoid waste.  Or some might toss the product in the garbage.  Or one might complain to the manufacturer or product advertiser.  Regardless as to how one might respond in such a situation, the product was not what is seemed to be based on the advertising.

Another example of something that might not be what it seems to be relates to political candidates running for office.  We've all seen negative ads run by political candidates, bashing their opponents.  These ads often contain claims against opponents that are not completely accurate, and are embellishments of the truth.  And many times political candidates make promises during campaigns that they know they cannot keep, or that they know they cannot keep without the support of other governmental bodies.  These promises are made in order to get votes.  And in election after election for virtually all offices, many voters cast votes based on such empty promises.  Once elected, voters are often disappointed and frustrated when the realize the candidat they voted for was not what or who they represented themselves to be.

Sometimes it becomes irrelevant to a consumer when realized that a product is not what it was claimed to be.  And sometimes it becomes irrelevant to a voter when a political candidate is elected to office and is unable to keep promises made during the campaign.  This irrelevancy occurs when a consumer is overly loyal to a brand and/or when a voter is loyal to a party and unable to consider party alternatives.  Brand loyalty and party loyalty enable the vicious cycles to continue, with things often continuing to be not as they seem.

These are just two examples we encounter in everyday life of instances when things might sometimes not be as they seem.   There are many other areas in which things might not be as they seem.  We as consumers and citizens need to be cognizant of the existance of such instances.  That old saying "Buyer beware" is very true.   This warning is loud and clear, and is what it seems to be.  A warning to consumers.

