Happiness is a common emotion among humanity. There are several reasons why people feel happy. For example, when one human helps another human, they both benefit in being happy. Also, people prefer to be happy instead of feeling the opposite. They would rather have a positive emotion instead of a negative one, because it gives them strength and encouragement. People are more likely to be happy if they focus more on the happiness of others than their personal goals since thinking about somebody else is of more importance than thinking of yourself.

First, I have found that thinking of others instead of only focusing on myself has been beneficial in my own life. For example, when I volunteered at the emergency department of a hospital, I was able to give patients there pillows and blankets. I wanted to make the patients at the hospital comfortable and happy. After I gave each patient a pillow and a blanket, I felt happier myself. I felt that I made a wonderful difference in their lives by providing for their needs in a hospital.

Second, when I visited the elderly at a nursing home, I was giving my time to other people instead of spending time with my own friends. Since I was thinking about satisfying other humans compared to satisfying my own interests, I made the people at the nursing home happier. In addition, I enjoyed interacting with older people. I felt that they were valuable and that I could learn things from them. Besides that, the people at the nursing home liked seeing and talking with me. They were excited about visitors since they don't always get too many people that visit. I was an encouragement to them, and I made them content.
 
Therefore, I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they concentrate on the preferences of other people instead of their own preferences. By thinking about other people before yourself, there is a better outcome. Both you and the other person feel happy as opposed to just making yourself happy. Also, through helping others, you are being selfless instead of selfish. Overall, it's important to give other people attention in place of your own desires.
