     One of the saddest downfalls was the indictment of Bill Cosby on numerous accounts of sexual assault. I am not a black American, but even as an Asian-American, I looked up to him, and revered him like a father figure, to millions of young Americans watching his great show back in the 80's and 90's. I have spoken to some black American friends who expressed the myriad of emotions associated with Bill Cosby's downfall, taking into account the heinous nature of his actions against women, using his stardom to overpower women to doing his sexual bidding, and the fact that he was a prominent black figure shown to be a sham. He was a father figure t the black community, a hero, an icon, who represented a lot of the best of black culture in America, now relegated to the painful, excruciating reminder of the backbreaking stereotypes of aggressive, dangeroous black men, who are out to terrorize white women and seen as a threat to society. He realized the deepest fears of so many black individuals in America, and you could hear the collective societal groan watching Mr. Cosby summarily deny multiple accounts of his sexual crimes, further demeaning women, and bolstering racial stereotypes that have stood for so long.

     Bill Cosby's downfall reminds me of the old adage that the label doesn't always match the content of its' character. Bill Cosby's character stood for integrity, high education, success, respectability, a family man, and a good father. The reality of his life made his on-camera persona seem a sham, though the very essence of acting is to portray reality in a make-believe scenario. Make-believe is just what Bill Cosby's character turned out to be. And this is a stark reminder that what we see on screen of a public persona does not often match the reality of who that person really is behind closed doors.

     I can't help but feel personal sorrow to see one of my childhood heroes fall in such an Icharuthian way and imagine the rest of society feels reticent to trust and believe in another person of that magnitude again witnessing such a tragic unveiling of his true life events. The juxtaposition of comedy and horror is startling when we think about the on-screen presentation versus the off-screen reality. Watching Bill Cosby do his jello pudding pop voice for the hundredth time from the comfort of our own homes, made us split our sides laughing, while women were suffering in a dark room being forced and coerced into sexually degrading behavior. 

     The temptation to distrust all public figures and make sweeping judgments about all actors in Hollywood as fake people, none who they say they really are, is visceral and real, coming from a place of hurt and feeling duped for years. 
