We live in a world that has become difficult to tell what is real and what is fake. Everywhere a person looks, they can find someone or something that isn't quite what it appears to be. Magazines and advertisments are full of pictures that have been photoshopped to look perfect. Can we even determine reality from make-believe anymore? Images and impressions don't tell the whole story, and our society has been manipulated to rely far to much on what the eye sees instead of the truth. 

One of the easiest examples of this is to open up any magazine and look at the models and celebrities that fill the pages. The models have perfect skin, perfect bodies, and perfect hair. We are made to believe that this idea of perfection is abtainable. In reality, if you were to see these models in person, you would see that even the most beautiful people have their flaws. Our youth are striving for a level of perfection that simply cannot be abtained, and then struggle when they constantly can't measure up. Our youth are experiencing levels of anxiety and depression that are at an all time high. We must ask ourselves why.  

Another example of favorable impressions are poiliticians when theya re running for office. Politcians build their entire campaigns on the ideas that people want to hear. They know was topics they mus take a stance on to build thier following. Many policiticans endorse ideas that they don't even believe in because they know it will get them votes. How can you trust anyone who builds a foundations on ideas they don't even believe in? We are putting our country in the hands of people who lie to get what they want. 

An example we face of images and impressions effecting us every day is the marketing tactics that surround us. The products we buy at the grocery store are worded in ways that appeal to us as the consumer. The packages are certain colors and designs because they become more appealing. Even the color of the walls in restaurants and store move our emotions to eat more or buy more. Did you know that certain colors make us feel hungry? Researchers are constanyl conducting studies to find new ways to effect the consumer. Marketing is aimed at building an impression on the consumer. 

Some might say, it's our responsibility as humans to be able to evaluate every interaction we have and be able to gauge what to believe. It seems like we should know what is real and what is fake. Our society has made this more and more difficult, and evaluating truth as became more subjective. We must be deligent in making sure our emotions don't take over the truth. I think simply not being informed is on of the most dangerous ways we can live our life. We must always choose to dig deeper and ask more questions. 

Overall, we live in a world where images and impressions do have much to big of an effect on people. We must be willing to dig deeper and not take everything at its surface. Marketing is aimed at moving our emotions, and we must know the facts. What we see and feel is not always the best guide. Understanding that everything is not what meets the eye is essential in navigating the difference between what we see and what is actually going on. As technology continues to advance in our society, it is going to become more difficult to recognize all of the "fake" in our world. 
