     In current times, appearance plays a huge role in how everyone views everything. People are often drawn in by flashniness, expensive items, and popularity. This essay will explore how people tend to advertise themselves to create impressions that are favorable based on how they look and how they are percieved by the public. This essay will also focus on how appearances affect others.

     Social media is a key factor in millions of peoples' perceptions of others. Just because someone appears to be doing well financially, mentally, socially, emotionally, and physically, you can never really tell. I think that everyone views social media with rose colored glasses and fail to think beyone what they actually see or an image someone portrays. 

     One example that sticks out in my mind, is a tragedy that recently occured with the passing of Cheslie Kryst. She was Miss USA , so she automatically had a huge following on social media. She was beautiful, successful, smart, talented, and very popular. On the surface, she seemed to be a happey person. Cheslie, ultimately committed suicide and left everyone in shock and disbelief. She was suffering from depression and nobody knew. You could not tell based on her social media and her job, which featured her on live tv. These outlets portrayed her to be completely happy. 

     Another example of how impressions effect people is today's obsession to have the perfect body. So many celebrities have undergone surgery to look perfect. Normal people are constantly viewing these celebrities and wanting to look exactly like them. In many cases, people, especially women, undergo cosmetic surgery so they can look "perfect". Some celebrities also promote items that they do not use and claim that those products give them desirable results. Their followers buy the products expecting to look like those celebrities. That typically does not happen. 

     In conclusion, people tend to judge and draw conclusions based off of what they see. In actuality, people are way more complex. Just becuase a person may seem happy because they have fame and money, they are just like normal people, battling and struggling with things that they may not speak about. Just beucase these celebrities see perfect, and seem to have the perfect bodies, we can not strive to be just like them becuase it is mostly fake and unrealistic. 
