I believe success can be achieved through many different ways and avenues. I believe at different times we may need both cooperation as well as competition whereas other times we only need one or the other. Either one can be achieved through a multitude of options. However, I believe for the most part success will be achieved through competition. It is a highly competitive world and at times although we may not want to it is the way to suceed. For example, at a job you may have to compete with a co-worker to suceed and move up the ladder. You may have to compete with their ideas and suggest better ones in order to move up. It is sad but true. Although sometimes cooperation seems like a better option but although it seems or may be the right thing to do, in this world and times we are living you will have to compete to get ahead. I think competetion although at times not right also motivates people to move ahead and do better. Sometimes competetion encourages a person to move ahead and put forth their best effort. Humans as a whole are very competetive in my opinion. Cooperation can also be helpful for someone to suceed but the said person will need to work hard to achieve their goals and success. It is helpful but they may still need to use some type of competetion to get ahead. They will need competition to remind them of the goal they are trying to reach or attain. I also believe competition gets right to the point of what's needed or the goal that is being sought versus cooperation I believe you are dwindling or going in circles wasting time and not getting to the point or goal quicker. So ultimately, I believe competition helps to achieve success more than cooperation does. In the world nowadays children or adults sometimes sadly just have to compete. It is a tough world and tough times we are living in that require so much more. It is a race and competition against one another. It is also a matter of preference but then you may or may not move ahead depending on which you choose. You may want to just choose one against the other and move ahead quicker verus wasting time and stalling. In corporate America definitely competition is the way to go as there are so many tough and competitive people out there who you will need to compete against to get anywhere and move ahead. Cooperation may get some work done and use effort while competition allows people to give more of themselves. 

