      I think that modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. Our consumerism and waste is out of control. It is bad for the environment, it breeds insecurities and it is bad for our mental health.

      We mass produce, then purge vast amounts of materials that are not good for our Earth. Toys, gadgets, endless things that are made of nonrecyclable materials and plastics that will be around for thousands of years. They are overfilling our garbage dumps, polluting our oceans and contributing to carbon emissions and other hazardous gases in our atmosphere. 

      In additon to waste and the environment, I do not think materialism does provide meaning or happiness. I think that it breeds insecurity. One is always trying to keep up with the Jones', have what everyone else has, packing their houses with more stuff than they could possibly ever utilize. And it never feels like enough. The next shiny new toy, or popular new gadget is dangled in front of someone and they feel like they must have it. 

      The happiness that stuff provides is short lived. There is, of course, an initial burst of excitement over something new. But it does not satiate one for long. Our mental health would be better off without these short bursts of happiness that things can give us. 

      I think a more sustained approach to happiness is to experience life. There is so much beauty and wonder to discovery in the world. And those memories provide us with a longer sense of satisfaction than stuff does. That's not to say never buy anything.  For instance, I have a Apple Watch that makes me very happy and I think that it will for some time. It is a useful tool that I am using to help with my mental and physical health. But I also know that a vacation with my family will provide more meaning and happiness to my life than that eighth pair of jeans. 

     We would all be a little better off with less stuff and more life. I get that it is hard to jump off the consumerism hamster wheel. We earn money so that we can spend it. We buy what we see others consuming or what is being advertised to us on countless platforms. Our favorite celebrities, tiktokers, influencers have this great new thing that will make your life better, easier or cooler. We are made to think that all our troubles will subside if we can just fix or purchase this one new thing. I think at this point though, we have learned that life doesn't work like that. There is no easy fix. It takes hard work, dedication and commitment to better ourselves, to learn what we need to fill our buckets and to find our happiness.

      Your happiness may not look like mine. What experience can you find in life that satisfies and satiates you. That makes you feel fuller and richer. It may be the ocean at sunset, lying in a field of wildflowers looking up at the stars, learning about the history and culture of an ancient land. Maybe it involves animals, or other people, or being alone in a cabin in the middle of the woods. You have to find the experiences that work for you. But I promise you that it will be more worthwhile than buying, buying, buying and still not feeling good enough as the people around you.  
