    When you lanch a new business, you will probably be hoping for sucess. there are various behaviours that could make it easier for you to succeed. both rivaly and cooperations are believed to be necessary, but cooperations may be more crucial. i diagree with this idea, i think the key to sucess is competition.
  
   Competition forces you to constantly strive to outperform others others and forces you to surpass yourself, you will strive to providse your all so you will always put fourth your best effort. in light of it, you will succed. you will never stay the same, instead you will always advance and develop yourself.
    
   Others will assist you, but only have the power to ensure your sucess. When you cooperate, you are forced to put the group's sucess ahead of our own. cause you to lose sight of your goals and where you want to go. to illustrate my viewpoint, ill use a story in a university . 
 
    The exam was required of all my classmate who grduated from school in the same year as me. Our study group gathered while we prepared for the exam . Everyone in that group brought their individual notes from classes and from other literature and taught the others, so we could all learn more about thesubject we are studying. 
    
    This demonstrates how cooperations could be significants, yet it was'nt enough to pass the exam and get into the institutions. We all wanted to attend university , but there waren't as many openings as there were postlators. To get into the faculty i wanted to be in, i had to perform better academically than other students. 
    
    We all kept a careful eye on the progress of the others because of this. If a classmate scored higher on an essay for the exam than i did, i would try harder to schieve that score or one that is higher. 

   In order to earn better grades, i always studied harder and gave it my all. as a result, in felt quite prepared wheni took the exam , and i scored very well, which led to my acceptance into premier university in my nation.
