What is happiness? Is it something someone just inherently is? Is it something that you either are or are not? Is it a goal that can be attained with the right attitude? Happiness seems to be the goal we all strive for in life. If we're not happy, then what's the point?

While some people spend their whole lives focusing on trying to make themselves happy by focusing on their own personal goals, I believe that happiness comes from interacting with the world around us and making others' lives brighter. We are told by social media that we are to focus on ourselves first, make ourselves happy first before helping others. This has led to a whole mess of selfish people with more depression than ever before. Most often, those people whose sole focus seems to be attaining their life goals and dreams for the purpose of finding happiness will find that soon after they reach their goals, they begin feeling restless again without having a purpose to their life. They find themselves creating more goals to try to find that "high" again that they equate with happiness. I too have spent part of my life constantly working to reach my goals only to find myself feeling empty when I reach the end goals. Only when I started working on my relationship with God and focusing on my relationship with others, working to improve their lives did I start feeling a true sense of inner peace and happiness. I found that making others' days brighter by doing simple things like complimenting them on their hair, their outfit, their kids, etc. made me feel happier and more complete. I felt happier when those around me felt happier. Humans are not meant to be alone. We are meant to work together, and helping others makes everyone's lives easier and happier.

While we are all taught through social media that the path to happiness is focusing on ourselves first, that ultimately leads to feelings of being incomplete and unhappy. Humans are here on this planet to help one another. Through helping others to make their lives easier, we too will feel more complete, more settled, and happier. Working together, we truly can make the world a happier place for all of us.
