 People seem to be more happy when they focus on their personal goals. I now know this personally after striving to focus only on the happiness of others. Through the years, I have attempted to concentrate on making my loved ones lives full of happiness. Yes it makes me smile to see them happy, but when I reflected on my personal life, I found that I was not happy. I had not achieved any of my personal dreams, but I made sure that others reached theirs.
 
 Life is full of happy and sad moments, but most people go their whole lives without reaching their own true happiness. Many people go to college happy to have achieved the goal of graduating high school. But most of them end up majoring in subjects that made their parents happy, or in majors that make them seem highly intelligent in other's eyes. They end up in careers that drive them crazy, careers that they are very unhappy in after a few years of work. They are now in debt for college loans for an education that led them to unfulfilling career. Those are people that worked to only focus on the happiness of others, but not themselves.

 Taking the lead in your happiness sometimes means that you will have to witness someone else lose some happiness. It is not selfish to accomplish a goal that you set out for yourself that brings you joy. Others should also be happy to see you happy, especially if they care about you. I am personally happy looking back at the chances I took to reach my goals and pursue my own happiness. My kids are more happier since they saw me reach a few goals. It actually encouraged them to work on some of their goals. Watching them has actually brought extra happiness to my life. 

 More people need to take the time to work on their personal goals to try to make their lives happier.  Concentrating on the happiness of others is okay. But one should take the time to create happiness in their lives because we only have one life to live. We only live once and it shouldn't be wasted being unhappy. Being unhappy will only lead to unhappiness in the one's around you.
