Happiness is....  This prompt is the jumping point for many philosophical discussions on the meaning of life.   The Beatles would tell you that happiness is a warm gun.  Some suggest it can be found when focusing on the completion of personal goals, or in the quietness of a peaceful and content life.

I believe that happiness can be found when one is focused on the happiness of others.  Imagine yourself on Christmas morning, sitting in your pajammas with your family and loved ones around.  The tree is lit and the stockings are stuffed, and the house is filled with the aroma of pine trees and turkey.  There is anticipation in the air as everyone awaits the opening of gifts.  Gifts that have been hand picked by someone who knows you, understands you, and likely has a good feeling for what you might need or simply want - deep down - and would never buy for yourself.  Sure, it feels great to be the recipient, knowing that someone thought of you, took the time to shop, spend their hard on money on a gift.  But man, doesn't it feel good when you give that perfect gift to someone and see the joy and appreciation just light up their face.  

Happiness is found in a true connection with someone.  A smile to a stranger you pass on the street; precious time spent with an elderly relative.  Try sometime to just sit and listen to a friend - really listen.  Don't interrupt them, don't try to think of the next thing you are going to say, just listen.  Be there for them, and be fully present.  It is a priceless experience for your friend, and for you.  Knowing that you made a difference just by being present brings a happiness that you cannot buy.  

Time is a precious commodity, especially when you work full time and are raising a family.  Time is not something you can get back.  When you give it freely in an effort to bring happiness to someone, whether to a stranger or to a loved one, there is no better way to fill your heart with joy.  That is why I believe that soul-satisfying happiness is found when you focus on the happiness of others.  


