The happiness of others really depends on them personally, I would say. All humans differ from each other and what makes one happy does not necessarily mean it would make everyone happy. However I do feel that humans are a generally selfish and narcisistic species and therefore for most of them they would be more likely to be happy if they focus on their own goals while ignoring the happiness of others.

I think humans need to distract themselves by focusing on their own goals rather then thinking about the well being of others. It's sorta like escapism. If you focus on improving your own situation, you will not think negative thoughts (for the most part) and therefore will be more likely to become a happier person. You will really only be thinking about improving your life and you will become happier as a result. Focusing on the happiness of others would be depressing. You would subconsiously compare yourself to  people who (probably) are in a much worse position in life than you are. And as result of this you might become more depressed, more unhappy. Focusing on your own goals, improving yourself, provides a way to not think like that (escapism). Because instead of comparing your self to others you would only be thinking of ways to improve your own life. Also with the massive increase of popularity with the internet I feel as though a lot of people who claim to be all about improving the lifes of others are frauds. They claim to help people and they do help somewhat. But they only do it for extremely selfish reasons. To make themselves feel better, to make money off of ad revenue. Some of these people make millions of dollars from creating content of them "helping" people. They make insane money while as the people they help make pretty much nothing. People who do such things I believe tend to be more depressed than people who simply only focus on improving their own lives whilst not getting involved with the lives of others.

But again at the end of the day humans are different. However for the most part humans are more likely to be happy if they just focus on improving themselves. As opposed to focusing on other people/improving humanity as a whole. And people who claim to want to improve other peoples lives or humanity as a whole I feel tend to be less happier than others. Like they only do it for attention/money/to feel better about their own lives which may not be very good, at least as compared to the lives of the people they claim to want to help.
