The best things in life are free, that includes happiness. How to get that happiness depends alot on your outlook and your needs in life. Personally, I believe that you can find happiness by helping others. It is a great joy to know that i have been able to take a task from someone who is struggling and give them a sense of freedom from that burden. Humans are social creatures and we are hardwired to give and recieve assistance. Through this assistance, we form bonds of family and friends and as we help each other we continue to build the happiness in our lives and as a group. 

While many may think that the path to happiness lies in pursuing only their personal dreams, this is not true. While you can have a limited amount of happiness from pursuing your own needs and joys. That happiness that is created is not one that is lasting or encompassing of others. Being happy by oneself is short lived. We want to engage with others and be around others that also want to have our happiness in their life. By focusing only on yourself, you shortchange the people around you and are limiting yourself to only the amount of happiness one person can create and not the cumulation of a family and group. 

While there are many paths to happiness, the social mechanisms that we have in place require that we strive to find a group of people to belong to and through that belonging we can grow expondential happiness beyond what only one person can accomphlish. Being of help, service and giving to others brings both happiness to the people you are assisting and an internal sense of joy and peace that lends itsself to hleping you find the happiness you are looking for internally. Ensuring the ability to be around others, we are able to continue a sense of continous happiness around our groups and learn to have an influx of happiness throughout our lives. 

I think the idea that personal goals bring you happiness is accurate and if a person is unhappy in their life then they will make it difficult to focus on the happiness of others. While there is a balance, i believe that one can focus on their own goals and find a way to help others. The happiness of ones own goals is limited where as the happiness we gain from others is infinte. 



