Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic is a question a lot of people ask themselves. A lot of people blame the evolution of society and it's desire for more materlistic values on the rise of technology and influencers. Social media, music, television, and movies are a big influence on the way society has become materialistic. Social media giants such as Instagram, Twitter, TikTok, and Facebook have all played a immense role in shaping the way our society has viewed our materialistic values. When it comes to music, rap has influenced the younger generation that having luxury cars, designer clothes, and expensive jewelery to be the social norm. Televison and movies have also had an impact on our society with movies constantly having adverts trying to get you to purchase the newest and best thing. 

So what does this all say about modern society and it's path towards materialism? Should we be limiting and regulating what people see and hear to stop the trend of constant materialistic needs? First we need to ask oursevles, is the materialism affecting society in a negative way? There has always been the question on whether materialism is a negative or positive on society as a whole. An argument could be made that materialism is what pushes people to work. Wanting a new house, phone, or even a new car is a motivation to work and help society progress. On another hand we should be looking at the negative impacts on too much materialism. Big companies are constantly advertising their next new product online, on billboards, and even at bus stops. The constant adverts presented to us in our day to day lives, feeding into our materialistic values could be hurting society as a whole. 

At the end of the day, society does play a role in constantly consuming and wanting more. I believe the criticism should fall on the corporations that are constantly feeding into the materialistic desire of the general public. Placing advertisments in everyones day to day lives to get them to want the newest and best product. 
