I think one of the most fulfulling aspects of life is to help other people. I believe that the relentless pursuit of happiness comes from service to others. This is done in multiple ways but can come from service to the community, family, and friends. It is through service to others that one can achieve happiness. 

Human beings are social creatures. We don't live in a vacuum. We are not rugged individuals going out there on our own to manifest our destiny. We're social. We need other people, we depend on other people, we look to other people for guidance. No man lives in a vacuum. The way we has a species crawled out of Africa is through mutual cooperation with one another. The way we achieve this is through serving others and seeing them succeed.

One way we can thrive as a species is feeling connected and feeling happy. People feel this through a sense of belonging and a safety net of the community around us. Knowing that there is someone out there for us not is only reassuring it is helpful it is safety and it is connectedness. One of the great ways to feel connected to one another is through volunteering.

There are many ways to volunteer and many organizations to volunteer to and choosing one can be difficult. But this need not be the case. We can volunteer to help the great good of the community through community action groups or through groups that serve the community such as a food cooperative or a food pantry. 

Food security is important for the happiness and well being of many individuals. And the onlyway to achieve food security for some people is through donations at a food pantry. Seeing and helping people be happy that they  have a meal is very important. It keeps people from worrying about when there next meal could be. It provides a connection to family, and to the community. It keeps people healthy and without worry when their next meal could be.

Some people may argue that hunger should be a movator to succede. That the drive for survival should prompt the hungry individual to obtain work, means, and a job to support oneself. But I think this is very short sighted and dangerous.

No man lives in a vacuum. No man wants to think they will die unless they work. This is not only dangerous and exploitative. No one should be so poor that they have to worry about their survival. Plus there are many people such as the elderly and the disabled who cannot work? What of them? What about our brothers and sisters in needd?

I think the drive for happiness comes through selfless sacrifice to the group rather than the individual. This is the motivator that should drive everyone in helping each other. Not only is it human nature, our survival depends upon it.  
