Well, this position of competition versus cooperation depends upon which wealth status people fall under. For instance, competition is a way used to pit low paying workers against one and other in the working world. American workers are pitted in a competition against Chinese workers. Chinese workers are extremely underpaid. American workers are still paid a halfway okay pay rate.

On the other spectrum, competition is absent from the one percenters and the upper management elite. Here, there isn't any competition due to not many slots available to fill. In this escalloin, upper management are not placed in direct competition with anyone at all. They are alone and can move freely about in the work world. 

Competition and cooperation have everything to do with who gives the orders and who takes the orders. Those who give the orders never take orders. Those who give orders are middle management and the one percenter elites. Or, the cooperators. Those taking the orders, which is the majority of the population are in the competitive realm. Those who take orders are leant to believe in competition between workers. Or, those taking orders are always the working poor and the lower middle classes.

Therefore, which is better to be on the competitive spectrum or the cooperative spectrum? The answer is obvious. Those giving the orders will never be held accountable for making mistakes. Those giving the orders will always be the winners of the world. Those giving the orders will make a lot of money. And those taking the orders in the competitive realm will always be held accountable for the decisions made by others. The competitive world will always be the underpaid, the over worked, and those who hold jobs to only be able to scrap by in life. 

The prompt is very general and I am teasing out a biased meaning from what I have read. Moreover, those jobs that have been and seen more outsourcing during the NAFTA bill, realize they as workers can never compete with workers who do the same amount of work for pennies. Companies outsource to take in more profit with very little pay output. The United States hasn't always been this way. Back in the 1950s and 1960s people were able to make money and climb up the status ladder. Only one person worked. It was easier to buy a house and a car. Nowadays, several people working several jobs only accounts for rent or mortgage and affords nothing else. And competition is fierce.

I also wrote over 200 words. What more do you want me to say concerning competition and cooperation? I can't look this up or reference research on here. I am writing from my experience and knowledge of what I know about the pitting against each other concerning making competition a struggle between the working poor with those of cooperation and freedom afforded to the wealthy only. Something most of us will never know about.

In closing, another viewpoint could be that competition in colleges, this learning therefore spills over into the work world, is considered healthy. Cooperation is considered a sign of giving in or of being weak. Totally upsidedown in the world of the wealthy (mostly). Being cooperative is probably not an American trait, I assume. People achieve success by cooperating because those who cooperate are those at the top of the food chain. There. Working to get ahead has nothing to do with being competitive anylonger due to the above paragraphs.
