It seems people value the presentation of something over its practical use nine times out of ten. Professional wrestler Stone Cold Steve Austen has recently appeared in a series of commercials for Tide laundry detergent, and so the question is are we to accept his word that Tide is the best detergent when he has no expertise on the matter? In other words, is that simply the bottom line because Stone Cold said so?

Perhaps that example was a bit ridiculous, and the majority of us realize we ought not to live our lives based on professional wrestling catchphrases, but this illustrates a broader point: Every day celebrities endorse new products, people buy the latest iPhone simply because it has ANOTHER camera on it without ever stopping to question if they even need all the cameras on their current model, and merely because they were told they wanted it, because they were told it would make their lives better, perhaps most importantly, because they were told it would impress others.

It seems just about everything people do is based on impressing others with how flashy their lives are, from sports cars to designer clothes. Even when it's clearly not the best choice for them, they'll continue the practice against their own self interest. Case in point, women walking around in impractical, cumbersome and uncomfortable high heels simply because some designer told them it was fashionable.

More than that, it seems people even delude themselves into thinking that this is what they want, as they'll pay astronomically higher prices for a cup of coffee just because someone drew a leaf on the top of it. Is this really what people want out of life? Leaves in their coffee, phones with features they never use, empty materialism with no real meaning and no value after it's over?

Wouldn't it be better to stop paying top dollar for merely cosmetic upgrades and to instead put our money, our time, our lives towards more meaningful endeavors with more lasting impacts?

That's why I believe it would be better to focus not on what we have in our lives or how the things we have look, but instead worry about what we can get done with those things, and what we can accomplish in our lives so that when we look back at the end of our years we'll be able to say, "That was a life well lived."
