Modern society is far more materialistic than previous generations because capitalism has created a society that only functions when the majority of people are consuming goods constantly. The current economic system that most of the world uses is a system that relies on constant growth, both in productivity and in profits, which is not sustainable. People have been convinced by the capitalist system that they need to have these things, and in order to have these things, they must work constantly within the capitalist system. It is a never ending cycle of greed and want, possession and desire, struggle and poverty, materialism and lack. In order to change this cycle, which traps everyone within it, it's necessary to examine and criticize the system itself.

Society does not have to be this way, nor was it always this way. Capitalism is an invention - it is not a natural way of existing. Humans are the only species that have to pay to be alive. Capitalism was created as a way to expoloit workers and allow the already wealthy to become wealthier. While it was initially an evolution of feudalism, in the feudal societies, the serf and the lord both benefitted. The lord owed his serfs housing, food, and care. The serfs then worked the land and the lord made most of the money. This system was horrendously inequitable, of course, but capitalism made that system even worse. It took away the responsibilities of the lord to provide housing and care for the serfs, and instead, created a system in which the lord pays the serf money and then the serf has to provide housing, healthcare, and food for themselves.  

Materialism is a direct result of a system that tells everyone that making money to buy things is the natural state of living and that there is no other way. Not only that, but that buying things will get us (serfs) closer to the status of our bosses (lords). Workers constantly strive to make more and more money to buy more and more things, and feel guilty and depressed when they cannot work hard enough to have the things they desire, never stopping to think that the system itself is what is broken.

The impact of consumerism and materialism on the planet is devastating. Cheaply made plastic goods litter the oceans. Microplastics are found in breast milk, fish, and human tissue. Single use plastics are rarely recycled and end up in landfills, along with throw away fashion, and an endless number of cars and electronics. The world is drowning in the evidence of society's materialism, and it is going to end up killing the planet. 

Materialism impacts every aspect of society. It forces people to work in jobs they hate to earn money to buy things that they think will make them happy, because they don't know there is another way. It does incalcuable damage to the planet. It hurts animals through factory farming and over breeding. It creates unsustainable business practices because the emphasis is always on just producing as much stuff as cheaply as possible. It puts people into horrendous debt. It pits citizens against one another and teaches them to fear their money being stolen by "socialists." It makes people selfish, greedy, and materialistic. 

Capitalism does not work. Materialism does not work. Society must find a new way to function, or it will die and take the planet with it.


