People will often look for happiness in different ways. Some may look inside themselves and focus on something that they want, while others may look outward and focus on what they can do for others. Due to the differences in people, it may be difficult to understand which perspective is the right path toward happiness for every person. However, by looking closer at the notion of happiness, it's possible to see which option is more likely to result in happiness.

Simply put, happiness is the state of being happy or experiencing joy. It's an emotional state that can come with or without expectation. When it comes to seeking happiness, a person is more likely to obtain it when they try to help others.

Happiness that is derived from helping others can be split into two parts: the feeling that comes from completing a task, and the feeling that is obtained from gratitude. When a person helps someone in need, they feel satisfaction that they were able to do something for another person's benefit. The person that they helped is likely to show them gratitude in different ways. Sometimes the gratitude is a simple "thank you", but it can also be a reward of some sort. Either way, the gratitude that is received is combined with the completion satisfaction for a form of happiness that is twice as powerful as fulfilling a personal goal. It's a happiness that feeds back on itself.

It is possible for people to gain happiness from their own wants, and it is important for a person to maintain their own happiness. Working toward a goal can make people happy by allowing them to receive the gratification from knowing that they were able to do something. While this gratification is good, it doesn't come with the same level of happiness that happens when a person know that they've made someone else happy. 

Out of the ways people use to get happiness, it's better to get it by doing something for another person. Happiness derived from helping others is more fulfilling than happiness from personal satisfaction because a person can gain happiness from their actions and from the gratitude of others. 
