     How does one achieve happiness? That is a question that has been asked for thousands of  years. Some people think you do so by focusing on your own goals and dreams, trying to make them a reality. Others believe that the only true way to happiness is by focusing your efforts on other people rather than yourself, doing what is best for everyone. My belief is the latter. That the only true way to find happiness is not to focus on yourself, but to turn your energy outward and shine your light on the people that you love the most.

     I have come to this conclusion essentially through trial and error. The trials have been my  lifetime: 49 years of trying to both make myself happy and make other people happy. It is that basis on which I claim, without a doubt in my mind, that the only way to truly be happy yourself is to focus your attention on what you can do for others. Not only your friends and family, but strangers as well. I've found that the times that I'm happiest are not the times when I'm pursuing my own goals. Sure, I have them. Some that I've had for most of my life. And yes, they absolutely do bring me happiness. However, I find even more happiness...true, deep down, in my soul happiness, when I'm helping others. 

     My favorite Bible verse is Matthew 25:40: "Truly I tell you whatever you did for the least of these brothers and sisters of  mine, you did for me." It took me a long time to get that. I've always wanted to help when I could, going back to being a kid. But it took me a lof of years to truly understand what this verse means. So whenever I see someone looking through the trash for food, it doesn't take much time, energy, or money for me to gently go up to them and ask them if I can buy them something to eat. The sheer happiness and gratitude that I see on their faces is worth more to me than anything I could achieve myself in pursuing my own goals. I don't like to give people money. What I like to do when they ask me is say, "I don't have any cash on me, but if you're hungry or thirsty, I'd be happy to go with you to (insert name of their favorite place here) and buy you something." 

     And here's where the real happiness comes in: I don't tell anyone about it. I don't come home and tell my wife, or my friends, or post it on social media. I just do it. I do it to help. I do it because it makes me feel good inside. It's like chicken soup for the soul, just like the title of those old books. Sure, my wife and daughter have seen me do it. That's why our daughter now does it herself now that she's an adult. I could not be more proud of her for doing that. Another thing I taught her, and this goes right along with making other people happy, is whenver I see a man or woman in uniform (military, police, firefighter), I make sure I go up to them and thank them for their service. Same thing when I see older gentlemen in stores wearing a hat that says "VIetnam Veteran." It's the least I can do for their sacrifices and it makes me feel good inside to thank them.

     Sure, there are arguements that focusing on yourself  is the best way to make you happy. Working on your hobbies, projects, and passions. And I absolutely agree: Those things should make you happy (if not, why are you doing them?). My outside interests make me happy as well so I completely understand how and why some people feel that way . But to find real happines...lasting happiness...actual joy....you need to do for others more than you do for  yourself.

     At the end of the day, the path to your own happiness is a decision you have to make by yourself. Do what feels right to you. I would never suggest otherwise. Each person is different. But I think that if you really look at both sides of the coin, and live enough years, you will see that what you do for others will bring you far more happiness that will last a lifetime. 
