To succeed, One should focus more on competition than the coopetration.  Competition is everywhere in our modern world, in school, at work, on road, and many more. Success can be achieved through many different ways. Actually most of the time both ways are needed to obtain success.  Success is better achieved though competition. Most times, to become competitive, it is very necessary to work with cooperation. 
Competition and cooperation are not opposites. Competition is the simplest and broadest therms, a comparision. Competition or cooperation is just jthe behavioural strategy people choose to acheive the goal. They don't make real difference in the coincidental final result that lead to, it is the prupose they are carried out for that makes difference. While the idea of mutually benefical competition, or cooperation have been recently popular, one can argue that by its very nature, competition is rately accepted by choice and sledom friendly.  To survive in competition, this forces others to similarly test these boundaries, pushing them ever, resulting in destructive race that benefits all parties.
On another point, collabaration, by its very nature, demands mutual coopeation to benefit all parties involved.  The sharing of ideas is also more common conductive to creative, innovation, adaptability and speed of the progess. It engenders trust further encourages trust, fourther encourage the sharing of the knowledge and create an environment where intelligence can fostered to address some more challenging problems that we face.
Competition increases your effort to become successful.  In competition, people always try to oblige themselves, so they can beat others. If cooperation is more involved than competition, than prople wouldn't be working as hard.  Cooperation may help someone to succeed, but the person has to work to achieve success by themself.  Competion brings out the best out of people while cooperation doesn't bring out the best of a person abilities.  Competition is helps to achieve success more than cooperation does.
