As we progress through the modern age of technolgy, in the era of consuming information from the digital medium; branding, companies, and advertisers are constant finding new ways to develop "eye catching" advertisment to the products they sale. This could be because of the modern trend of minimalism, and the ideology that less is more. More so, if we go back in history we can see how the modernist movement have created a sort of response from arts, people, and even companies. in response, advertisments has slowly evovled to take advantage of attention spans of indivuals. As we become more busy we crave for simple, coloful, often bright advertisment to quickly give us the answers or information we need. 

This is a double edge sword, as images can become powerful pieces of information (show dont tell) giving us what we need without say too much or showing too much,but at the same time it can mislead us to certain unwanted interprestation or have little to n0 information about the product or person we are seeing/hearing. What this does is gives companies and advertiser a lot of power to manipulate and alter the way they present their product. Therefore, because of sociatal fabric and norms (ie. Capitalism) Images will eventualy become powerful tools to effect the mass consumer market. What they buy, how they recieve information, and when and where they will recieve this advertisment(phone , tv, etc..); will all be detrimental to the impact of the images they see. 


As technology improves and becomes more accessable to the puble. The more likely companies can reach a wide varity of people and target audience. For example, as apple develop into a more elaborate company, the more likley the company will start to create more specfic ads for their constumers. We see it already, all they have to do is to show a sillouete of their new Iphone and immidiatly we can already understand what the product is. However, the problem with this simple and minimal appoach is that constumers does not get all the information that is need to make an informed impression of all the capabilites. This allows apple to show what they want to show. The best features, the best design, etc. What they dont tell you however, is the 3 year OLED panel they use, the 60 hz fresh rate they still use( market standard is 120 Hz for 3 years already). 
