Today I am writting an essey on Sucess, whether its achieved by cooperation or by competition.

In my opinion success is achieved both with cooperation and with compeition.
but mostly cooperation plays more important role because no one can go up on the ladder without anyone's support. 

In simple terms if we live daily life also, we can't live without other's support for example- for our daily need of grocery or farmer products we are dependent on grocery shops, shops are dependent on the supplychain, supplychain would get supply on from local vendor, and local vendors would get stuff from the farmers. Thus, all this comes with close coordination and close operation. We can't say that we are living an independent life without any coordination or other's support. In same way when we work for our sucsess in corporate world, there is a group of team working together for themselves also and for us or our growth also, and as a whole we do grow in life and career.

In some cases competition works for success, like games, where only criteria of success is to compete with others and leave other behind to proove that you are the best. In such case no athelete or player can win without competition. Here either player is playing alone and competing with other players OR group of players like cricket team or football team is playing togather to compete with other group of people, but there is competition which is deciding factor for winning and loosing. In such case if both teams start working in coopration and play with coordination , it will ruine the purpose of the game and there will not be any winner, unless its a match fixing .... lol..

But in real life, family and corporates cooperation plays important role. 
Here it is also important to know what is success.. if we look at our family, there is lot of cooperation needed in family as well but winning and loosing is the not the purpose, peace, togatherness and living happy is what is success.. which is only possible with close cooperation in family members. 

So, to conclude, with both the examples i.e .. outer world and inner world i.e family, in my opinion cooperation is most important factor of successful life and happy life. 









