Happiness is a subjective, fleeting feeling--not a state of being. That being said, feeling happy is important for the well-being of a society. People are more likely to experience happiness if they focus on their own personal goals because humans, being social creatures, require each other to live and flourish as a whole community.

Freedom of choice is an important characteristic of the human condition. Countries throughout the history of humanity have fought and died for their freedoms. Therefore, it is crucial to recognize that being free to choose is key to experiencing happiness. Some people may argue that people need to be governed and directed for their own good. This is a false argument. People who believe this argument to be true mistakenly believe that the feeling of control they get from exerting their will onto others will satisfy their needs for security. This is how revolutions begin and empires fall. Each and every great empire has fallen due to power struggles.

Once an individual is liberated from the choice to sacrifice their autonomy in order to survive, society as a whole can begin to flourish. Take a look at the science fiction television show, Star Trek. The galactic federation in that show represents a futuristic community where all basic human needs are met: food, shelter, security, love, and freedom. When all of these human needs are provided for, the individuals are free to choose their own career path, their love life, and even their leisurely pursuits. I believe the global human society needs to follow in the foot steps of this fiction in order to have a chance at attaining a happier society.

While I do think it is possible for human beings to feel happy when they are focused on goals besides their own happiness, I think this philosophy invites too many instances of abuse. Dictators have risen to power throughout history with the promise of happiness if, and only if, citizens sacrifice their own freedom to acheive the goal of the despot. That goal is absolute power over others, a sinister and self-centered desire fueled by primitive and personal psychological wounds. I believe most dictators would fall under several pathological antisocfial categories. Take a look at Putin and his rule over Russia. He persuades and commands his people to die for him, yet owns a 700 million dollar super yacht--and this is just the tip of the iceberg concerning his immeasurable wealth. How can someone like Putin so easily command the death and destruction of a neighboring country, let his own people starve and wallow in poverty, and enjoy such luxuries? We might say that Putin himself experiences happiness, but to ignore the terror and distraught his goals have on his people and those around him would be missing the point.

In conclusion, humanity's happiness would greatly improve once basic needs are met for everyone, and everyone has the choice to follow their own passions and dreams. In the current state of the world, billions of people are forced to work jobs that have severe effects on their physical, emotional, and mental health in order to survive. Human beings are resilient and adaptive by nature, so there are still precious moments of happiness to be found despite these circumstances. It is rare to find those people who have the privilege, determination, and know-how to connect their passions and dreams with a job that pays them a living wage. Let's continue to hope that one day the fictional world of Star Trek will become a reality for us--a world where pain and discomfort still exist, but humanity has bonded together to prevent the unnecessary suffering that we have appointed on each other.
