      Today, there's so much hustle and bustle when it comes to accomplishing goals. Success in life is the ultimate goal for most and how we achieve our victories and wins is the key. Can a basketball player accomplish his goals all by himself? Can a doctor perform a surgery completely alone? Do they cooperate in conjunction with others, win together so-to-speak, or do they compete with others and celebrate success independently? One or the other may work for some and for others, perhaps both works for them.
     The question is whether or not cooperation or competition is best,
and one needs to ask themself first how peer pressure effects them and how team-led encouragement effects them. Does a person feel more empowered when they are working on something alone or do they feel more empowered and included when it's a cooperative effort? Everybody is different, indeed, but is it possible that competition does more harm than good or that cooperation does more harm than good? 
    Most people grew up as kids in a very competitive world, going to school, playing in sports, playing games, and then eventually finding themselves in competitive workspaces. Alot of people are stressed out, losing hope in many areas of life. There has been a heavy dose of comparison injetcted upon society in recent years with social media use on the rise. For that reason, we can see the results of how a fast-paced, work hard for what others have kind of life, can effect others. People view others living a perfect life online or they see someone else constantly winning while they never gets a chance. That pressure can really instill negative thoughts about one's self value. There's many who fear they won't get the dream job or the significant other of their dreams, because of the competiton out there, so they never reach for more and stop going after what they want.
    Although a little friendly competition is always good, there's almost too much competition in all aspects of our lives where unessesary.  There comes a time when cooperation is needed and not just to accomplish something, but to also feel the human connection. It is an essential element to living a healthy life and to produce the best game plays, work projects, friendships, relationships etc, you must know how to get along with others and be a team player. It's imperative, actually, to succeed in anything, you must not do everything soley alone. You have to ask for help at some point, you have to rely on others at some point, and you have to allow yourself to feel unified with others. It'll guarentee a win for everybody and produce those lasting accomplishments that everybody is seeking.
