The meaning of life, regardless of what other sources may say, is happiness. Nothing matters when you die, not anything you did or left behind, so the only thing there is that means anything is enjoyment of life while you have it. In that vein, life is best enjoyed in the pursuit of your own happiness. If that happiness happens to come from helping others, that's fantastic, and if not, that's just as well. Happiness for its own sake, regardless of the reason, is the only real reason for life.

I struggled for a time to find the meaning of my life. I found, upon reflection, that nothing I could ever realistically do would make a lasting impact on anyone. Most of us will never make a lasting impact on anyone. Therefore, the only meaning of life is happiness. My happiness. So long as I feel happy, I've done as much as I can.

Some might say that's a destructive worldveiw. If we all only look out for our own happiness, the world at large suffers. Maybe. But not everyone is as selfish as me. My happiness comes from writing sleazy fanfiction and playing video games. Someone else's happiness comes from fire-fighting or saving people's lives in a hospital. That's still happiness for one's own sake, it just happens to come from helping others.

In conclusion, live for yourself. Be happy for its own sake and for your own sake. Remember that nothing really matters and in the end, we've got one life. Might as well try to make it a happy one.

--

So, the fact that y'all gave me 30 minutes and a helpful little yell-box when I've been inactive for 2 whole minutes really makes me wonder how much you expected people to write. I cracked that "essay" out in like 7 minutes and I have no idea what else to write. I dunno, I hope y'all weren't going for quality and I also hope y'all don't mind me kinda having this heart-to-heart down under the main blurb. There wasn't any rule against it.

Aaanyway, sorry for the brevity ( I don't think I spelled that right), I'm just gonna space bar + backspace for the remaining 14ish minutes. On the upside, I added like an extra hundred words just kinda rambling! I don't know if that's actually an upside. Probably not since it's off-prompt, huh?

--

I got bored. Any of y'all like Hazbin Hotel? I know it's one of those things you're not supposed to like if you wanna be progressive, but I just love Angel Dust so much. Paranoid DJ on YouTube makes good Hazbin Hotel fan-songs. I don't know how they get voices that sound like the characters, it's wild. I mean, I guess they could contact the voice actors, but I heard Angel Dust's voice actor can't sing and this song (Use Me Up) slaps, so I don't know. Either they got a sick voice match or I heard wrong.

Speaking of things we're not supposed to like for progressive reason, I miss when Harry Potter wasn't contentious. Fucking JK Rowling fucking up the whole franchise. I heard it's more impressive to know your Pokemon team than to know your Hogwarts house, though.

To be honest, I've never played a Pokemon game. Shh, don't tell anyone, I'll get my nerd card revoked. But I did end up making a team. It's all ghost types. That's my favorite type. It was sure alot harder than picking Slytherin, that's for sure. I guess that's why it's more impressive.

I really am risking my bonus here, huh? Well, like I said, it wasn't in the rules that I couldn't just spit once I was done with the essay. I would've left it at the essay too if the thing didn't yell at me for inactivity. So, poking the bear a little harder here, it's really on y'all.

Okay, I'm done risking my paycheck. I have 2ish minutes left so I should be able to sit still and not get yelled at again before the time runs out. Sorry this whole rambly bit is longer than the actual essay!
