    I will be providing an opinion essay based on the question "Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others?"  My perspective comes from over 3 years of living in different scenarios and being on a personal journey of finding happiness for myself.  I have experience with personal goal setting and how it feels to reach my goals, and I also have experience taking actions to affect the mood of others.  Specifically as a wife and mothers, I am often in situations where my goal is to make people happy and help them to avoid sadness or discomfort.  With that being the case, I do not believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus only on their personal goals or only on the happiness of others.  I believe that a person must focus on both of these actions to be happy.  So, a person is more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals and on the hapiness of others.  I will provide reasons for my opinion in the following paragraphs.  The opinions given assume that there are no underlying mental or emotional health conditions of the people who are trying to achieve happiness.
    Consider people who live their lives without personal goals.  Typically these people are not happy.  Not having personal goals is often associated with anxiety or despression, and both of those conditions are usually characterized by sadness.  Now, consider that you have personal goals, but you never have time to work on the tasks that it takes to meet those goals.  Maybe you try to complete the tasks, but you fail.  Most people are not happy when they are failing to meet their personal goals for whatever reason.  Happiness is considered the opposite of sadness or anger, and if both of those scenarios are associated with sadness or anger then it suffices to say that most people need to feel like they are succeeding in accomplishing their own goals to be happy.
    Now, let's consider a person who only focuses on the happiness of others or the improvement of humanity.  In these cases, we typically measure the actions we take by how happy we actually made our intended target feel or the impact that we had on a specific situation.  We can not succeed at making everyone happy all the time, and there are always a plethora of problem to improve regarding humanity.  Based on this, it seems as if tying our happiness to the happiness of others or the progress of humanity is sure to fail.  Sure, most people will be happy if they actually succeeded in making others happy, but they will probably be sad if they do not meet this goal.  I am assuming that the people in question actually have others that they can make happy.  My reason for this assumption is that anxiety or depression is usually associated with having unhealthy relationships.  As stated in the previous paragraph, anxiety and depression are characterized by a feeling of sadness or worry, which are oppositve of happiness.
   My conclusion is that people are more likely to be happy if they balance focusing on their personal goals and on the happiness of others.  Based on the explanations above, it seems that an even stronger since of happiness is likely to happen if those two scenarios can coincide.  So, if focusing on personal goals directly makes others happy, then an even more intense sense of happiness is likely to occur. 
 Please note that this essay does not discuss on what the proportions of this balance should be.  I believe that it varies for different people.  I have only determined that some balance of meeting personal goals and engaging with others to make them happy is necessary for personal happiness.
