      "Judge not according to appearance, but judge with righteous judgment." The previous admonition given by Jesus many years ago seems simple enough. Are not his words obvious? Don't lawyers collect evidence, and call witnesses in court to establish of deny the veracity of case. Jesus' words were just as appropros then as they are today. But maybe, more so today, in the digital age. The information age has made many words and images accessible, but few comprehend their importance.
        For example, people possess an insatiable desire for friends, so they flood social media sites looking for the newest member of this cherished circle. Unfortunately, there is little to any facetime spend with these individuals to determine if there is even a commonality between those involved. Loyalty, dependability and accountabilty are not prerequsites for becoming a "friend." All that is required is the click of a button, and the coveted "friend-count" is increased by one. Because of this superficial appropriation, more and more people continue to amass friends in direct proportion to their loneliness. Friendship used to be a product of kindred spirits; today, there is no time to invest that much in people, because convincing ouselves that large numbers of friends will suffice.
       We know however, that this is furthest from the truth. The rise in depression, suicides, and broken families all continue to rise as we ride a way of "images and impressions." Jesus' warning is very timely, because He is charging us to dig down, and get to the heart of every matter. It has become very easy to ignore people's true feelings, because they are always masked with smiles. But these smiles very often cover much pain within.
        Another example of images and appearances leading the course of life involves  celebrity-worship that pervades our society. Rather than seek, nay, demand, a person of honor or value in one's own life, people flock to the lives of those they will never meet. People have become fixated on the unreal, rather than being real themselves. This is very unfortunate, as people seek role models from strangers than from those in their own social circles. How can this be? We have sown to the wind, and we are reaping a whirlwhind of nothingness.
      It is high time for us to dismiss the plattitudes and facades. We must focus on the more important, deeper aspects of life before we loose ourselves in nothingness.
