     Competition is a very common and natural thing.  It has existed  for as long as humans have been around.  It exists in both or personal and professional lives. When you look around you see it in our sporting events,game shows,colleges and work groups. Many people are raised and thrive in competing against others but is it the best way to achieve success.  Some people say yes others will disagree that cooperation is the key to success. 
     Today it seems that competition is not as valuable as it once was.  In fact many people look down upon others for competiting versus cooperating with others.  It seems that cooperating with others allows you to have the benefit of the ideas of others and working as a team you can accomplish what you are trying to do more effectively and efficiently.  Cooperating does not mean that your individual accomplishments will not be valued but that they are less likely to be showcased.  Some people feel that cooperating means that you have to give up something in return but this is not the case.  Cooperation focuses on the success of both parties involved.
     For many people it is the end goal that matters most rather than winning.  Cooperation amoungst a team or group can help to form relationships that are longer lasting then a individual accomplishment.  Many times those group goals and accomplishments are more memorable than an individual one as the bonds formed can be life lasting.  These accomplishments also hold true regarding tasks on a bigger picture.  For instance, the accomplishments of the United States alone are less significant than when many countries pull together and work and cooperate together to accomplish goals that affect a larger group of people.  
     You can also observe this success in your own life.  In a family do you have more lasting accomplishments if you work together as a family or as individuals?  Working as a team or unified group gives you a feeling of satisfaction and togetherness that you just don't feel on your own.  While cooperating you also play off of each other's strengths and weaknesses that can ultimately lead to a more complex yet solidified result.  
     This is not to say that a healthy competition is not useful or has it time or place.  Being competitive is natural and something that will always exist.  It drives us to want to try our best and to try and reach beyond our potential.  Would you being willing to always put yourself out there if there was no one to compare you accomplishments to?  The gratification or sense of accomplishment would not be the same.  Competition is and will always exist whether we like it or not. A good rivalry makes for a great story and gives people something to look forward to.  
     In the end there is not a clear cut answer to what is better or the more correct path to success.  One must decide what is best based on the situation or circumstance.  One must also be able to live and accept the choices that they make.  Success does not have the same meaning if you feel bad because of the path you chose to get there.  For many it is not worth it to reach success at the expense of others. Ultimately one has to decide the path that is best for them.  Competition will never cease to exist but whether or not you compete with dignity and grace is up to you.  Cooperation will and always will be necessary in some cases but whether or not it is the best way to achieve success is purely circumstantial and subjective.



