There are a lot of theories about what is most likely to make a person truly happy. They range from being completely selfless to being completely selfish.It seems like everyone is looking for a cure-all to find happiness these days. Temperary happiness can be found in money, experiences, possessions, places, or even people. But lasting and internalized happiness can only be developed and grown from within not found. Sure, helping other people can bring happiness and even righteous happiness at that.But lasting happiness, the kind that beats depression when it is night, blooms through taking care of yourself, finding what motivates you, and then accepting yourself for who you are and for who you strive to become. People are most likely to be happy when they focus on their own personal goals and work to take care of themselves.

The first way happiness blooms is through taking care of yourself. Sometimes the first thing to go when you are trying to show that you are happy to others is the literal food and water of your life. We spend so much time trying to show others that we are developoing our talents in so many different areas and fail to just take care of our badies and minds. Happiness comes when we just sit down and eat a meal that we planned, when we read a book that we wanted to read last year, or when we take a nap, no matter what time of day it is or what the experts said about sleep cycles. I have found in my own life that when i do the basics for taking care of my body and my mental health, others say " wow, you seem so happy". Even if I did not do a grand gesture or show that I finished a huge project, I took care of what was best for me which helps  me in turn take care of others in the long run.

The other ways happiness blooms can be reslated to the process of goal making. You never want to make a goal for something you are not motivated in. This just brings sadness when it inevitably fails. Through understand what works for you and doesn't, happiness comes when you see yourself improving and growning. On the same note, When you understand yourself, you can better accept yourself for the way you get things done or how you may be different from others who have a easy time with a certain task. For example, I am generally not interested in generic exercise routines. They are a bore for me. Other people could go to the gym all day and work out, but I have to find creative ways to work my body and keep it in shape. Although this sometimes alienates me from others, because I don't want to join the morning run with the girls, I have learned to love the crazy ways of exercise. Things like dancing with a toddler, push-mowing the lawn, gardening, and running up and down stairs are what I love to do. I am not the picture perfect but it makes me happy to do the things that I love and not the things that everyone else expects me to love. By accepting myself and making my own methods for becoming a better me, I find happiness.

Others say don't be selfish. But I do not find it selfish to look after yourself and your own goals. Long Lasting happiness can only be found interally and that is done through taking care of yourself, finding what moves you, and then letting you be you as you strive to be a better person. As you do that, the happiness and the contentment for life grows and you find that external things do not matter as much as you thought they did. You find that you matter more than you ever thought you did and you want to, in turn, share that with others. For, as you take time for yourself and your own happiness, you seem to have more time for others as well.
