There a quite a few commercials on television nowadays that we remember because they are clever or really humorous but talk to anyone you know about them and we cannot ever recall what the actual product was that was being sold whether its car insurance, room spray, or a vacation resort. How in the world do the companies behind these items expect to get our business if we don't recall them from their television ads? Also, there are big sporting stars and entertainers that companies pay big bucks to to advertise their products. But are these stars and entertainers really users of these products? Probably not. They are using their companies just as well as the companies are using their big names for promotion. We will remember that we saw that favorite singer, actor, or football star in an advertisement but can we, in most cases, connect this personal back to their product that they were trying to bring our attention to? In most cases, we can't. 

When we are actually in a store and we are looking over the products on the shelves, a lot of times it is clever packaging that catches our attention. Companies use key wording on their labels to get us to pick them up and look them over. Sometimes its the bright coloring on the label or that keyword that strikes a cord with us and we say okay, this one seems to speak to me, so I'll buy it.  Each of us is looking for a particular product to fill an internal need that we have.  What I may buy or be interested in, the next person may not. Its just what you are in need of at the time and what item(s) you see that strike a cord in you.

We have all bought items home from a store that we've maybe used once or twice, figured oh this isn't doing what I thought it would and its either been relegated to a drawer or stuck on a shelf never to be used again. Yet the company has our money and we really should be able to return items back to the store and get that money back but no one ever takes the time to do that. Imagine if your local drug store sells a blood pressure monitor for $70. Customers who have bought this cuff are using it but feeling like its giving inaccurate readings because they recall when their doctor takes their bp that it was significantly lower than what this drug store monitor is reading. Most customers will probably complain to someone and tell them how they just purchased it but feel they cannot rely on it to give an accurate reading. Yet, they still keep the item. If ten people do this, then the drug store has collected $700 from customers and what do the customers have? An item that they can't rely on and probably are no longer using. It's just money wasted.
