The catastrophic results of living in a world of social media, instapics, plastic surgery, selfies, filters, wikipedia and blogs, the population of impressionables has become lazy about critical thinking, news versus opinion and fact versus fiction. In merely two short decades, we have slid down the slippery slope that started with works cited on our books reports to taking anything on Facebook as fact and accepting ridiculously photshopped images as true and much worse, the standard. Fake tans, fake vacations, fake posts, brand name knock-offs - all in the name of being the best, the prettiest, the most successful. 

When you look at the effects of social media and the direct correlation to depression, the evidence is overwhelming. Images of wealth are flashing before their eyes on Instagram, and not for a moment do they even stop to realize the private jet is a rental, the clothes are rented, the luxury apartment is an Airbnb, and those abs are photoshopped. This lack of discernment leads to body image issues, dissatisfaction with life and rocketing incidents of suicide in the today's youth. 

Similary, in the adult population, "fake news" and fake news are wreaking havoc on the fabric of society in crippling waves. With source and fact-checking being mere remnants of the past, people are rallying behind fictitious numbers and fabrications of reality through non-credible sources. As a population, in American, rather than holding our politicians accoutnable, we have lowered as a group to hurtful memes and funny Youtube videos rather than looking at the platform and the message and the cold, hard facts. How has this come to be? We simply, as a society are taking everything at face value. 

From rocketing suicide rates in young adults and even pre-teens to an absolute political and social crisis, these current and disturbing trends can all be traced back to our global addiction to social media, shocking news, and the desire to be seen by as many people as possible. Our need to be adored in visual form and create a plastic, sparkly Barbie and Ken life has replaced the desire for truth, for integrity, for honesty and for authencity. Almost as quickly as an avalanche overtakes a mountainside, the glitz and glam of sensationalism and influencer culture are wiping away both the intelligence and heart of society. 
