Cooperation and competition are definitely ways many people may choose to succeed in their lives. I feel the more sincere a person is the more likely they would choose to cooperation while that could be a wee bit more difficult than choosing competition. I have always chosen do my best to choose cooperation rather than comptetition even though there were times when I felt that choosing competition would allow me to reach my goals quicker. During the decades that I worked (mostly as a legal assistant), I felt many people concentrated more on competition than on cooperation. And, as a result, I learned to appreciate more those that cooperated with others than the individuals that chose competition over cooperation. 

Learning new tasks was never difficult for me, but I did see co-workers experiencing some difficulty when assigned a new task. I looked forward to cooperating with these individuals and helping as much as I could. 

When attending college, my major was education. I did attend a small college (now a university), and education was the most likely choice for most of the students. As it turns out, education was a good choice for me. During and after graduation, I found that teaching was important to me and something I greatly enjoyed. After majoring in educatiion, on all of my future jobs, any time I was in a situation where one of co-workers had questions on how to proceed, I looked forward to answering their questions each time that I could. I felt a sense of gratefulness that I was able to help. While I never taught full time, I did do substitute teaching, and I enjoyed that as well. I did my best to cooperate (i.e. assist) the teacher who was unable to attend class that particular day. I found myself always asking the students what was the last page of their textbook that their teacher had covered on the day before I was selected to come to their class. Always one of the better students pointed out where I should begin teaching. My desire to cooperate with the teacher not there that day proved to be appreciated. These teachers began frequently asking that I be their substitute whenever they had to miss a day of work. Deep down I knew that my cooperation was appreciated.

Doing whatever I could to help my co-workers and cooperating with them was also a far better experience that concentrating on competiting with them. It was noticed by virtually all of my supervisors. And many of my co-workers quickly learned that when they had questions, they could come to me to see if they could learn more. 

As a result, of the positive reactions I experienced throughout my life while cooperating with co-workers also added positive effects to my life. My boss (or supervisor) also appreciated the fact that I was willing to co-operate with my co-workers and expressed their appreciation of my abilities and willingness to help other workers. At times, this did lead to a wage increase. It makes me slightly sad that the willingness to teach and cooperate did not lead to a higher level of promotion during the many years that I worked, but I did retire with a sense of accomplishment over my willingness to help, teach and cooperate. I will always feel that those with the same qualities deserve more than most eventually achieve.

While cooperating with my co-workers did result in more job satisfaction, it also helped those with whom I worked. I would highly recommend cooperating with co-workers versus competiting with them. As far as I am concerned, cooperation was far more successful than competiting.
