        The dynamic of society has changed over the course of hundreds of years in many ways. Once, we sought out only necessities like food and shelter, but developments in our way our life make us crave more. Our current society has developed to a point where new innovations have made our lives easier, and have introduced conviniences and luxuries that are not necessary to life, but make it more interesting or pleasurable. In the wake of these new advancements and developments, society has become materialistic. We see things, we want things. Many are critical of this aspect of our society, claiming that people are being selfish or greedy, especially because of the negative impacts it has on the environment. However, materialism brings pleasure which makes life funner.

       Materialism has skyrocketed thanks to demand and innovation. Once this innovation helped us secure greater and faster access to our necessities, but now they have helped us create things that we did not always or ever need to survive. For example. entertainment is so accessible now thanks to cellphone and televisions. Additionally, companies like Amazon have made the mass production of these items affordable. Because of this mass production and our own greed, we have had a negative impact on the environment. A lot of this production calls for more energy, which in turn, damages our environment.

      Although materialism has been shown to negatively impact our environment as a result of greed, it has allowed us to indulge in pleasures that make life more fun. A world in which people just went to work to live is boring. Materialism has allowed us to spend time enjoying things outside of what we have to do just to surivive. For example, eneteratainment is a pleasure that lets us relax or enjoy ourselves after a day of work. We cannot blame ourselves for enjoying the simple things that we are about to enjoy in life.

     Materialism is very bad for the environment, but some argue that we will not live long enough to see the impacts of on the environment. So why should it matter if we do not want to be concious about our materialism? This argument is a selfish one but it speaks to how materialism actually dictates the way we behave. A lot of the time, the most materialistic people are those who can afford to be. Not everyone can afford to be materialistic, but it is true that it for the most part challenges the dynamics of society and equality. 

