A famous adage states, "A picture is worth a thousand words." With photoshop and other photo editing software, those thousand words may be total lies. Yet everyday, media organizations and individual citizens publish photos that are clearly doctored. What's more, the advent of hyperrealistic but edited videos called "deepfakes" means we can't even trust what our eyes see in videos. Despite this reality, millions of people daily find themselves feeling inferior to models in photoshopped images or suckered by the misinformation in a deepfake video. How can this be so? These problems are caused by a major problem in our modern society: images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.

One area where images and impressions reign supreme is in Hollywood. Celebrities must have a social media presence and stay visible in the public eye. They complain about the paparazzi, but they also depend on them for their success. And they need to look flawless when doing so. One photo of a makeup-free celebrity with tired eyes at the airport captivates America. When an aging actress has a botched cosmetic surgery to keep up with modern beauty standards, what was once relegated to tabloid covers at the grocery checkout is now viral across the web. Instead of worrying about the very real problems in our personal lives or in the world, we are obsessing over Sharon Stone's face.

It isn't just movie stars who face this hyperfixation on image. Politicians deal with it too. Every detail of a candidate's appearance is scrutinized, from the color of the tie to the placement of the American flag pin. Let a fly land on Donald Trump's head during a debate, and dozens of memes sprout up instanteously. The image overpowers the words.  Female candidates must look attractive but not too attractive, strong but not too strong. The balancing act is nearly impossible, which might be part of the reason is it hard for women to have fair representation in politics.

Some may argue that images *should* have a large effect. It's true that they can tell us a lot. A quick glance at someone's body language can reveal that their words have no substance. The symbolic color of a politician's blouse can spark valuable conversation about women's rights. A photo snapped at the right moment, capturing a protestor boldy facing police in riot gear, can inspire in ways that a written news article cannot. While these examples show the power of the image, they are the exceptions rather than the rule. Images are just as likely to divide as they are to unite, to distract as they are to galvanize. And the image alone can't always capture the total context of the situation to sway the public. We have the caption, the article, and the conversation at the dinner table to do that.

While these examples have focused on those with some power -- celebrities, politicians, and the media -- the ordinary citizen is affected most. When almost everyone has an advanced camera in their pocket at all times, it's no wonder that we are obsessed with images. Instead of enjoying our vacation, we spend all of our energy documenting it and posting it on social media. Rather than soak in the concert, we are distracted by filming it. We know the impact an image can have on people, and we crave their attention and likes more than we crave an authentic experience. Sadly, it is hard to imagine a future where this isn't a reality. We have five senses, but so much emphasis is put on the visual that we are cheating ourselves of rich sensory experiences and a truly meaningful existence. So what's the solution? Put down the phone, turn off the screen, talk to a friend, go outside, play an instrument, avoid the mirror. Envision what your life could be.
