Our consumerist society has placed far too much importance on perception over reality, much to its detriment. We see it everyday with the way advertisements sell products on their image and speak little to the actual value of the product. We see it with the way celebreties dominate the modern discourse, dictating trends in culture based off the most vapid perceptions. And sadly, this focus on what we see far too often takes away from the value of what really is. It is in essence a cynical ploy on the human psychology to distract the masses by visual delights and the promise of instant gratification at the expense of the greater value that can be achieved without the aforementioned distractions that this focus on images and impressions have on people.

Take for example the plethora of ads we see on TV, social media, and practically every where we go. These ads are designed with visual flairs to catch our attention, and then rely on brand perception to make sales as opposed to offering explanation for the product's benefits. It's the reason why people choose to buy Advil instead of store-brand Ibuprofen, despite the two products being essentially the same in terms of ingredients and dosages. This focus on gravitating towards brand names leads towards monopolies of product and culture, with giants like Amazon and Disney increasingly consuming lesser brands into its sphere of influence and control. And when so much power is centralized in these monopolies, they have free reign to arbitrarily raise prices and pocket record profits year after year with little market opposition. There's a reason people are willing to pay in excess of $2000 every year for the latest version of the IPhone with minor upgrades from the previous version that came out just a year before. Apple's brand - its image - ends up holding far more weight than the reality of the products and services it offers.

The same applies for celebrities. Far too often we idolize these public figures and pay them excessive attention and money that far outweighs the value they provide to society. Yes, Johnny Depp is a talented actor whose Pirates of the Caribbean movies were incredibly in demand, and the profits of those movies warrant his own sizeable income ($20 million per movie), but on an abstract level with no market forces at play, is his acting $20 million dollars better than any one else who may have auditioned for the role of Captain Jack Sparrow? Moreover, is his personal worth and fame the reason we have near-endless discussions about his potential abusive relationships but don't pay the same attention to the average person in a similar situation? There comes a point where our focus on a celebrity's image and life can lead to societal distraction to it's own detriment. Take for example the Chris Rock - Will Smith scandal. Did the news cycle really have to be dominated for 2+ weeks about the reasons for the slap while Ukraine was being invaded by Russia at the same time? Was that Oscars slap more important than the invasion? That is what society tells us when it places this importance on celebrity brand and image over real important issues.

Based on the foregoing, it is clear to see that society places way too much importance on images and impressions over reality, often to the detriment of the many and the benefit of the select few who take advantage of this distraction.
