It is undeniable that all human beings need to possess some objects in order to survive in modern culture. In order to eat, most people own various tools to prepare and preserve food. Similarly, most humans own clothing, grooming products, and cash/cards in order to gain access to these necessities, amongst other items. Increasingly, it is becoming necessary to own some form of technology in order to maintain relationships with other people, to work, and to carry out day-to-day tasks. Owning all of these things may seem excessive from the perspective of societies even a few centuries ago, but in the modern age, only owning these things would be considered minimalistic rather than materialistic. 

That being said, there are certainly people who place a great deal of value on the things they own. Consider the retirees that buy a convertible which gets driven maybe two weeks out of the year and then collects dust in the garage, existing only for the sake of allowing the owner to boast of the make and model in casual conversation. Or for that matter, think of the teenager who insists that all of their clothing must have the logo of a particular chic brand blazoned in large lettering. Such cases are only examples of familiar, fairly moderate materialism. These attitudes are not uncommon, but seem to lack any form of deep satisfaction and meaning. If the goal of modern society is to promote value beyond money in its citizens, then it must become critical of the materialism that runs rife within it.

Some may contest that materialism is not necessarily an evil at all, with good reason. One would much rather live in a society filled with materialists than, say, a society comprised of compulsive liars or of malevolent psychopaths or of inconsiderate slobs. Certainly the retiree with the largely unused convertible may be a bit tactless if he brags about his car too much, but boastfulness doesn't do any real harm to anyone beyond encouraging a little bit of envy and perhaps a few eyerolls. However, materialism might be considered as a type of contemporary "sin of ommission". It is not the worst of evils, but it is certainly no virtue. Worse, materialism can get in the way of finding deeper meaning and peace in life.

The idea of "keeping up with the Joneses" is a great way to conceptualize this. Some people find themselves constantly trying to match (or just as often, to outdo) those around them in terms of their material possessions. If a neighbor buys a new camper, then these people feel compelled to buy one as well in order to feel that they have earned the right to be with these neighbors. Yet none of these people ever seem to reach a point where they feel satisfied. They may feel a few moments of glee when they buy the next new thing or when they outdo the other people in their lives. But ultimately, they always return to the mindset of clinging onto their perceived status by competing with others. None of them act in the way that truly happy people act. This is one of the saddening consequences of an overly materialistic society. 
