Have you ever wondered what most people think makes them the most happy? Is it when they focus and accomplish their own goals? Or maybe it's when they focus on the happiness of others. This argument has been going on for quite some time, and everyone has their own opinion on it. On one side of things, one can become happy because of that feeling when they accomplish a goal. That feeling of satisfaction. On the other hand, making someone else happy can definitely make yourself feel good about yourself, knowing that you can change someones life. You never know what someone is going through. I firmly believe that the key to someones happiness is more leaning towards focusing on other peoples happiness, rather than focusing on their own personal goals. 

Both of these will lead to happiness. However, I think it is more important to put other people first. For me, when I make someone else happy, it makes me feel better instantly on the spot. Sometimes I'll think about it for a bit, knowing their face and how glad they were that someone else cared. You never know what someone is going through, and you could make a huge difference for them. For example, helping the homeless. There is no doubt that this has been a problem for a long time, but actually helping someone (giving them food, water, not even just money), gives you a feeling of contentment. On the other hand of things, people may argue that focusing on their own personal goals makes them happy. Yes, that is definitely the case as well. Someone can work towards their goal for years, and finally be happy that they reached it. But then what? You make another goal, and work towards that. When you focus on making someone else's day and focus on them, you can help them feel happy and maybe even help yourself. Factors such as self-esteem and friends can have a huge impact on your happiness. You should definitely make goals, but what if you made those goals on helping someone else be happy? You'll be reaching a goal and focusing on someone else. For example, a personal goal could lead to getting a job or obtaining a certain amount of money. That's amazing that you reached that goal, but sometimes things happen. Your money can run out, you can lose your job. Friends on the other hand are not so easy to lose. As long as you focus on their happiness more than not, if they're a true friend they will stick with you forever and help you find happiness too. I'm also not saying that you should never focus on yourself. Too much of not focusing on yourself could eventually show bad side effects, so it's important to limit that focus of other people. But don't be selfish to the point that you never help anybody or their happiness. 

In conclusion, I believe that focusing on someone else's happiness is what makes a human more likely to be happy. A personal goal is super valuable to set for yourself and you should do that, but also focusing and giving to those who might be let down will make you feel even better inside. People will stick with you more than money will. People might say that it is important to focus on yourself so you could better yourself, and in some certain circumstances, this is correct. However, I argue that more times than not, in order to be truly happy, you need to put other people first ahead of you. As stated earlier, you never know what they could be going through. This message is not just for you, it should go both ways. If you start focusing on other peoples happiness, they may learn from you and start doing the same.
