     The question at hand is whether cooperation or competition will yield more achievements. Cooperation is working together with a team to complete a task. Cooperation can be working together during the entire project or simply doing your part in a larger task. Conversly competition is when a solely individual task is completed and then compared to the tasks of other individuals. Cooperation is the best way to see greater achviement both at an individual level and a team level. On an individual basis this may vary. However, overall there are trends that can show us whether cooperation or competetition with peers will result in higher achievements. I do not have access to those results currently so I will base my writing on what I do know from personal experience as a student, parent, friend, athlete, and employee. 

     I believe cooperation is the best way to get tasks accomplished. Each team member can shine in their own way and get better at what they do. If they get stuck on a task they can lean on their team members. They can also take more risks working as a team because the other team members work will combine with theirs so the acheivement can still be made even if they fail at their individual task. When a task is completed cooperatively the inidividual doesn't need to be focused so much on competing with other or being better than others. Instead their main focus can be on the task and doing it well. This will also result in better results than competition.      

     As a parents I see my daughter feel more confident when she completes a task and I applaud and critic her work without comparing it to the work of her friends. Comparing her work to others makes her feel like she did a bad job or a job that wasn't good enough. Instead, we focus more on what she's good at and what her friends are good at. We may all be good at different things and that's what makes us each special. We can use our strenghts to each contribute to a project and create something great. This results in higher confidence levels so that she can continue to work at getter better and both what she'd good at and what she can work on. Her high confidence levels motivates her to try new things. Even if she fails at those ocassionally she knows her strengths and can always fall back on those.                                
                                                                                                                                                                  
     Some might argue that competition is going to yeild greater results because participants will be motivated to continue trying harder and getting better. However, competition often results in burnout, anxiety, and stress. When a person fails individually they must then take the full responsibility of the failure. This can result in lower levels of confidence and risk taking. Without taking risks and trying new things lower levels of achievement are yeilded.

     In summation, cooperation will yeild better results compared to strict competition. This is an important thing for teachers, employers, and parents to keep in mind when assigning tasks. They might consider making the task a group projects versus setting a competition between students, employees, or children.  
