Some say that appearances are mistaken for reality. Advertising and social media have a strong influence on people and are often more important than reality. It doesn't have to be this way, but it often is.

If you ask anyone, they will probably tell you that they know the difference between real and fake. Of course instagram models use filters, of course food advertisements use doctored food, of course packaging is designed to influence purchasing. We all know this, yet we are still influenced. Take instagram. In theory, many people would agree that being yourself is important. However, one can see the influence of trends in young women specifically. Girls in middle school are contouring their faces with makeup to appear 20 years old. 18 year olds are getting nose jobs and lip injections. We live in a society where people claim to value uniqueness, yet strive to look the same in order to be attractive. I personally think that this type of influence has too much of a negative effect on people, causing unnecessary costmetic medical prodecures and more harmful things like eating disorders, which continue to be extremely widespread despite much awareness and discussion of them in the past few years.

Many would also argue that it's a problem that celebrities like Kim Kardashian, who are famous for basically doing nothing, are very famous. I personally don't really care; I think that all celebrity worship is harmful to a point and that it would be better if more people focused on other things. However, I personally think that in this case it doesn't really matter. Whether you like an overpaid rich person for their persona or their acting skills, does it matter?  It's still time spent on media consumption and personally I do not think that it matters if people have a surface level of appreciation for celebrities or something useful.

You can see in this essay that I believe that sometimes images and impressions have too much of an effect on people and sometimes it doesn't matter. I think in terms of consumerism and media consumption, it's something that we all acknowledge, and I think time and money spent on people and things that aren't maybe all that they seem is something that we all have conceded to. However, I do think it is problematic when these influences lead to negative effects on real people, such as social media causing young women to develop disorders.

