There is a saying: "A picture is worth a thousand words."  Nowhere is that more true than on the internet and in the media of today's world.

Back before the internet, people did a lot of reading, and many got the majority of their news that way.  Today, people, especially younger ones, don't want to read; they want to see and hear.   It's easier for many people to understand visual and audio, and it also fits in better with today's multitasking environment, as people can be doing something else while glancing and listening, while this isn't as possible when reading.   Also, lesser-educated people can understand many things presented in pictures/videos and sounds that they may have problems reading.  

This, however, has its pitfalls. A clever presenter can convey an easy-to-understand image of himself/herself, or of whatever ideas he/she is trying to convey, and much of the public will take it at face value.  Also, when somebody is viewing and listening, while doing something else at the same time, they may tend to accept whatever is being seen and heard at face value, rather than question it.    The savvy presenter can convey a picture in the minds of viewers that is vastly different than reality.    

Nowhere is this more evident than in politics, and especially in advertising.  Politicians or political groups (i.e. PAC's) promise things that they can't or won't deliver.  Aided by visuals, a politician or political group can present a credible and compelling case for what they are trying to persuade the viewers to believe, and/or whatever actions they are trying to get the viewer to perform.  They can present their candidate as the next coming of the Messiah and/or present the opponent as a pariah, when in fact, the reality may be the opposite or at best neutral.  

Advertising is a classic example of using images and impressions, and such goes back to the days when only print media existed, and such as newspaper ads or flyers made outlandish claims in order to entice readers.   That flashy 30 second TV spot of happy people enjoying a product or service, which supposedly betters their lives or helps in some way, attempts to leave an impression with viewers that they can't live without said product or service, or at least that they are missing out by not buying the product or service.   Such images and impressions generally ignore the downsides of the product or service, or in the case of pharmaceuticals, recite the disclaimers quickly, while continuing to bomb the viewers with happy and/or positive visuals of how their lives will be improved.

Supports of flash-bang visual reinforcment and the conveying of exaggerated (at best) impressions justify their actions in different ways. The most common one is "everybody else is doing it, so we need to in order to keep up."  The counter-argument to that is that one wrong doesn't justify another.  Another common rationalization is that the public has a short attention span; therefore the message (via audio/visual) must be made quickly, and it must be zealously overstated in order to leave the desired impression.  Critics counter that if the public needs to be bamboozled in this way, then the product, service, politician, etc. must not be able to stand on merit alone, and thus shouldn't be forced upon the public until it has enough substance to stand alone.  

The end result is that the public is bombarded with images, videos, audio, and print promising something that doesn't exist in the finished product, service, etc.  This leads to disappointment on the part of the viewer/consumer, and that leads to distrust, which hurts those who convey their goods and services in an honest way.  The honest merchants and politicians quickly learn that they need to match their less-honest counterparts, which leads to more misrepresentation, and thus to less trust by the public.   Less trust by the public leads to even gaudier, bolder, and brasher claims by the presenters.  And the vicious cycle continues.

The ideal way to prevent this is for presenters to be more honest about what they're trying to promote.  Since that isn't likely to happen, the government may need to intervene with a tougher "Truth in Advertising" (and politics) law, but that isn't likely to happen.  

The bottom line is that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people, because they can't/don't/won't go to the trouble of verifying what they see, hear, and read.  Sadly, there isn't really a way to fix it.
