    Happiness is an aim that we all strive for.  Happiness is something that any number of people can derive in any number of ways.  For many people happiness seems to stem from either a focus on what makes them happiest via acoomplishment of their personal goals, whereas others claim to derive the most happiness from helping others.  Here the differences are often drawn between personal motivations, or those that are more altruistic in their application.  
    When looking at motivations behind happiness as being either achievement of personal goals or the focus on the happiness in others, there are several examples that come to mind.  Often when we look to people who only focus on their own personal goals, we much more associate those with self-focused attention and selfishness.  It is often not socially acceptable to be fully focused on doing whatever one wants purely based on the fact that it will provide the most happiness for the individual.  Yet on the other hand, we have, and still do hold individuals who have focused on the happiness of others as pillars of a caring human spirit.  One need only look to such individuals as Mother Theresa who devoted their life to the well-being or happiness of others in sacrifice of what many would say was her own personal happiness.  While that may be, I beleieve that if we look for the seed of any motivation or production of happiness, we will find that it is infact all stemming from the very same basic personal goal focus that produces the happines.
    While Mother Theresa was draw to as a figure that focused her life to the benefit of others, it could be claimed that she derived a much greater level of happiness by focusing on the happiness of others.  In this we could very well draw the conclusion though that her happiness was fully derived from the happiness of others only because it was her personal goal to bring happiness to others.  It could further be argued that as oppossed to an altruistic focus that motivated actions for the goods of others, it was truly a self-focus on what made her the most happy, and that the happiness of others was only a achievement of her own personal goal.  In this manner, where the very basic motivation of a pillar of self sacrifice is laid bare and defined for what it is, we find that the only conclusion is that it is a focus on one's own happiness as the only factor that can bring about greater levels of happiness.
    Though it could be argued that an individual is not focused on their own happiness as the motivating factor behind bringing happiness to others, we find that such claims fail to live up to further clairification and scrutiny.  In such arguments we often find the claim that by the fact that the focus of the individual is on the benefit or happiness of others, that we need to disregard any internal focus or benefit that the individual is deriving for themselves.  While the end-all focus of the individual is achieved by the happiness of others via their actions, it is impossible to claim that the individual receives no benefit or reward from the accomplishment of their goals for the benefits of others.  One need ask if the actions of an individual such as Mother Theresa would be held in as high regard, or that the focus would be on the happiness of others, if she were a stock broker who claimed that her goals of becoming obscenely rich benefited others by a trickle down effect.  
    In essence, it has to be acknowledged that all individuals are much more likley to be happy when they focus on thier personal goals.  As we see with Mother Theresa, a focus on the happiness of others is only brought about by a true deep routed focus on self-happiness, and it is this personal focus on happiness that manifested itself in the helping of others.  If no personal happiness was derived from the helping of others, or if such a focus was detrimental to the welfare of the individual, such selfless giving would not have occurred.  As such, it must be acknowledged that it is in fact the focus on personal goals as the factor that is more likely to provide the greatest levels of personal happiness as oppossed to a focus on the happiness of others.
