 You often hear about making a good first impression, but is it possible for this to backfire in the end? If you soley focus on the first impression and wait till a later time for your true colors to show, would that be considered manipulative behavior? Does it matter what you look like as long as your a good person on the inside? 
    
I think a lot of use agree first impressions are important when meeting someone for the first time, especially when its someone you want to impress. I think its fair to say that you wouldnt be doing yourself any favors if you didn't atleast try to make a good first impression upon first meeting someone. I dont think theres anything wrong taking time to make yourself come across as more presentable and professional in any setting, whether it be a job interview, going out to socialize, or meeting a significant others family or any similar senario. Its human nature to want people to like and accept us and i think thats hard to do when you come across looking and acting like you dont care or arent interested in the person or the circumstances. If you show up somewhere you want to make a good impression and you havent showered and youre wearing dirty clothes with your hair a mess i think it makes it hard for people to see you as someone who cares. I think this can go for other things too. If you see a product on the shelf you are unfamiliar with and the packagaing looks like its from the 1980's and the box is all crumpled and falling apart you wouldnt even bother looking into if further, especially when its sitting on the shelf next to a ton of other products that all look neat, clean, and presentable. The ugly packaging doesnt mean its a bad product but the only people that would buy that product are those that are familiar with it and know the quality of whats on the inside of the packaging. With the fast lifestyles and short attention spans of today, I think having a good image on first glance is the only way for you to give yourself a chance.

At the end of the day, appearance isnt everything. 
 I think its important and I dont think it has "too much" of an affect on people. "Looks can be decieving" is a statement that can be taken both ways. You can look like a million dollars and still be a terrible person or vice versa. A product on the shelf could look like everything you ever wanted, but when you get it home and open its box it could be total garbage or vice versa. That being said, I think its important to come across as presentable, if not for anything it will let it be known you care about yourself, and how people see you as a person aswell. 

