Have you ever thought about how much cooler people seem that are holding a cup of coffee from Starbucks? Doesn't that make you want to buy a cup of coffee from Srabucks so that you can look cool as well? I have to admit, that Starbucks cup in my hand makes me feel a little more on trend as well instead of holding a cup that says Love's, Tim Hortons or Dunkin. Is the coffee any better in the Starbucks cup than it would be in any of those other cups? No, not really. Is the coffee in that Starbucks cup worth the price that you pay for it, and often it's 30-40% more expensive than the other brands. Do you feel like more of the in crowd when you buy that coffee and walk around with it? You certainly do but is it really worth it? What's going to make you happy 20 years from now?
 Advertising makes a strong impression on us. We see images of people that look exciting and improtant using these products and we want to buy those items as well. I feel like I'm looked at in a better light when I'm using a trendy, popular product. Is that impression worth the price that I'm paying? No, not really. A purse from Walmart is just as functional as the purse from Coach or Michael Kors but unfortunately people concerned with status won't consider my value as high if I'm carrying a purse that's not considered a luxury brand. Advertising has told everyone that you should buy these high end items and if it's not high end, you must not have good taste and are not as worthy as people that do use these luxury brands. This exclusivity doesn't just happen during our childhood, it continues throughout our lives. We are constantly judged by what we wear, what car we drive and what we eat and drink. Even our vacation choices are judged by others and that judgement is driven by advertisements telling us what lifestyle we should try to obtain in our lives. Why do our purchases define our value in the eyes of many people? It shouldn't.
 Ad agencies stay in business by telling us what we should value and who is cool and should be held up as a model for us to emulate. The money companies spend on advertising is well spent because it makes people want to buy these brands that they believe will lead them to a life style they believe will lead to respect. Advertising is valuable to companies because of that. As we're heading into a global recession, we really need to rethink these attitudes. The cost of goods is going up so much, you'll have to take a second mortgage on your home to buy these products and keep up the appearances of a glamorous lifestyle. It's not going to be worth it but advertising will tell you it is. Ad agencies want you to keep buying these products so that they can keep their clients happy and keep their business running. They won't care how many bankruptcies are created and how they contribute to unecessary consumerism.
 We need to keep buying products to keep people employed and the economy running, but do we need to buy expensive products just for appearance or are lesser products just as good and just as functional and will keep more money in your bank account for emergencies? Advertising would tell you yes you need to buy the lifestyle popular products, but reality will tell you no. It's time to pull back the curtains on the truth behind advertising and start looking at quality products that improve your life and not hurt your financial future. Create your own style and be an individual that sets your own trends! We need to think for ourselves and not buy a lifestyle that advertisers want us to buy. That cup of coffee from Love's is just as good as the Starbucks coffee and costs half the price. Drink it with confidence because the money you're saving will lead to more financial stability for you and your family. That sort of confidence is worth more than how you look with an upscale product in your hand.   
