     Humans are impressionable creatures. We determine so much about the world we live in based on the information we recieve from our senses, and in particular, we rely greatly on visual information to formulate ideas about our surroundings. We are always desiring to satisfy our senses, including our sense of sight through beauty and aesthetics. We are social creatures with an innate need to feel a sense of belonging in our communites and to feel a sense of peace and happiness. The problem with this is when these tendencies are taken advantage of by unscrupulous entities for the own gain. Images and impressions have too much of an impact on us for them to be used the way they currently are in media and advertising. 
     We are so often taken advantage of and manipulated in ways we don't even notice. Advertisements often present an image of people being happy and the world being a peaceful place in order to lead us to associate this feeling with their product. One example of this is pharmaceutical commercials who often show a television ad showing a group of friends riding bikes in a park or a parent playing with their children. Then briefly at the end, they mention the name of their product and what condition it's for. This leads those with that medical condition to imagine themselves being happy like the people in the commericial if they just take that drug. Another example is Coca-Cola's holiday advertising. Every year they show many Christmas themed ads, showing Santa Claus or polar bears in a Christmas wonderland and a Coca-Cola just happens to be there. A lifetime of seeing these ads has led me to associate Coca-Cola with Christmas and I find myself wanting a Coke around the holidays even though I otherwise don't buy them. 
     This sort of manipulation through imagery also occurs with product packaging. A product with a pretty package is more appealing to shoppers and gives it an edge over its competitors. A package that looks cool, has an iconic logo, or associates itself with a particular lifestyle or demographic can induce customers to pick it up when they otherwise wouldn't. It is for this reason that New Zealand outlawed the use of aesthetic imagery on tobacco products. Tobacco products sold there must have plain packaging with simple lettering and only the necessary information. This is to ensure customers are purchasing the product only because they are genuinly interested in it and not because they have been manipulated through visual stimuli.
     Images and impressions have too much of an impact on us. We are too often taken advantage of due to this propensity. Perhaps advertisements should be required to be more plain and perhaps we should all bring our awareness to how we respond to different commericals and packaging styles so that we can be sure we are choosing products based on our actual needs and not as an attempt to live up to a percieved ideal.  
 
