 Modern society has way too much of a focus on materialism. Yes, the Capitalist system was built on consumerism, but that does not mean it is the best way to live. Perhaps the time has now come to move beyond the materialistic views of old, and into a new way of living. 

 The fact is, many of the worlds problems can be traced to materialism. Poverty, crime, addiction, and mental health issues are all related to the focus on obtaining wealth and luxuries. Let's face it, we can not all be rich. We can not all have big mansions, fancy cars, and other such goods. There is a limited amount of wealth available and materialism actually celebrates those who generate and horde things for themselves, rather than helping society with it. Often times, those that do make it to the so called "top" are the worst of us, not the best. Greed, manipulation, and taking advantage of others are usually the quickest way to wealth, although on their own, most of society would not classify these traits as good ones to have. 

 Until we move away from matierialsim, we will never have equality. Until we focus on personal growth, rather than the growth of our net wealth, we will not move beyond the greed. Homelessness, poverty, suicide, and many more real world problems could easily be addressed, and in some cases eliminated, if we spent our limited resources on bringing up our "losers" rather than giving the "winners" an extra private aircraft. While many of us work multiple j0bs, just trying to pay for necessities, the few wealthy people are flying around the world on private aircraft and taking weekend vacations to the tropics. While we have thousands of homeless people barely hanging on to life, others are eating thousand dollar dinner plates at fancy 5 star restaurants. Instead of condeming and demanding that this behavior stop, matierialism actually celebrates these people who live such lavish lifestyles while others suffer and fight to just survive. 

 As a final example of the obsurdity of the matierialistic view we have to look no further than Jeff Bezos. While millions of people struggle to find enough food to eat, to pay their rent, or to just get by, this man spent hundreds of millions to shoot his load into space. He was even celebrated, by some, for doing so. Nobody needs a private jet, yacht, or space craft. People do, however, need food and shelter. 

 While I wholeheartedly agree that innovation and hard work should be rewarded, I would also argue that the contribution to society needs to match that reward. The system we currently have in place where we nearly worship the celebrity, and measure a man by how much stuff he can accrue is outdated, unneeded, and counterproductive to the advancement of soceity. 
