   What is happiness?  And if we are happy, are we always happy?  Or is there more to it than that?  There are those among us who believe that happiness can only come from following our dreams and focusing on our own goals and success, and the other side of that are those that feel happiness only comes when we are intentional about making others happy and investing into their lives.  So which is it, which one of these endeavors really makes us happy?
   I'd venture to say that being happy is a very fleeting feeling.  We are happy when we are at a party, we are not necessarily happy when we are at home reading a book, or cooking dinner.  It's not a long term, soul igniting, warmth sustaining truth.  Now joy, joy is.  Deep down joy overcomes little annoyances, bad days, even stock market crashes.  Joy is long term, joy is an attitude, joy is part of us, joy is, for lack of a better word, eternal.  Joy doesn't come from being happy though.  Can we be happy by following our dreams and building the biggest, most profitable business ever?  Yes.  Can we be happy because that business has given us more money than we could ever spend?  Yes. But what happens when it all goes away?  What happens when the bottom falls out and the business goes bankrupt?  Are you still happy?  No.  It's a fleeting feeling.  Chasing these dreams of ours in this way doesn't provide joy, only momentary happiness, only fleeting smiles.
   So what if we change the narrative.  What if instead of focusing on ourselves, we focused on others.  What if our lives were spent helping other people, do you even comprehend the utter joy that can bring?  Have you ever once watched a single mom, abused by her husband, leave him with her child and nothing else?  Watched her, with help from those around her, rally, go back to school, get a job, get an apartment, and raise her child on her own, proud of herself for protecting her child and herself from the abuser, knowing that you had a small part in helping her do that?  Now that's the kind of happiness, the kind of joy that doesn't fade.  It doesn't go away when the sun goes down, it doesn't leave when the stock market crashes, or when you lose your job, or when your car is stolen.  No, that joy right there, that joy is eternal, it lives on in you, in that mama, in that child, in that child's child, and so on and so on.  Because you helped, someone's grandchild will have a better life.  You changed the world far beyond your own lifespan here.  Seems to me that joy is the kind of joy I'd like to be in pursuit of. 
