While true that modern society is definitely materialistic, I don't think its worthy of society as whole being criticized, it should be different for each case.
Materialism in itself isn't a bad thing, as the prompt suggests, it is indeed a vital source of meaning and happiness in our life, many of the things we buy have no purpose other than to bring us happiness.

For instance, buying a brand name shirt because of that name is materialistic in many eyes, this isn't inherantly bad though. If having the brand name brings you happiness, then so be it. The situation should only draw criticism when the person starts to act as if owning this said shirt puts them above other people. People may say that any type of materialism should bring criticism, and I heavily disagree. What a person does with their own money is none of anyones business, and if spending it on things just to have them brings them happiness, nobody has any right to talk about their spending.

Sure, saving money should be a main priority in a lot of peoples lives, but people with disposable income, or people that just have some extra money on the side that they feel like spending should be allowed to spend this money how they choose. See a gaming console for instance, is it materialistic to spend  $500 on a new PS5?  Yes, it is, but many people will look past this because it is a normal thing and brings many happiness and joy through use, to which I say, whats the difference then? A person spending $500 on a shirt that brings them joy every time they look at it or wear it is no different than spending it on a new gaming console that brings them joy every time they turn it on and load up a game. However, again, if owning this PS5 boosted this fictional persons ego to the point that they were treating others worse because they simply can't spend as much money, or afford it, then said fictional person should definitely be criticized for their materialistic ways.

The main point that is trying to be made is that, I think materialism should be criticized on a person to person basis, if someone is just buying things solely because it makes them happy, but it doesn't change them as a person at all, there should be no criticism to be had for them. Whereas, if someone is buying things to flash them off with the sole purpose of making people feel lesser because they don't have as much, this should 100% be heavily criticized.

For the average person, being able to buy things that they want is often a rare occasion, as they need to deal with bills, groceries, and plenty of other expenses that may not allow them to do this often. So on the occasion that they are able to buy something, who are we to say they can't just for the sake of not being materialistic? Imagine you just saved up $300 for a pair of shoes you've wanted for months, you buy them, and they arrive. You go to show your friends because you're proud of your purchase, and they shun you away and call you materialistic because of the purchase, is this fair? No, you had no ill intentions, and these shoes bring you joy, there is nothing wrong with that, and definitely nothing worthy of criticism behind this.

So in conclusion, No. Modern society should not be criticized for our materialistic ways, everything should be criticized on a case to case basis, look at every case individually, look at the intentions behind each persons purchases and only then, can you judge on if they should be criticized for being materialistic or not.
