In today's world, we are wrapped up in the facade of people, places and things.  Many times we do not look beyond what we see to know the truth.  This happens with the standards of beauty in our society.  I feel like we've stepped away from appreciating natural beauty and are setting unreal expectations for ourselves and others around us.

In the not so distant past, beauty was real.  Beauty was flaws and all.  An imperfection could add to a person's beauty.  Now all we see are filtered pictures and the overused word of flawless.  It seems to be an unreal expectation that is causing an epidemic.  We have more mental health issues within our society than ever before.  We are trying to obtain something that is unobtainable.  Others are setting expectations that will always lead to disappointment.

Why can't we find our way back to appreciating things, flaws and all?  How can we make a move from airbrushing, plastic surgery and spending ridiculous amounts of money and time trying to achieve the unachievable?  I believe we need to start embracing people, and life, flaws and all.

Mother nature doesn't create perfectly symmetrical, smooth and always perfect leaves on trees, but that doesn't take away from the beauty.  Let's make a move from form to substance.  It's not what something looks like that determines it's value.  In fact, it's our very imperfections that make us perfectly unique to this world.

Scars tell stories.  Many times these are stories of triumph and overcoming.  It not something to be altered in photos.  It's a piece of our journey and who we are.  Each of us travels a different path in life and it's ours alone.  Others may walk by our side, but our path is our path.

Many times we seek careers because they look good to society, but deep down we know that's not our calling.  I've seen this many times.  Everything looks fabulous on the outside and we are held in high esteem, but inside we are unfulfilled, unhappy and yearning for something else.  It's the image that our parents or perhaps society has pushed upon us which may cause us to yield to our own dreams, our own definiton of what a good life is.

Embrace life.  Know that this is it.  You've got one shot to live your own life.  Don't allow society, family, or friends determine what is good for you.  Looking good to them, for the sake of looking good, isn't living.  That's living for someone else.  Take your path and own it.  Make it messy.  Make mistakes.  Make it fun.  Make it yours.  When it's all said and done, you will have lived a life worth living that you will look back upon with no regrets.

I would love for us all to choose to be beautifully real, flawed, and imperfect in a world that is chasing the unobtainable.  Images and impressions are skewed.  Anyone can make a good impression and look good, but who are they beneath the shell of what is presented?  Dig deep in life and know that not everything is what it seems.



