Cooperation is the way people acheive the most success. People need other people to succeed. One generally will work with people in their career in one way or another and cooperation makes other people happy. Romantically, cooperation can lead to deeper, closer connections. Socially, one can get ahead through cooperation since they come across as a team player. Ultimately, cooperation helps one get ahead in life more than competition in all of their areas of life.

People are going to work with others no matter what their job is. An enty level cahsier has coworkers to work with and management to work under. A lawyer has their clients and judges that they work for. A cashier can get promoted by impressing management by being a good cooperative team player. A lawyer can make better money by working with their clients and not making the judge angry. Competition in either of these examples could result in team members being unhappy or perhaps even being fired because the compeitive attitude could be mistaken as a bad attitude. Even if the cashier gets promoted by being competitive, they might have left a bad taste in their team members mouth, leaving their subordinates unhappy and much less willing to respect their leadership. Being coroportative would maximize the probability of team members respecting the person that gets promoted and thus resulting in a much happier and more productive team. Simply put, cooperation ultimately helps people acheive success professionally. 

In a relationship, cooperation helps make one's partner and the relationship itself happy. Cooperation means both people are in the relationship together working towards a common goal. Cooperation means less conflcit because it can lead to compromise. Cooperation can also lead to a better and deeper connection due to feeling like all people are getting something out of the relationship. Competion, however, can lead to conflict. It might feel like one is trying to one up the other. In fact, competion might lead to feeling farther apart and even a break up. In a romantic relationship, cooperation leads to more successful deeper romantic relationships. 

Cooperation is also important in being successful in social groups. Cooperating can assist someone in coming across as nice and friendly leading to more friends. More friends and being well liked in the community can lead to more benefits such as connections to jobs or other resources one might want in life. Cooperation makes one come acrosss as likable. Competition, however, can make one seem mean, aggressive, off-putting, and even pushy. Being competitive can give someone the opposite of what they want. Cooperation ultimately works better for one in social groups

Cooperation does more for one than competition. It is believed that cooperation makes someone come across in all areas of their life whether that be professionally, romantically, or socially. While competition has its benefits, it is not the best way for one to be successful and ultimately get what they want in their life. Cooperation means everyone is happy and everyone gets the success they desire.    
