Everybody has their own beliefs of how to achieve happiness in their life and how to go about achieving that happiness. Some believe they must focus on their own personal goals to achieve happiness, and others believe they should focus on the happiness of others. I strongly believe that focusing on the happiness of others and improvement of humanity can help you find your own happiness. My beliefs have been formed through my relationships and my career. 

Growing up, I never thought that I would ever care for someone's else's happiness and pursuit of goals over mine. Now that I am in a happily married relationship of 10 years, I see that I was  wrong. I would do anything to make my husband happy and make sure he achieves the goals he wants in life. The process of helping him provides me with a sense of fulfillment, and he provides for me in the way that I do for him. We are a team that, together, are achieving happiness on a level that we could not achieve alone. 

I am a successful female civil engineer working in a male-dominated industry. I feel that I should act as a strong role model for other females entering the industry, and I also see the urgent need of more people entering the STEM industry. With those thoughts in mind, I started a touring workshop for local elementary and middle schools. With this workshop, I bring along other engineers in the industry, and we spend about an hour with various grade levels introducing them to the different types of engineering and providing them with a competitive activity to get their analytical gears turning. My co-workers know that I am not really fond of being around kids, so they are confused as to why I do these workshops; however, I have found so much pride and joy in providing these workshops to the local schools. I feel a great sense of accomplishment when I leave hearing just one or maybe two kids saying to me that they want to be an engineer when they grow up. 

Now some people may argue that you cannot find your own happiness by focusing on the happiness of others, which can sometimes be true depending on how you go about it; but do you really know what you need to achieve happiness? I do not think most people know that. The thought of starting the engineering workshops terrified me. I did not want to do it mostly because of my own selfishness to want to stay in my own zone at work or at home. I found that I am great at working with kids and teaching them basic concepts of civil engineering, and it makes me want to continue that type of work. 

In conclusion, in working to help others achieve their goals and happiness, as well as providing improvements to humanity, you can in turn find your own happiness. It may not be obvious at first where to start, but you will eventually find the right path. 
