The professionals in technology and advertising have studied human behavior and understand what influences people and how to use subdlety, both in words and images, to pursuade consumers to think a certain way, buy a certain product, or change a certain opinion. The effects of this technology, advertising,  and media have a varied result on people depending on the level of regular interaction and the time period in which they were born. 

Some might say that the influence is generational, that it depends on when a person was born. Those born in the "greatest generation" might perhaps be less influenced from technology and advertising. The thought is that technology is beyond them, that the just try to stay in contact with their grandkids. However, the media and advertising were around before the internet, and there are other ways to influence the opinions of people; tv, print, and movies all shaped the opinions and thoughts of the greatest generation. The images of the Tet offensive, and the words of Cronkite changed for many the idea and support for the Vietnam War. Futhermore, there are many savy consumers from this generation that are very fluent in technology; many of the ads on tv are geared towards this older generation and the products, services, and thoughts that influence everything from purchasing to political views.

Others would have the opinion that generation z or millenials are overly influenced by the images and websites that they frequent on a daily basis. These younger generations focus on sites that a overly visual; sites like tiktok, youtube, and instagram are heavily focused on images or video content. More and more people of these generations are not discerning of the content they consume; they assume that things are true if it is on the internet. They have not been instructed on how to evaluate content and exhibit a certain innocence about the content providers and the images, ads, or news that is shown to them on a daily basis. I would propose that it is more nuanced than all the youth are mere lemmings for any content. Many youthful consumers are quite savy and wary of the earlier generations; they are discerning and skeptical of the content they consume. It is mor of an entertainment nature than clear acceptance.

There are many examples of professionals from the field of advertising and technology that talk about the dangers and influence. One particular documentary, The Social Dilemna, speaks about the undue influence that social media has on people. It focuses on youth, but the examples and information could fit almost any generation. The professionals speak about how they do not allow their kids to use these products or that it is closely supervised. As a parent myself, I try to control the content and the messages that my children interact with in various media formats. We have discussions about critcal thinking and being savy consumers of online content. They have been schooled in evaluating online content, studying evidence, and reaching their own conclusions on topics related to politics, religion, and a variety of other topics. The influence of images is pervassive, but this influence can be limited and controlled by being a smart consumer.


