When it comes to the pursuit of happiness, there are many routes an individual can take. Whether you define your own happiness by personal goals or by the shared experience and relationships you have to others, happiness is a long journey. Provided how variable people can feel about what brings them joy, it appears evident that one is most likely to be happy if they define what makes them happy, outline the personal goals needed to achieve that definition, and ultimately pursue happiness from their definition.

The way in which you define happiness makes a big difference in your journey. This definition is one of the most important decisions you can make, because it is ultimately how you carve out and begin a life of happiness as you move forward. For a person at the individual level, this is important to be be personal rather than by others. For example, you may define happiness as feeling warmly content more days than not on a week-by-week basis. If this is your definition, you know what you should attain to be happy. If you went by other's definitions of happiness, you might be chasing things that would never bring true happiness. For example, others may say happiness is owning an expensive car or making a lot of money. If you believed the things that appear to bring others happiness would also bring you happiness, you very well could never reach a state of genuine happiness. This is why it is of utmost importance to define happiness, and in doing so, be sure to define it by your own standards. This is the first important stage to ensuring you can be more likely to happy by your own standards.

Further, once you define happiness by your own definition, the next important stage is indeed outlining your personal goals to meet that personal definition. It is key that for a person to be happy, they make sure to do this personally as well. If your goal is to attain contentment, you could know be sure to generate steps to reach it. You could be sure to eat well, exercise, or pratice stoicism for example. These are your own personal goals. If you had tried to pursue happiness from others goals, you could be using methods that will not take you to the happiness level you hope for. If you searched for a high paying job to achieve the same steps others are trying for to reach happiness, you would not be getting any closer to your personal goal of reaching happiness. That is why it is of importance to pursue happiness by your standards. Following your personal definition of happiness, choose the steps to outline how you may reach your goal by your own path.

Finally, overall you'll be more likely to be happy if you focus on your goals personally. It is key that after defining and outlining how you may reach happiness, that you do not compare. The greatest thief of joy is comparison. There is no point comparing how you are doing to others, and if you make the happiness of others your personal journey, you will constantly be comparing and focusing on something completely outside of your are of control. For every step of the personal happiness journey, it is truly of key importance that you make it a personal one. You must not compare or make others the central focus. This does not mean you should be selfish or self-focused. In fact, one would hope and expect your own personal definition of happiness includes bringing joy and compassion to those you care about around you. The key distinction here is that you do not have that become your pursuit itself as you could never control how others truly feel about their own happiness.

With this, happiness has been discussed. The definitions of what it means to be happy are detailed, and the importance of outlining your goals in line with this personal goal and journey for happiness are mentioned. The key factor in making sure this is all a personal journey is also described. It is of utmost importance that overall the journey for happiness is a personal one, as this is how you are able to most likely actually achieve your happiness. Don't focus on others definitions or goals, focus on your own and achieve that from your best intentions.
