It's difficult to find yourself in a field that doesn't involve aspects of cooperation or competition in the workplace. Overall, while we are social creatures, we have a tendency to be competitive in the pursuit of pride and rewards. I argue that, when we reject that tendency and choose cooperation, this leads to more success in life. We should be certain to define success by measurable objective outcomes, and not whether someone "feels" more successful. In medicine we can frame it as: "What helps more patients- competition or cooperation?"

The medical field and journey to becoming a doctor exemplifies this concept clearly. When success is defined as better outcomes for the patient,  you need an entire team of medical professions to provide excellent care. Not just doctors but nurses, lab technicians, physical therapists, and pharmacists all working together. You will not get far by going your own way or trying to flaunt your medical knowledge to others. This is true as a medical student as well; by trying to step over people and shout out answers or minimize your coworkers, you are seen as a rogue and inflexible. People won't trust you or want to work with you, and the care of the patient will inevitable suffer because your colleagues will see and catch key findings you may miss. 

In medicine at large, competition certainly plays a role and has its benefits. The world of research often has many labs across the word looking at similar topics and racing to get their research published first. This pushes the discovery of new life saving medications much faster than it would otherwise without competition. Competition leading to success can be healthy when the target is a noble goal, like new medications for terminal patients. There is also the sense of wanting to be a better doctor for your patients and thinking that you are not doing as well as you should be, which is a form of competition with yourself so that you can improve. When competition is framed in a selfless way to help others, it can lead to success and better outcomes for patients. 

Yet, even with healthy competition, the goal of cooperation should supercede the desire to be competitive. If every lab was in it for themselves, we would be hoarding all the new discoveries for our own city, our own medical school, or our own countries, and the world would not be better off for the most part. Certainly the discoveries can be a success for one patient, but the extent of that success was heavily handicapped by the want for notoriety, and for bragging rights, or otherwise selfish gain. Competition is how we get ideas in our head like "I can treat this patient all by myself." Sometimes we tell ourselves that it's all in the pursuit of something more noble, but if we don't frame our goals with cooperation as our central ethic, we will fall short of success. 

Both cooperation and competition has its place in our world, but we cannot judge both factors to be equally important. We have competition to help motivate us, but its ideal place is to remind us of our overall selfless goals to help our fellow man, and this is ultimately rooted in cooperation. By relying on the brain power, skill sets, and unique experiences of people you work with, you will have access to more helpful knowledge that can serve much more people more quickly than if you tried to prove you could do the work of many by yourself.
