Although success can be achieved by both cooperation and competition, the successes achieved through cooperation tend to be the most satisfying and have the longest-lasting effects. If an individual accomplishes something entirely on their own in the workplace, the success is mostly just celebrated by that person alone. If a group achievement fosters a sense of pride in everyone involved, each person in the group will likely be inclined to make more effort in the future to work as a team and make significant advances for the company or organization as a whole. The sense of pride will ripple out and effect everyone in the organization positively.

Challenges are easier to overcome when there is a support system intact. The stress of tackling something individually can easily take a toll on a person and slow down their progress. In addition to helping bear the burden of the task at hand, working cooperatively allows each person in the group to bring their specific set of resources, talents, and ideas to the table. Some people are better at organizing, while other may excel at networking, data collection, or creative endeavors. While each of these skills on their own is helpful, the combination of them through collaboration makes the sucess of a project much easier to achieve. Brainstorming is far easier when multiple brains are involved!

Some may say that competition is a more effective way to achieve success, since power and titles and "being number one" are things many people find admirable in modern society. While this may seem to be true at first, rugged individualism is not sustainable long-term. The excitment of achieving something is fleeting and once the applause dies down, the individual is left wondering what to pursue next to get their next ego boost and brief burst of success-induced dopamine. The satisfaction of working collectively is on-going and people working in a group will not only have less stress to begin with, but will also not rely so heavily on a feeling of relief at the end of a project. Even if a group's efforts are deemed a flop, the lack of success will be the result of the ineptitude of multiple people, and not the failure of one single individual. 

Ultimately, there are rarely any cons to cooperating to achieve success, and quite a few downsides to working solo and in a competitive manner. 
