Materialism is something that's almost impossible to escape in our current society. Every man and woman has a smartphone, through which they view the world, their jobs, their own homes. Children are given ipads that give access to all sorts of flashing images, and those images people see on their screens compel them to buy the products they see. This presents a problem, as the consumer becomes blue in the face with an endless assortment of choices that scream to be purchased, and our culture in America, as a whole, is dedicated to this type of materalistic deluge that overcomes us to the point where we become dulled and numb to stimulae, having had it shoved in our faces for so long that we become submissive to its influence and cave in, purchasing the best TV, the best sound system, the best car, the best clothes.

Sites like Amazon, Ebay, and Facebook, Instagram and Tik Tok, are all pioneers in this obssesion with goods, whether it be the fashions seen on social media, the last Air Jordan Nike Shoes, or the Gucci handbag which runs thousands of dollars per purse, are shipped out daily by Amazon and Ebay in the tens of thousandds, and other online retailers that allow consumers to purchase whatever they desire have it shipped to their homes in petite brown boxes with little smiles on the cover, to suit their every whim. That is if they arent lifted by the new ciminal past time: porch piracy. The American culture has become a place where to fit in, one must own the latest, and not the just the latest, but endless amounts of it.

Some people may argue that this is simply capitalism doing it's job, that the only other solution is communism, and then we are pointed to countries like North Korea, Russia, and China to show that even they, communist countries they are, have failed and are desperate to grab hold of the American dream of driving a Japanese made car while sipping a French latte, wearing the latest boots made in italy, all payed for by tapping onto a device made in China and shipped here via Amazon. There is however a limit, a very human limit, that goes beyond politics, there is the human mind: one that is shaped and warped and turned into a vastly different state by dopamine rush thrills of purchasing, the feeling of being an outsider, a pariah if you dont subscribe to the latest streaming service. Society needs to find a balance between these extreme dichotomies of with and without; and America is the first to realize that, through unchecked materialism and conssumption, we eventually destroy ourselves. Materialism is good to a certain extent, but too much of anything, even a good thing, is dangerous. We as a society should indeed be criticized for our rampant materialistic ways.
