Growing up in America, we are indoctrinated from a young age to believe that competition is what allows our capitalist society to function. As soon as we are young adults, whether it's applying to universities or seeking employment, we quickly realize how cruel competition can be. Once we're actually in the work force, this mentality is all-encompassing and is constantly hanging over your head, whether you're hoping for the promotion that will advance your career or you're simply worried about retaining the job you have. The question that many people ask themselves at some point, a question that is almost taboo to ask aloud, is this the best way to organize society?  The answer to that question is clearly: "No". Humans have a long history of cooperative tendencies and two crucial examples are scientific progress and efficient workplaces. 

Science as a discipline is all about progress, gradually getting closer to understanding how the world around us works. If you open up any scientific journal, you will immediately notice that every article is peppered with citations to other articles written by scientists who work at other institutions. All scientific research builds off of past knowledge; if we started from scratch for every research project, we'd never get anywhere. This is why science is intrinsically dependent upon human cooperation, and without cooperation we'd not have many of the life-saving drugs we have today.

Another area that benefits from cooperation is the workplace. If everyone has a shared deadline to get a project done, it is essential for everyone to cooperate and do their slice of the project in order to deliver results to the client on time. Even in an industry like fast food, when a restaurant is busy the kitchen and cash registers become high-pressure environments. Unless everyone is communicating to each other, customers can become angry when their food takes too long.

Proponents of a competition-driven model of society will claim that competition is important because it drives innovation and keeps prices down. It is true that competition has flooded the market with a wide variety of products, however many of these items are not designed out of necessity but sheerly to provide novelty. We can thank competition for having a choice of 50 flavors of toothpaste at the grocery store. In reality, this model creates problems that don't exist and "solves" them with products nobody needs. In terms of its ability to keep prices down, this has proven to be false to such a degree that laws had to be passed in order to prevent companies for colluding with each other and setting high prices.

In summary, while we are conditioned to believe that competition is the key to success, cooperation is a more valuable property of human beings. We can thank cooperation for all of the scientific advancements we've enjoyed in recent decades. Additionally, while competition is encouraged in the workplace, nothing would actually get done with cooperation. It is also not true that competition ensures the development of important innovations or necessarily keeps prices low for consumers. It is in everybody's best interest to view the world through a cooperative lens instead of a competitive one. Cooperation is the key to personal and societal success.
