America's 20th century was founded on the image. Everywhere you look you see advertisements for objects, clothes, cars. People have always and will always be captured by images, particularly images that could relay status or fulfullment. This, of course, is irrational. It is self-evident that there are more important things that don't take a material form, the feelings  and thoughts those close to us, the health of your local community, and most importantly our own inner satisfaction. It can be difficult to wrestle your way from the grasp of constantly feeling the need to climb the material ladder, to get a bigger house, a sleek sports car, but life and who one is, is not defined by these things.

It can be unfair to critisize the individual for their participation in a societal issue, they see this atainment of material and think that life is a linear progression of aquiring goods, because we as people like linear narritives. We see others projecting happiness through their possessions, and it can be easy to mistake that for the next step after college education and a secure career. However, materialism is founded on diminishing returns. The next purchase only sates one for a short time. Once your individual situation is secure purchasing increasingly extravagant material goods will not provide exponental satisfaction. It is much more important to ensure that those around you are taken care of. Your family members are not struggling To donate your exess funds and make sure those in your community have a place to gather, a library or park. Or that those in need can eat dinner that night. These things have material value, you can see them, use them yourself, but they also serve the communty. It is antithetical to our modern society to want to beter utilize our excess funds, but individuals need to break away from that mindset.

In conclusion, modern society should absolutely be critisized for its individualistic materialism, acts of selflessness are much more fulfilling.


