What brings you joy? Joy looks different for everyone. Some people enjoy spending time with family or friends, or experiencing new and exciting moments. Others enjoy shopping, spending money and gathering a wealth of items. For many, owning a multitude of different items in and around their homes can make people feel well, more at home. Modern society is often criticized for being too materialistic, but this shouldn't be the case.  People shouldn't be looked down on for doing what makes them happy and for filling their homes with things that make them feel warm and truly at home. Modern society shouldn't be criticized for being materialistic.

For some people, having a goal in life is a must. Imagine working day after day, but with no goal in life or no ambition. Nothing to spend your money on. Well then, why work every day and earn money with no goal or motivation to spend that money? You'd become depressed, bored and just find a lack of meaning in your life. If saving up for a luxury car or clothing will make someone happy, then they should do what will make them happy. After all, life is short and we should do what we want to do and try the things we want to try. Some people even get a thrill out of shopping just to spend money. Again, if that's something that people enjoy, then so be it. This modern society has become too obsessed with downsizing, but at what cost? Does it make one happier? The answer is simply, it does not. However, shopping, buying luxury items, and simply buying a vast variety of items can bring great joy to many people and this modern society should stop criticizing people for doing what they want or need to make themselves happier. But materialism comes at a cost, many say.

Yes, materialism does, quite literally, come at a cost. A cost to our wallets and our environment. Production creates pollution and harms our environment. However, the fact is, business iteself harms our environment. But business is necessary for people to make a living and for the modern world to keep going because when people spend money, businesses prosper; and when businesses prosper, workers benefit. The main criticism against materialism is the cost to our environment - more businesses create more pollution and more items created will fill our landfills more quickly. While this is true, the solution isn't to buy less and move away from materialism. The solution is to create greener products and greener operation standards for businesses. This is the true root of our problem. Modern society should deal with the root of the problem, rather than try to criticize others for being too materialistic. After all, we live in this modern age with so many fantastic things - why stop yourself, or anyone else, from buying those things, or trying new things and experiencing happiness?

The fact is, modern society shouldn't be criticized for being materialistic. Shopping, engaging in buying behavior and saving up for luxury items - all of these things make us happier and make our lives more exciting. Our lives are too short to deny us our happiness. While pollution is a firm and valid criticism of materialism, the true solution is to find greener ways to make products and dispose of them, and make businesses operate in more energy efficient ways. Being materialistic shouldn't be looked down upon in this modern society - go out and buy what you want; surround yourself with happiness. Enjoy life!
