     In the United States, image is everything. This has become a major problem in our society. Today, almost everyone uses some sort of social media. Influencers have replaced role-models and mentors. In today's society, people are more concerned with how they appear instead of figuring who they actually are. The media shoves images in our faces of what we are "supposed to look like" in order to shape and alter the way we percieve ourselves. People tend to only post the positive parts of their lives, making others feel isolated in their problems. It is a practice that makes people feel alone and outcasted. The presence and growing number of social media influencers is becoming a major problem for youth in today's society. Fake positivity is rampant on social media and is seen amongst most influencers. 
    The image of being happy all the time and "living your best life" constantly is unrealistic and fails to address real-life issues. I fear that today's youth are being force fed images and false impressions that will turn them into mindless consumers. The point of all of this force fed imagery is to fuel the consumerism our country thrives on. Of course, a positive image can be helpful for some going through a negative experience. The problem begins when all that is offered is false and fake imagery, constructed to make us believe that we are not good enough "as is" and that we should strive to be more like a false construct. It is much more helpful to empathize and validate. The real world is masked in a false reality due to images and impressions that promote an unobtainable life. 
    All too often, entertainers and politicians jump on the fake imagery bandwagon. People promote themselves as if they are for sale, only highlighting the positive attributes. This becomes a problem when people actually buy into the image and are ultimately dissapointed when they realize the person put up a fake exterior. Nobody wants to talk about or address their negative aspects, they'd rather just let it come out naturally, after lying to everyone who initially believed in the impression they put out. 
    In conclusion, people need to realize that these images forced upon us daily in order to to make us buy into something. We need to think for ourselves, and stop comparing ourselves to images we see in the media and online. If we continue to seek validation from this false imagery, we will ultimately lose ourselves in the process. I want today's youth to know that it's all fake, and none of us are perfect. Nobody is happy all the time, nobody has a "perfect" life, and that everyone is beautiful in their own way, despite what their altered perceptions may tell them. If you truly want to know about a person or a product, do your own research.
