Happiness is a pursuit sought by many. So many questions can be asked about happiness. Where does happiness come from? What does happiness mean? Why does happiness mean so much to people? When do we know that we are happy? I'm here to tell you where that happiness can come from.
 Happiness comes from helping others pursue their goals. It comes from the journey you take, and the pieces of joy you steal along the way. When you focus on the happiness of others and the improvement of humanity, the happiness you recieve in turn will become immense. I work for a non-profit orginization that helps young and single mothers to raise their children. We help them find housing, transportation, access to food/formula/diapers, and much much more. The joy I find in helping these women and children brings so much happiness to my life. Watching a mother move into her first apartment on her own, and knowing I helped give her the skills and confidence to take on this challenge brings me happiness. When we help a single mother get a new to her car, to help get the kids to daycare and her to work, that brings happiness. There can also be happiness gained from small acts as well. Just a smile when some one looks sad. A wave and hello when you cross somebody in the street or store.
 Now some may say that pursuing ones own dreams is the true pursuit to happiness, and I can understand why some people may think of feel that way. I would tell these people that what they are experiencing is a superficial happiness and challenge them to volunteer for a day and see what hapiness they can glean from that experience. Or to simply say hi to a stranger, and see how that feels. 
 In conclusion I would like to say, volunteer more, give that stranger a smile. Small random acts of kindness could bring you hapiness like you've never felt before. Start small, and buil up to improving humanity. You never know what one small act can set off as a chain reaction. Happiness is infectious. It is meant to be shared among us.


















