The world around us is quickly becoming more about perception than reality and with that shift, we see a rise in personal effects on people. With the rise in social media use, there is a feeling of perfection that is displayed on the pages people cultivate around their lives. This is done through only posting highlights in pictures or words, photoshopping pictures to fulfill a standard of perfection, and needing to document moments to share for likes online.

There is a sense of FOMO (Fear of missing out) that has arisen over the past few years due to a rise in cultivating a specific image online. Usually people don't post about the hard moments in their lives, the doubts they feel, or the moments of despression or anxiety. What is instead posted is an array of images that show someone out with friends, accomplishments of their children or themselves, vacation photos, etc. These moments are great to share, and it's normal for us to share positive moments, but it does create an image of a well put together life that is void of conflict and can cause negative comparisons. 

Photoshopping apps have risen as well, with influencers retouching their photos easily in order to sell products or a lifestyle. We see this rise in correlation to the rise of celebraties like the Kardashian's and there is an ever growing sense of influencers attaining wealth by following thei example. They work online to craft an image and make money by relying on image clicks, affiliate links, and a certain aesthetics and images are a huge part of this, which means photoshopping them to be more appealing is an important part of their work. As a follower of people online, it is growing increasingly difficult to determine what is real, and what is unattainable.  Due to this, it can heavily impact the body image of those that view this content either for the bad (body dysmorphia, FOMO, loss of money in products, etc) or good (Deciding to get healthy, desiring to get out and do new things, etc). Comparison is normal, but because people are comparing themselves to something that isn't real, it can cause depression, anger, and a whole array of other negative emotions. It's important to recognize the power these images have, in order to fight against any negative effects they may have on people.

As the rise in influencers and social media has occured so too has the desire to be accepted by your "tribe". The idea of acceptance is a normal human emotion but with the interconnected nature of our world today, there is a need for inclusion that is also spreading. It's as though personal moments no longer are personal and should be shared online to anyone within the circle of friends and family that a person has online. This leads to a rise in awareness in how something will look and if it will get approval online rather than living in the moment and enjoying what activity is being done. 

Images and impressions has a severe effect on people. Not only does an image create positive or negative emotions in another, but the need to provide images also impacts a person. We view the world more and more in an online sense rather than based in reality and in the effort to build an online pressence, we can build a prison around ourselves. There is a shift within the messaging behind pictures recently and although it's a good thing, it still relies on the image that we create online, and how it impacts those that view it. Images have always effected people, and as more importance shifts to an online persona (inlcuding personas of influencers, politicians, etc), we will see these effects grow as well.
