Although likely unintentional, Madonna's hit song 'Material Girl' erupted in the 1980's and glamorized the idea of materialism in a fun and playful way. The use of catchy lyrics and an upbeat tempo, combined with the populatiry of Madonna herself, helped to launch this song to the top of the charts. Years later, this song has become frighteningly symbolic in representing our society's need and desire for materialism. And while materialism in and of itself is not necessarily a bad thing, I believe modern society has become too materialistic and it is overshadowing other (more fundamental) characteristics we should be exhibiting within our society. 

There is nothing inherently wrong with wanting to have nice things, and for some people, the aquisition of material possessions brings them a sense of joy and happiness. However, I think we (as a society) have become hyperfixated on having "the biggest", "the best", and "the most", and most of us are never truly satisfied with simply having these possessions at all. Growing up in one of the most affluent suburbs in the country, I was surrounded by people who felt the need to flaunt their designer purses, fancy cars, large houses, extravagent vacations, and more. Ironically, these were also the same people who looked down on those less fortunate than them, and who would rather write a large check to charity than actually *do* something charitable for the cause. I have been fortunate enough to work in settings with people who have next to nothing, and these were some of the kindest, most compassionate, and generous people I ever met. So while money may buy happiness, it doesn't buy morals, values, or a proper upbringing. 

On the flip side, I know there are people who will argue and say "it's my money, I can do what I want with it!" Yes, it is your money and you can do what you want with it. And by the same token, it's my opinion and I'm entitled to it. I don't have to agree with your decision to spend money on material items that may or may not bring you happiness, and you don't have to agree with me that your excessive materialism doesn't necessarily equate to happiness. 

At the end of the day, if you have the financial means and the desire to purchase something (for yourself or anyone else), I welcome you to do so. However, I also encourage you to look deep within yourself to see what you are really gaining from your possessions. Imagine the positive change we could make in the world if everyone in our society spent a little less time trying to one-up each other with our fancy cars, newest iPhones, and obscenely large houses, and instead focused on trying to make the world a better place. I have a feeling we would all be a LOT happier, if we tried to be just a little LESS materialistic.  
