There are three type of person live in the world there are 1. very selfish person like only focus on personal goal and happiness. 2. they are focus two things one is own goals and happiness another one other person happines. 3. The third type of person is give max important for all other people happiness only. this is a max no of people live in the world. Now we saw two extrame type of people stories. One is focus only own goal and happiness. another one is always think about other people happiness. 
Once upon a time john live in the metropole city. he is married couple of year back. He is working well known game developing company. he like become a CEO of the company so he everyday work hard. One day he have one important project deadline. That time he's wife first time pregnant. she had a pregnacy pain she call husband but he didn't take a call because of he is work pressure. She had no one help at the time so she call continusly for her husband but he didn't attend. atlast she call 911 and join a hospital, still he didn't come hospital because of he focus only he's work and goal. fortunately he's wife and new born child is safe. 
Now see about another person. Once upon a time jessica live in the village and she have a farm. everyday she working in the farm. Also she help to all person everday any time. still they are unknown person she is ready to help. she had a good name in the village. One day mid night sudden sound from the out of the house she wakeup and go and check. end of the road one car is accident. one family in the car father, mother and two childrens, they have minior injury for everyone. no one care about the accident but jessica go and help to the family. she come with she's house and give some food and medical helps also she repair the car to running stage. She said stay in the night she's house. they family will be happy and also jessica is very happy to help the family.
There are two type of person we saw. John didn't care about the family and Jessica any time to help unknown family. The moral of the story is first think we should care about family because of our goal and our earning everythink for the family. also atleast ready to small small help other people. our own goals and happines important but that is not only think. we live with all other people so give love to all people. 
