Competition and cooperation both have completely valid reasons for utilization but does that mean that both techniques achieve the same amounts of success? Absolutely not. On one hand, we have an environment where individuals go head to head with one another, each striving to be better and more distinguished than the last. On the other hand we have a situation that is more focused on helping each other get a foot up, assisting others in exchange for them helping us to reach our goals rather than doing whatever it takes to be the best. Again, these both have applicable, useful aspects in certain situations but when it comes down to the overall amount of success achieved, cooperation triumphs over competition. 
In a world where anythning and everything is achieved through competition one would be faced with the constant mistrust of others due to the fact that it is more of an "every man or woman for themselves" scenario. Some could argue that through competition we are forced to become the greatest version of ourselves in order to best others. Are you really the best version of yourself if it means stepping on the fingers of your fellow human beings in order to get there?  It is quite the opposite when cooporation is assumed, trust is sown throughout everyone involved. Yes, we still focus on our individual goals, but through cooporating with others we can achieve much greater heights of success for ourselves, and everyone elese. There is no reason for doubting our fellow humans, we don't have to feel uncertainty about someone else trying to sabatoge our success in order to achieve their own. Instead we can experience a sort of comfort or confidence knowing that when we help others they will also do the same for us, and there will be much higher rates of success overall. 
While competition may seem like the greatest motivator of all at first glance, we must open our eyes to a bigger picture. This bigger picture is seeing that, through cooporation, we can achieve much higher rates of more stable and long-lasting success. By definition, competition is striving to become the "winner" over others. This means that there will always be losers in a competition situation. Through cooporation everyone can be their own winner, and others can feel pride knowing that they helped each other achieve their individual successes.
