I feel as though both cooperation and competition is essential for achieving success. I feel as though competition drives incentive and motivation however, ultimately it is cooperation that is the most crucial for success. Of course it depends on what it is that peopke want success in. In team sports competition is crucial otherwise there would be nothing to succeed in. You need cooperation within your team however, to be able to win and succeed in competition. Even most individual sports people usually have a trainer or coach they need to cooperate with in order to succeed. Intense rivalry and competition breeds hard work and increased motivation, however, without cooperation it will be difficult to beat the competition in almost any field.
In business whether you are running a restaurant or a sales office there may be other businesses you have competition with. In order to succeed in business you typically need a team of people who cooperate well with one another to do well and perform better than the competition. If their is no competition in your companies field you still likely will need good cooperation with your team in order to succeed. Even if you are alone in whatever you are trying to accomplish cooperation is crucial as you need to cooperate with the rule and regulations of whatever it is you are trying to achieve.
In the end I think competition is important for success as people tend to work harder when there are other people or groups competing for the same outcome. However, it will be difficult to succeed in anything if you are unable to cooperate with your team and everyone involved. For instance, sports teams who do not work well with each other will find it hard to do well regardless of individual skill levels. I have played soccer most of my life and I have been on teams where everyone's skill level was very high however, we did not play well together and lost most games. I have also played on teams where our skill level was much worse then the competion and we still won every game because we played well with each other. Competition may be important for success but peoples abilities to work with one another and cooperate on their specific tasks is what I feel is the most important for achieving overall success in almost anything.
