Sometime early in life, almost every individual asks themselves the question "what is the key to happiness in life?" And while, at first, people often reach the conclusion that some combination of having lots of money, lots of love and adoration, and lots of power are the most important necessities for happiness, they eventually realize that these are all just tools.  A million dollars sitting in a suitcase doesn't bring more than momentary happiness in itself; it is the spending, or utilization of, the million dollars that brings happiness.  And so after a while, people often realize that there is another level to the question regarding the key to happiness in life:  how do I approach life?  How do I exploit these gifts:  selfishly, or unselfishly?  Will I seek happiness by focusing mostly on myself, or on others?  Each of the tools to happiness I mentioned - wealth, love, and power - can be exploited in such a way as to merely make oneself happy, or to try to make others happy.  But while at our first instinct, for many, may be to seek happiness by pleasing ourselves, I think experience shows that true happiness is only achieved by focusing on the happiness of others.

Money.  Almost everybody desires it - preferably in large quantities.  But those who manage to acquire large sums of money often find that it just becomes the "new normal".  The rich person who can afford to eat at a fancy restaurant for every meal doesn't feel any more enjoyment, after a while, than the middle-class person eating at Applebee's. Frankly, money becomes boring, once your basic needs are met.  But some people discover that there is a way that having money can stay fresh and appealing:  by using that money to improve the lives of others.  For instance, Bill Gates will get much more personal gratification by spending billions to help fight malaria in Africa than he will by acquiring more and more houses, yachts, art, and the like.

Love and adoration.  For most people, being surrounded by people who love them is the focus of their life.  It is their main source of fulfillment and happiness.  Getting others to love you can be a hollow pursuit if all one seeks is sexual gratification from a series of lovers, who are summarily dismissed once they become too familiar.  However, truly happy people tend to have longer-lasting relationships, and keep a wider group of family and friends close to them.  And it is no coincidence that people who have these strong networks of loving family and friends tend to be people who are unselfish.

Power.  Some are obsessed with it.  They will not be satisfied until they have power over others.  Then they want power over more people.  They want to be recognized as great and powerful.  But, as we often see with political "leaders", this type of power is never enough, and any satisfaction it brings doesn't last for long at all.  It is a need that can never be met.  The happy use of power is found in those who acquire expertise in a certain area that allows them to employ their power in improving the world in some way.

In conclusion, we find a great paradox when we try to work out how to be happiest in life:  the more we focus on our own happiness, the less happy we are likely to be.  Being rich and famous tends to be a hollow "victory" if one ends at that.  Only by bringing happiness to others can our search for happiness be truly satisfied.
