Today very frequently, images are perceived as reality.  When did this phenomenon start?  How is it affecting our youth and how is it affecting our decision making?  Are people how they portray themselves or is it just how they want to be seen?

The advent of social media has changed the way we view ourselves.  At first social media seemed to be a way to connect with family and friends.  Over time as new technology was developed, with new apps for modifying and sharing images, the original premise has morphed.  Now, it seems, we want to look better, be prettier, be more active or more daring than everyone else.  A change has taken place with the speed at which we want to "one up" others.  When I was growing up you would see celebrities on television or in magazines, it was an infrequent medium.  Sure, there was still interest, still comparisons to yourself and your life or activities, but it was more internalized or verbally shared among friends.  

Today impressionable young people may believe that everything they see is reality, even though they know better.  Studies have suggested that many teens are adversely affected psychologically by social media.  Body shaming is rampant.  Negative body image is a very real result of these comparisons.  The frequency of posts and volume of opportunities for a person to feel less because they are not as beautiful or as active, or as cool as the images they view at times for hours a day has created new mental health issues.  This is significant in our younger more impressionable not fully matured youth.  We now have a whole new mental health issue to deal with.

Others may believe this is a natural evolution in technology and we are really just doing what we always did just faster and easier.  That may in fact be true but the counter argument is the speed at which the young mind is inundated with these images, which are perceived as perfection, is not healthy. 

As with any new technology and subsequent results of its utilization, we are finding that we need more control or regulations surrounding what has been developed.  We are currently focused on removing hate, fake news, upping the age at which accounts can be created.  It is clear we do not have it figured out yet.  Youth should be encouraged to be authentic and coached to know what is real.


