In our day to day life, I personally feel we are so influenced by social media, perception of ad's and simple advertisements. In your life you will always pick out the package that pops color - the one that says "PICK ME" the one that may be absoulte garbage but because they sold you strictly on what something looked like - you bought it. We are all good for doing this, we always want the "next best thing" the thing that will make you cooler - make you skinnier - make you look more wealthy maybe. This does not go for just your pink vitamins that say that you are going to get the most energy in the room. This goes for perceptions on social media, If I show you that I went on vacation for a week with the love of my life and it was great... you now believe that I had the money to expense this trip - I have a great relationship and life is fantastic.

We have created such a false reality for ourselves, stemming from your simple grocery trip to what you put out there on your next social media post. You think that because Cardi B posted today that she had the best birthday and was wined and dined that she is living her "best" life... who knows what kind of day she truley had... is she depressed? Is she in crippling debt? God forgive me but.. is she getting beat? We really have no idea what any person goes through on a day to day basis, we need to stop and think that no one is putting the bad out there. No one has the perfect life - they allow you to see what they want you to see.

We need to learn that not everything we see is what we get, we need to read between the lines. We shouldnt just purchase the colorful package because Cindy on TV said that you will never have another wrinkle again. You shouldn't feel bad about your life because you did not get to go to Cabo this past week, you dont know what that person did too afford that. You should not feel bad that your friend group is engaged - you have no idea what goes on behind closed doors. We need to step back and look at the bigger picture. Not everything that shines is gold.. you can always paint shit.(Pardon my french - hope this doesnt go out of guidelines)

Ultimately I think we need to learn more on making ourselves happy instead of watching on the sidelines for other people. I think image and what we think is right and wrong is influenced an unhealthy amount.
