Appearances mean so much to people these days.  Well maybe not just these days, but with all of the photo editing software easily available, it just seems more prevalent these days.  Advertisers always tried to make their food look better and the people look better, but the sad truth is that the reality is nothing like the ads.  Comparing a sandwich or burger you actually receive from the retailer is no where close to what they made it look like in the pictures.   
Now, there is so much more emphasis on being perfect, or the idea of perfect. The images of the models, looking so unrealistic, compared to normal people.  I get that the ideal is to be skinny, flawless skin, great hair, but the truth is that is not how most people look.
The makeup routines to make yourself basically look like a completely different person are unbelievable.  Looking at these pictures on social media of these gorgeous men and women and then seeing the videos how they transform is eye opening.  I've seen women with no teeth, horrible skin, awful hair and just other unflattering traits, transform into what I would consider super models, with just the use of makeup, false teeth and tape!  It seems like no one is happy with their appearance any more.  Even the super wealthy, beautiful people find a need to use photoshop because maybe their feet look too big in a picture or it was taken on their "bad" side.
I would rather someone with flaws on the outside that has firm beliefs and takes action to make them reality vs. a hollow, pretty person who's only concerned with how many followers they have or how many likes, retweets, shares their pictures receive.  
With all of the editing software, it's hard to accept a photo as reality.  The images they alter make people believe they are living a better life than the rest of us, when in reality, maybe they really aren't.  
Products follow the same suit as people.  All of the emphasis is on what it looks like, not the quality.  I shop online a lot, like most people, and it's hard to find a good quality product.   I don't care how you package it, does it do what it's supposed to do, that's what I'm concerned about.  I'd rather buy something that maybe isn't the most pleasing to look at, but works like I need it to.  Fake reviews to pump up your product are easier to sniff out now, but it's hard to trust what you're reading as truth.  
