Modern society is completely materialistic to a fault.  People will amass things that they will never have the time to use or enjoy.  We are all consumers, and when we go to work we are making more things to consume.  Everyone is so invested in what the media and entertainers say or do.  We want to be like them, look like them, have what they have, but does that really make us happier?  I think not.  

I have recently had a little bit of extra money and have been overindulging on things I always thought I "needed", but once I had them I quickly lost interest and moved on to the next thing I "needed".  I thought I liked photography, so I bought not one, but two cameras.  They have been sitting around for a few months now, unused.  I have a bunch of paint and canvases I haven't touch in a year. I wanted to get back into making music so I bought all of the equipment and cables I needed to make things work.  I bought a guitar and a bass guitar.  I bought a keyboard.  The thing is, instead of making things easier for me to create I became more overwhelmed by all of the "things" around me.  Where to start?  

We buy streaming services because we need to consume shows that everyone else is watching.  We can't be left out can we?  The streaming services have ads for products that we can't live without. For foods we need to try.  For new cars we need to drive to work to make more "things".  Simplicity is where innovations come from.  Lack of desire of materials is where we should try to steer towards.

People might say it's not a bad thing if it makes you feel good.  After all, you earned your money and you can spend it as you like, right?  I'm not saying that materialism is all bad.  Just excessive materialism.  It's like being on a treadmill that keeps you walking in place.  You will think you have enough "things" but you will always see something else that you "need" that is just out of reach.  Perhaps we should focus on specific materials and "things" that can help us reach our internal goals.  To help us connect with others or with nature or with ourselves.  More experiential spending.  Memories that are priceless.

We look around and want to fit in with others, but there is beauty in being different.  There is beauty in finding self assurance in non material.  A lot of famous celebrities and rich people aren't happy, even with more things than most of us will have in a lifetime.  Again, I'm not saying all materialism is bad.  I think it is overrated.  We have to learn to be happy with ourselves and our works.  We have to learn to be happy in our innate gifts and connections with others in society and th world around us. I'm sure we all have had times when something we though we wanted turned out to be something we didn't need.  Our happiness can never come from an inanimate object.  We see joy when we look into the eyes of a loved one and see their excitement of spending time with you.  That's a happiness that can't be replaced, replicated, and mass produced.
 


