How does someone find true happiness? Is there a formula that you can apply to your life that will make you happier than the Jones family next door? Imagine waking up, walking to the mirror, and looking at yourself. Is the person staring back at you really happy? Would this person be able to pass a lie-detector test when asked if they are happy? Let's say that person passes with flying colors. That person is truely happy. Did this happiness come from their own goals being reached, or did it come from helping others? I believe that neither is the answer. There must be a balance of goals reached from one's own self-interest, and providing help to others. 

Through my own experiences I have found true happiness when I have set a difficult goal, and worked hard to achieve that goal. For example, one morning I woke up with the crazy idea to run a marathon. This goal would benefit noone else but myself. Noone else could get me past the finish line, or prepare me for the race. Over the course of four months I found myself waking up early each morning to train and get ready for a 26.2 mile race. If I were to slack off, and not train, I was not hurting anyone else, but I was also not helping anyone else. On the day of the race, I experienced some of the most mentally and physically challenging obstacles in my life. I had to push myself mentally and physically to reach the finish line. When I crossed that line, I experienced some of the most pure emotions I had ever felt. It was a great accomplishment. In the end, I didn't help anyone else. I did not do anything for anyone else. But, I did learn a lot about myself and what I could do. This is an example of happiness coming from achieving my own goals. If I were to only do this, only set goals for myself, whether they were financial, physical, or mental, I would do many great things. I would also find gratification in these tasks. However, I would still feel somewhat empty. 

On the other hand, I have spent a lot of time helping others. This isn't to say I'm a better person than someone else, it is just something I did. I spent two years away from home helping other people. This was a service mission I completed. During this experience, I helped others paint their houses, move, do yardwork, worked in soup kitchens, volunteered at hospitals, and visited with the elderly and infirmed in convelesance homes. During this time I met so many amazing people, and had a great sense of worth. I felt great about what I was doing. If I were to only help others, wherever they were, I would do many great things. I would also find gratification in these tasks. However, I would still feel somewhat empty.

There has to be a balance in all things. Too far to one side or the other, and you can find yourself becoming a fanatic, obsessed, incapable of true happiness. In order to be truely happy, you must find a way to accomplish your own goals, while still being humble enough to help others. There are many examples on both sides of that coin who have gone to far. The environmentalist who ends up living in a tree to keep it from being cut down. At one time this individual was simply picking up trash in a park, and before they knew it, they were chained to a tree. On the flip side, there is the kid who started out selling lemonade on the corner, and before he knew it, he was the CEO of his own start-up, obsessed with the next payday or venture.

In order to find happiness, you must find balance. Be humble, listen, and learn. Find those who disagree with you, and listen to them. Find those you want to change, and walk a mile in their shoes. Be the example the world needs by working hard at making your self better and achieving your goals, and then work to share you knowledge and gifts with others. Only if you do these things, can you find peace and happiness in yourself. 
