In todays word technology is everywhere, social media is huge part of technology and todays kids and adults seem to send hours everyday on social media. Are the images and impressions having too much of an effect of people? I would say yes absolutely!

Imagine scrolling through your news feed instagram, everything and everyone looks absolutley perfect. While you sit on your couch scrolling and looking around at your messy house that your kids have destroyed for the millionth time today that can make you feel like maybe you arent good enough. After all your hair is a mess your house is a mess and it can feel like your life is a mess looking at all of these perfect people on instagram. As an adult you know that these people use filters they either ignore their kids or have a nanny or sitter watching them so they can get the perfect shot or video. Still it is hard to not feel like your life is in shambles looking at the perfection you see in your news feed. 

Imagine being am impressionable teenager and scrolling through all these perfect peoples post on instagram and thinking you'll never be good enough smart enough or pretty enough to look or be like these people you see.  That can destroy your self esteem and make you feel broken. 

It can be hard to dissassociate Instagrams reality with actual reality no matter what your age is. Adults today didnt grow up on social media but kids today have been on social media being bombarded with images of the perfect life, perfect house, perfect figure. In reality no ones life is perfect. Life is messy, life is crazy, but most of all life is not perfect no one is perfect no matter how hard you try. 

You might say well these people seem like their life is perfect their house is perfect their kids are even perfect. That may seem true on the surface but if you dig a little deeper you might notice that what they are portraying isnt their real life, at all. They use filters so they look perfect they were massive amounts of makeup to hide their imperfections and create the perfect look. They might even seem like they are on vacation everyday but in reality they spend their life trying to look perfect and seem perfect in every way instead of actually enjoying life. 

Who cares if you wear the best clothes or makeup. Who cares if you get your hair done at the fanciest salon. Who cares if you get your nails done everyweek at the nail salon. Who cares if you have the best figure or the fanciest house. Social media images and impressions have had such an affect on people adults and kids alike that more than half of society believes they have to be perfect to be loved. 

You do not have to have the cleanest house, the best figure, the best clothes or even use the best makeup. Those things wont make you happy. Friends, family, experiences youve shared with people you love those are the things that will fill your life with joy not what social media has portrayed as perfect. You cannot buy happiness.  All the time you spend putting on makeup cleaning your house and all the money you spend having the most expesive items take away from the time you spend with loved ones. It takes away from the experiences you have in real life. Social media is not real. Social media uses images and impressions to make you spend money so you can feel good enough. Even though you are good enough you have always been good enough and you dont need these things to feel that way. 
