Happiness is a thing of the mind, people derive happiness from different things in their lives. Everyone aspires for a certain level of happiness, and all individuals derive this happiness either from their own personal activities or by engaging in different activities with other people, or by just being happy because other people are happy. It is important for every individual to be happy and know what brings them happiness. People also derive joy when they see other people improving immunity by doing things and helping other people when they are need.

Every individual at different times find their happiness in different things. I am of the opinion that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals. There is a level of satisfaction that comes with achieving a certain goal or reaching a milestone in one's life. And once these goals have been acheieved, it brings so much joy and happiness to the ife of the person. Some people might not derive so joy from the happiness of others, or even if at all, they get happiness from others, the happiness might be shortlived but when they focus on their own personal goals and they come out successful in it, the happiness lasts for almost a lifetime.

There are different timeframe for a happy feeling, happiness that comes and goes within just a few moment of other people sharing a good news is different from the duration of happiness that comes from focusing on personal goals and achieving the goal. I have had this kind of experience in my personal life, a friend once shared a good news with me on a job he had been trying to get for a very long time, and he was finally able to get the job, I was very happy for him but this happiness was short lived as with time, I forgot about the good news. On the other hand, I had personal goals I was working on at the time, and hoping it becomes a success, it eventually became futile and the happiness I had was overwhelming, I even celebrated my wins with friends and family, there was this joy and fulfilment that came from within me, and I always still remember this episode because it was for myself and it was very eprsonal to me, and as such the happiness is everlasting. 

People's happiness that comes from the happiness of others don't last as long as happiness that comes when people focus on their personal goals. People most often depend on the happiness that comes from within themselves, they feel more confident in their own achievement that brings them extreme happiness than on the happiness of others or the improvement fo humanity. It is not all the time people other people have good news to share, so when there is no good  news from others that brings happiness, this means that the individuals who have focused on the happiness of others will have nothing to be happy about. Hence, it is better to focus on personal goals that will bring a lifelong happiness rather than focusing on the happiness of others.

In conclusion, people would always tend to be more happy if they focus on their personal goals than on the happiness of others. It is important for people to have personal goals that they work on that would bring them great happiness which would stick to them throughout their existence rather than focusing on the happiness of others that may never come or that may not come as often as expected, or focusing on the improvement of  humanity which may not even be as much enticing as expected.   

 
