Why do I believe that images and impressions can have a bad effect on people, even causing diabetes and obesity in children? Everywhere you go, you see advertising and commercials for snacks, foods, clothing and other products. And of course, they only tell you the positive things whether true or false because they are a money making machine dependant on you spending your money to keep them in business. 

The children's cereal and snack industry have some of the most deleterious items available. Their commercials are on television constantly and even offer games, toys, etc., if you buy them. They add unneccessary, unhealthy recipes filled with sugar, sodium, artificial colorings filled with empty calories and very little vitamin and nutrients. 

All of those Fruity Pebbles, Count Chocula, Frosted Flakes have so much sugar added and if you read the actual information on the caloric and fat value, it is shocking. Kids see them on television and ask their parents to buy them because they make them look attractive by adding artificial flavors and coloring and show kid actors enjoying these products. Oftentimes parents buy them because they are busy working, taking care of the family and want their children to be happy and to eat their breakfast. Very few children beg for oatmeal, Cream of Wheat, Wheaties, Shredded Wheat or other healthier alternatives, they don't push them on children in advertising. 

We have a major child obesity crisis in America and it is caused by the unhealthy eating these kids adopt from an early age. Childhood obesity often leads to obese teens and adults and then diabetes and heart issues become a problem later in life. Lack of exercise adds to the mix but all that sugar zaps children from their energy by giving them a sugar high and burnout, they don't feel like exercising ones that hits. I have a niece who had an overweight childhood until I took her over for one summer. I fed her omelets made with real vegetables, fresh home-made salads and took her walking with me for a few miles every day. The results were awesome, she lost about 50 pounds and started caring more about her appearance and her exercise. We have diabetes in our family, her grandfather and her mother and father were all diabetic, to this day, she is now 54 and no diabetes. 

Millions of parents are more concerned with their children eating than about what they are eating, they make the argument that at least their child is well-fed. They continue to support the cereal industry by spending millions every year and our obesity numbers go up. The parents often work one or more jobs and are trying to do what they can to house, feed and provide everything their families need. When a child is crying out for a certain cereal in the store, parents often give in just to quiet them down and they don't have time to read every nutrition label. They figure that if it's out there on the shelves and on television, it has not been taken off the market, it must be safe. 

We need to fight for truth in advertising, maybe stickers on products that state they have added sugars, artificial flavoring, colors, etc. Our biggest wall in fighting this comes from all the big money that keeps these products available. We need more stickers like on cigarettes that state that constant use of these cereals can lead to obesity and that at best, portion control should be utilized. They should also state that these should be eaten by children maybe 2-3 times a week and be supplemented by a healthier alternative. 
