The way success is measured could mean something different from one person to the next. An easy argument one may make in order to be successful is to be the best to everyone else in what they are trying to achieve. Another person may consider success as more of a personal accomplishment and reaching an internal goal as opposed to being better than another person all together. 

No one wants to feel as though they have failed at something which is why everyone seems to crave success in their lives. It is something that makes us, as humans, feel like we have accomplished something or have done something meaningful with our time. There is little reward felt when achievements are made without trying. Getting to the top of your career field or winning a gold sports medal may appear as a success on paper but how this achievement is reached and how this victory is used can be much more defining.

Imagine a child that dreams of becoming an olympic medalist. Success in their mind has not happened until they have reached the gold medal. Perhaps they let their grades slip due to their focus being so heavy on their dream and after high school it pays off when they have been invited to perform in the Olympics. Obviously, this is a very competitive position to be in since only one person will be taking home the medal when all participants are there for the same thing. 

At the end of the competition, is everyone that did not come in first place not successful? There is a sense of success for all that competed against eachother. Being the absolute best does not always define success. Success should be measured by the hard work put in to get as far as you did. Just because you were passed up in the competition does not mean you did not give it 110% or even that you did more than others, it is still a reflection of the hard work you put in. 

Overall, it is important to remember that you can be truly successful without constantly competing to be number 1. Cooperating with others and yourself along the way to your goal will give you the best results. Success should be measured by how much you were able to get out of what you put in. 
