     When one asks the near-eternal--and at this point nearly rhetorical--question "what is the meaning of life?", one is frequently met with the response of simply "be happy", or to do what one must in order to find happiness. However, arriving at the way to find pure happiness is perhaps just as difficult as divining one's raison d'etre. The mere fact that this is itself an age-old conundrum certainly makes the subject worthy of further thought and discussion, well into our present age.
     It is true that there are a number of schools of thought behind how one can best find happiness. There are some who stridently argue that it is only through self-denial and committment to the well-being of others that one can find true and selfless contentment. Or, better yet, not just to support another individual toward his personal happiness, but to pledge oneself to the betterment of humanity at large. Alternatively, there are those who posit that it is through focusing on the self that enables one to find true happiness; a more hedonic and self-serving bliss. Both sides are able to present compelling evidence and, depending on the skill of the orator or philosopher, it is easy enough to accept their conclusions as forgone. However, I think that the true strength in discerning the answer to the question of happiness is that one need not simply choose one side. 
     Therefore, my answer to the happiness equation is a more measured one. Thinking back to the times in one's memory that made one the happiest, surely one will find instances of pleasure arrived at alone, but also those where they were merely the observer in the vignette, and not even directly influenced by those involved. To pick only an existence in which pursuing personal goals at all costs in order to obtain happiness is surely an empty one, purely because it is not possible to maintain an unending active level of pursuit at all times. Instead, it would be wise to rely on others (and to observe the trials and tribulations of others while they attempt to pursue their own personal goals) for the happiness that cannot be always self-derived.
     Naturally the idea of committing oneself to the so-called "greater good" could be thought of as noble, but a loftier goal such as that is not always as achievable; we are not all so important as to actually have the ability to effect change on a grand, or even meaningful, scale. Perhaps happiness can be better found by setting smaller, much more personal and achievable goals on a shorter timeline so that the passion and fervor for success can be maintained, yet tempered with the parameters that the goal is a "stretch" and not a definite/easy win. Pushing oneself to one's limits, but also feeling confident in one's abilities, is where happiness can be found, bolstered with the knowledge that this is not the only avenue to find happiness, which can instead be supplemented with a healthy dose of fostering the growth of others, and finding happiness through their successful pursuit of their goals as well.
