For the past thousands of years, humanity has always been geared towards wealth and the obtainment of items to represent such wealth in a tangible way. Ancients collected naturally-occurring ores and built opulent shrines for their rulers, people in the 20s swilled alcohol and flocked to jazz clubs wearing their pearls and furs, and now we collect Teslas, Birkin bags, and the newest iPhones upon release, no matter how obsolete they'll be by the next year.

As someone who has attempted a more simple lifestyle in the last two years, I've noticed the effects of unnecessary spending on my back account and my carbon footprint. So many objects being purchased and forgotten about with the global effects now being immeasureable. Due to the dire condition of our planet, I think it's a necessity to criticize modern society for being materialistic.

To quantify these effects, climate change has been an issue for the past 20 years with doctors often warning about the "doomsday clock" tickling ominously towards 12am. The EPA's standards are constantly reversed with smokestacks and cars clouding our skies eroding our ozone layer. More of the world consumes items to alleviate the negativity of everyday life. Social media is the prime example of this, people posting Shein hauls for the sake of Youtube views and trashing the clothing afterwards. Mental health is a primary factor in why we can't seek validation and happiness within ourselves that doesn't require using Afterpay.

Many do not understand the effects of their individual actions. Buying a simple Amazon package puts so much stress on the environment. The United States is one of the largest culprits of practicing materialism and the way the country's carbon footprint is spreading across the planet is devastating. Polar ice caps are melting, temperatures are well into the 100s before summer, animals are rapidly going extinct, and coral reefs are dying at exponential rates because of sunscreen chemicals washing into our oceans. Materialism also enables child labor still existing in so many companies because young, displaced children create these glitzy baubles that won't be around in ten years.

In conclusion, materialism should be reviled as a social aspect but it goes way beyond that for me. Hoarders are looked to as "freaks" because of uncontrollable buying, but are we truly any better than that? As a collective, our materialism has hoarded the planet into a tailspin and just like compulsive buying it should be treated as an illness. Materialism has corrupted us as a society whether the effects are from killing someone over a gold chain to our planet dying before our eyes.

