          Materialism is the act of buying and aquiring items by spending money and it is a fairly controversal topic.  Even though it is criticized, we as humans spend the majority of our life working in order to consume products, whether we need them or want them. I believe that materialism is part of being human because somewhere down the road, somebody started equating happiness and meaning to "aquiring possessions and spending money". Therefore due to materialism being universal, it should not be critized by modern society but being materialistic is understandably critized against. 

          There is a lot of criticism towards people who are materialistic which, in my opinion, is a little bit different than materialism. I see materialistic as something that describes an individual whose life revolves around their material possessions. Their happiness, their social status, how they live their life, and how they treat other people all comes down to material items. I understand society's criticism over people being to materialistic because usually people who are materialistic are selfish, greedy, and have a low opionion on those who do not hold the same views when it comes to purchasing material items. Someone who is materialistic is more likely to refuse to buy something if they cannot have the high end brand, for example, a woman not wearing a peice of jewelry that was a gift because it did not come from Tiffany's. That is an  example of someone who is extremely materialistic but that type of behavior is something I relate to those who are very materialistic. 

         Materialism, in my opinion, is different because again it is the act of buying and acquiring possessions but unlike materialistic, their lives do not revolve around those possessions. So I understnad the crisiticm towards people who are materialistic, even though being critical of it is not very helpul, but do not understnad people being  critical over materialism. To me that would be a bit hypocritical since most if not all humans like and enjoy going out and buying new things for themselves. 


