Competition is all around us. Society starts pitting us against each other at an early age. Kids are encouraged to try out for sports teams because that it what they are supposed to do. Organized sports can be a great experience for kids but can also be toxic. It can lead to children believing they have to be better than everyone else at everything they do. What if parents took out the 'competition' and encouraged their kids to work as a team? I believe society would be better for it if there was more cooperation and less competition. 

A good example of cooperation versus competition is professional team sports. Athletes are constantly competing to be the best at what they do and competing against themselves. Many times you see a team suffer for it because not everyone is working together. If an athlete has their own agenda, they may go against what is right and do what they think is best for them. They might choose to do something to better their personal stats that ends up costing the team. 

With mental health as bad as it is now, competition is also dangerous. Humans are made to be indivuals and we all have different strengths and weaknesses. If we are always comparing ourselves to others and competing to be the best, we will never be satisfied. Competition can leave someone feeling inadequate, spurring negative thoughts about themselves that aren't true. We are wired to focus on negative thoughts and once that seed is planted, it is hard to uproot it. Working in a team, using everyone and playing to each persons strengths, not only will promote a positive work environment but it will lead to better productivity. I know when I am feeling down, my energy is low, I do not want to do anything and leads me to fall behind in my work. When I am being encouraged and feel like I am contributing, I am able to get more work done and have a positive attuitude while working. 

I do believe there is such thing as healthy competition, especially in the workplace. Competition can lead employees to more efficient work if they think there is an incentive to 'win.' This can be done in a fun, healthy way that promotes team work along with competition. The goal or outcome should be something positive that benefits everyone, rather than something that only benefits the winner. 

We see competition daily on reality shows, sports, in politics and in school. Healthy competition does exist but humans have an urge to be the best, so the majority of the time competition turns into something that leaves a negative impact. When people work together, more times than not the outcome will be for the better. 
