Most people in this world will voice their distaste when they find someone they know to be materialistic. However disgusted they are, though, materialism is most likely part of their personality as well. We as humans tend to feel annoyed at other's behavior when we actually secretly do it ourselves. Modern society should be criticized not only for materialism but for this kind of hypocrisy.

What is materialism? The desire to have physical (material) possessions and to acquire more, such as cars, expensive clothing, designer handbags, jewelry, fine houses, collectables, and many other things. 

Why is it despicable? Many claim materialism is despicable because it places an emphasis on greed, drives people to purchase excess (grossly beyond what they need for basic survival) and drives them into debt. The consumption also hurts the environment. More factories are needed to meet the demand and this can cause pollution. For example, carbon emissions from cars, particularly those expensive, gas guzzling cars, pollute the air and have contributed to the destruction of the ozone layer. If you believe in global warming, mass consumption is believed to have caused climate change as well. Some claim the planet will eventually become inhabitable due to this. This harmful form of materialism is almost malevolent and gluttonous in nature and should be criticized.

Why isn't it despicable? If you have the means to acquire numerous possessions (meaning you can afford it) then why shouldn't you enjoy all the delightful things the world has to offer? There are many things you can buy and collect that are sustainable as well. You do not necessarily have to be contributing to the destruction of the planet if you buy a lot of things. If you are conscientious, you might even help the world by purchasing consumer goods from companies that work toward bettering the environment. This form of materialism is benign, even benevolent, and should not be criticized.

In summary, modern society should be criticized for HARMFUL materialism. It is up to each individual person to gauge whether or not their consumption is harmful or benign. Perhaps if done in moderation, we can all still enjoy material possessions.
