Today's modern society is extremely materialistic.  All you have to do is look at the news to see that.  There are wars being fought over oil and money.  Society pretends that it is over some higher cause but in reality it is simply over material gain.  From the countries fighting over material things down the individual it is a common everyday occurrence.  People want material objects and money.  They view having the most of anything as being in a position of power over others and this is very much a driving force. Society has brainwashed people into believing that they must have power over someone in order to be happy.  To further this cause there are stores  everywhere. People can buy things in person and even online at any time of the day.  Our very society is geared toward the goal of buying things constantly. Someone somewhere profits off of another all of the time.
However, the goal of buying material objects and of even occumulating money is not what makes a person satisfied and happy.  Sure, our society tells us that it will, but that is only so that someone can have and make more.  The truth is, the more a person drives themself to the goal of making more money and buying more things the more unhappy they are.  The more unfilled that person is.  Ironically, this also drives the person to obtain more because society has conditioned them to believe that is the only way to be happy if they begin to feel bad. That is a lie.  Modern society a lie. The real way to be happy is to focus on learning and growing and helping one another.  When a person focuses on that they become happy and fulfilled.
Society, on the other hand fights that truth hard because it is ruled by people who are insecure and in desperate need of power over someone.  They want others to feel the same way that they do. They believe that will make them happy but it does not. It is a never ending cycle of insecurity and dysfunction. So, in the end everyone pursues obtaining money and material things and no one is happy.
My advice is to go against society.  Realize that insecure people are the driving force behind what society is and change yourself for the better.  If you truly want to be happy and confident, you must not pursue money and things.  Material objects are just that, material. They are meaningless in reality.  You see material objects and money can be replaced but life can not. Modern society should be radically changed and ignored until is due to it's materialistic, hollow approcach. Tell everyone you know about how wrong modern society is.  Most importantly, open your eyes and see what is truly meaningful, what society should truly be, and pursue that instead.  
