In today's world of carefully edited images and finely crafted social media sources, images and impressions certainly affect people too much. The ability to create exactly how a person or entity would like to be perceived by the masses is incredibly easy and cannot possibly be healthy for either the person creating the content or the people they send their messages to.

Authenticity is what makes relationships meaningful and is the basis of trust and thus the building blocks for friendship. How can one possibly build true freindships when what is being depicted in social media posts is based only on the best of people's lives. Life is not always perfect and for people to only see this one side can lead to feelings of inadequecy and depression. In advertisments, the touched up images of people with perfect skin and perfect bodies leads to many people questioning why they are not getting the same results by using the advertised products. In reality it is all a lie and one that we all buy into. Companies need to be aware of the consequences of their actions when they set out to create particular impressions. We are living in a society where value is given to people like the Kardashian family who are just regular people living their lives. We are in awe of their lavish lifestyle while not giving enough attention to the true heroes in our world...the firefighters, doctors, nurses, truckdrivers, and so many more who make our lives richer.

It can be said that content creators help companies market their products and enable them to reach a wider audience. While this is likely true, we must ask ourselves at what cost? It is a well known fact that there is a mental health crisis in our country. Is marketing in this way really worth destroying the mental health of people? I don't believe so. It could also be argued that by only sharing social media posts of advertisements that depict positive, pretty images, companies are able to spread positivity. However, there is another side to these advertisements and images that should not be ignored. The environmental impact of producing these products is rarely advertised but it should be. Packaging, while beautiful, is often excessive and uneccessary and ends up in landfill at the end of the day.

Overall the advancement of technology has allowed for some important breakthroughs in society but one that has made society worse is the images and impressions used in advertisements and the images fed to us through multiple sources every day. Let's work to use technology in a healthy way that promotes wellbeing rather than destroy it. Let's get back to authenticity.


