Materialism is a main theme in modern society. With civilization being mainly capitalist, of course economics play a role. So naturally it's fair to criticize society for being materialistic.

This criticism however needs to be fair and a broad view of what materialism brings from a positive and negative aspect. The acquisition of material items is not necessarily a bad thing, but the point of criticism should be factored into the overall character of a specific society. As in, if a society is materialistic, but also takes care of the less fortunate, curbs poverty, uses materialism for innovation and to advance the needs of the whole society, it's not a bad thing. But if materialism is purely based on greed and narcissism, the criticism needs to be harsh and unrelenting.

But for the most part, materialism tends to take on the latter form, and is a selfish act. Look at materialistic societies, especially in the western world and see how materialism harms society overall. Materialistic groups, like business and corporations, use this form of selfishness to harm the environment around them, and only looking to add to their wealth and revenue. People that value material items tend to be less empathetic to others as well.

We should look at all aspects of materialism. We cannot ignore the impact that materialism has only played in our modern society. Many of our technology advances, from smart phones to electric cars to vaccines, came because of materialism. At the same time, it has made society consume more, which has correlated with a negative impact on the issue of climate change. 

From the other side of the spectrum, the impact that unmaterialism has had on the world is unmatched, from religious views that focus on selflessness to people who sacrifice their own wellbeing for others. From benevolent professions like teachers and nurses that are capitalistic in nature, focusing less on possessions does truly help others.

From a philosophical perspective, the adages that life is short, you only live once are attitudes many people live by and can be positive guides for life. But few of them put any emphasis on the items you own as opposed to the experiences you have and the impact you have on others.

In short, it is more than fair to criticize materialism. Feel free to even criticize this essay for its role as a materialistic task, as the monetary gain and the possessions that it can help acquire motivated this writer to compose this essay. Any criticism, like the objects materialism values, is well-deserved.
