I do believe that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.  As the prompt clearly outlines, people often want or get the item that looks better, even if it isn't actually better.  I've seen it many times in my daily life, whether that be a commercial or a billboard.  

We overlook how well an object performs, preferring form over function.  One example is the clothing industry.  Most of women's clothes don't have the same features as men's.  Case-in-point, pockets.  Women's clothing has very few pockets, and when they do get pockets, they're small or flimsy.  Designers prefer to keep things looking "sleek" for women, instead of offering something women actually want.  Another example in the clothing industry is fast fashion.  People seem to always want the latest trends, even if the article of clothing is only going to get a few uses, since it's made so cheaply that it will fall apart.  Because of this, landfills are filling up with slightly used clothing that isn't biodegradable.

Think about this example: you see a commercial full of happy people, with a catchy tune.  What do you think they are advertising?  It really is anyone's guess, but more often than not it seems to be commercials for pharmaceuticals.  They're basically saying that if you take this medication, you, too, can be just as happy and bright as these people.  However, this isn't actually the case.  The medicine usually has its own set of side effects and have prohibitive costs.  However, we are instructed to "ask our doctor if it's right for us." 

Some might argue that this just the state of advertising today, and that it isn't their fault that we fall for the gimmicks. However, I think that this is part of the problem with capitalism.  The advertising industry preys on children with their brightly colored cereal boxes and character lunch boxes.  Parents sometimes don't know which product is better, so they end up going for it, too, even if it's more expensive.

Because we as humans prefer looks over ability, we miss out on so many opportunities.  We have singers and actors who can't land a record deal or role, because the casting agents are looking for what will appeal to the wider audience.  This disproportionately affects Black, Indiginous, and People of Color.  Police are very good at looking at a person and judging them based on what they look like, to decide if they're "good" or "bad." A Black man walking down the street with a cell phone in hand can get shot by a policeman just based on how he appears, even if the man has no prior charges and is studying to become a lawyer.  America is very good at being discriminatory based on looks, which isn't helping anyone.  Homeless people have a hard time getting jobs, in part because of how they look.

No matter who you are, you are not immune to this effect.  It's called implicit bias.  The only way to move past implicit bias is to recognize it, own it, and then work on correcting it.  Yes, we can judge people by their appearance, and first impressions are important, but it shouldn't be the only quality of a person we look at or look for.

In conclusion, people are prone to favoring certain items or people because of their appearance, but it's problematic.  It creates waste, prejudice, and needless spending.  Society needs to stand up to product manufacturers and demand better.  We deserve clarity and transparency in the products we buy.  We also need to stand up for BIPOC and demand that society treats them better as well by combatting overt and covert racism, and dealing with implicit bias in us all.  
