In our society, images and impressions have an overwhelming influence on people. Rather than being an accurate representation of information, they are often misleading. This has a negative effect on many aspects of our lives.

First, our capitalist society, driven by consumer culture, has led to the birth of a massive advertisement industry. Whereas advertisements used to focus on the features of the product they are selling, they are now designed to captivate audiences and appeal to their emotions, not their logic. This has arguably led to increasing financial insecurity and depleted savings accounts, as consumers are made to believe that they "need" to buy this and that product in order to be accepted by their peers. This shift in the priority of businesses also means that there is less focus on quality products or fair prices for consumers. After all, it is expensive to produce these cinematic advertisements and that is money that could be spent in a way that would benefit consumers more directly. Unfortunately, businesses have realized it is much easier to create a stellar impression of a mediocre product than to actually create a stellar product itself. Specifically, Apple is a company whose products have declined in quality while increasing in price. 

Additionally, public figures have begun to cash in on this phenomenon. Rather than articulating their positions on important issues, politicians have become increasingly focused on shaping their public image. This can take on various forms, the most blatant of which are publicity stunts, in which they go somewhere just to take pictures and appear empathetic to a cause that they have not taken any action to support. In recent memory, Donald Trump, while President, walked across the street to take a picture in front of a church despite not being a religious person. This does not benefit the everyday person and will ultimately lead to an even more ineffective system of government. To a certain degree, other public figures such as entertainers also focus on their public image but I don't think that has as big of an impact on people. When it comes to politicians, the idea is that people should have a genuine, honest understanding of the person they are voting for and what they represent. 

In conclusion, the increasing impact of images and impressions in our society have led to the decline of genuine sources of truth, to the detriment of us all. However, before we despair, I believe there are still opportunities for us to improve. Media literacy is important and can help individuals be more discerning about the information they intake.
