Let's start by being real - A vast majority of us are purchasing materialistic items even if we don't realize we are. Earning money, spending money, earning money, spending money - that is simply the way it works. Whether we are spending on the necessities to live, or knowingly or unknowingly buying that delicious smelling fall candle (aka that materialistic item). It's almost inevitable. What happens when being materialistic comes before basic living? This question raises my next and most important question - should we critiscize modern day society for being materialistic?

The answer is yes, we really should be criticizing modern society for being materialistic. Moreso, for being TOO materialistic. Wanting, earning, and buying materialistic items you have an interest in or love for is one thing, but since when did our social status amongst our friends/families/colleagues become about the things we own and can show off? Is it really important to buy a brand new vehicle that you can show off and gain social status for, instead of owning an average reliable vehicle and gaining social status by providing enjoyable company? Our society has put too much into relying on materialistic items for acceptance by others. Sure, we can buy our children the $80 outfit from the brand name store that they will grow out of in no time. Will that outfit leave an ever-lasting impact on our kids? Or will they simply move on to the next materialistic item they can get their hands on? Instead, why not take them out to dinner or a movie or to the bookstore, and talk with them? Or, let them have a sleepover with friends and make a homemade pizza, and a night full of laughs? Surely, that would mean more to them for a longer period of time. 

Now, many will disagree with everything I have said so far. It's true, there are some benefits to being materialistic. The main one being that is money going in to our economy. This helps businesses to stay open, and employees to have jobs. In this sense, purchasing materialistic items should not be criticized. At some point, though, so much of society is becoming too materialistic, and spending money they don't have on materialistic items. Where are we then? Filing for bankruptcy, unable to afford basic necessitites, becoming depressed? If we all took the time to think about what we love and enjoy, then put our money into that, we could have the best of both worlds. For example, I love reading. Do I NEED books? No, they are a materialistic item I purchase (especially when I buy them brand new). However, it is something I am able to do with my children, and on my own time that allows me to relax. I am supporting local bookstores when buying my materialistic item (my books), but I am not purchasing them to impress anyone.

Again, being materialistics is almost inevitable. So again I ask, should modern society be critisized for being materialistic? I stand by my answer, yes. We have become so wrapped up in being materialistic because we want to be liked. We can have conversation via text, social media, and so many other ways these days, it's as if we've lost touch with basic, genuine, face to face conversation. In turn, we have resorted to being materialistic to impress, as a conversation stater, and to yes - show off. We as a society have got to learn that materialistic items are not everything. The memories, conversations, laughs, and quality time together will forever mean more than that brand new car you bought. 
