Images and impressions can have both a positive and a negative effect on people. Personally, I tend to base a majority of my opinions on a first impression or on what I see with my own two eyes. The media has a lot of influence when it comes to the impression that people have  about certain products or people as well. They actually control what people think about the world and what is going on around them.

I do not agree with the way that the media can control and influence the way that people think and feel when it comes to the world. I try to avoid watching the news or the tv shows that tell you about the more influencial people in the world due to this appaling fact. There is no reason for me to hate someone who lives in another country just because the news said they wouldn't give my country something. Maybe they just don't enough to spare right now. Maybe they can't afford it. Why should I get mad at them for it? 

The media can make someone like or hate a politician or actor or even a country or city. All the media has to do is omit one word or sentence or part of a scene or video. They have been found to change words around and even change the way someone said something. I try to avoid watching the news or the tv shows that tell you about the more influencial people in the world due to this appaling fact. Everything tends to get mixed up and confused by the time the news tells me about it. 

Its like playing the telephone game in elementary school. My teachers used to try to teach us that talking about each other was wrong and by the time it gets back to that person or the orginal person, its messed up and completely wrong. I couldn't believe some of the things that came out as the end result. Nothing like what was originally said. This is how I perceive the media. Except they do it on purpose. 

I personally try not to base my opinions and feelings on the first impressions. Notice I said 'try'. It's a very hard thing to do. I fail miserably at it, too. The media does not influence my opinion very much and I try to stay away from it. Pictures and videos say a million more words than people will ever tell you, but please make sure that you are gaining the correct meaning of what you are looking at because your negative impression could end up being detrimental to someone else. If you think your impression about an image or topic or person is not right or your confused, my suggestion would be to ask clarifying questions and try to find out the truth so you can base your impression or opinion on the WHOLE truth, not just pieces of it. 







