Wealth, in terms of one's value, can lead to unwelcome traits within a person's character and decisions. As money doesn't translate into happiness, neither does having an excess. Modern society is centered around social media, where everything and everyone is available at the touch of one's hand. We're constantly comparing ourselves to the pristine, often edited imagery of others. If another person presents one brand or style as ideal, we follow suit to mesh with the crowd. The ease of access and social pressure it creates is a cause of the materialistic nature of our world.

In the past, one relied upon the familial unit to live. Children were raised by their elders, both parents and grandparents, and often remained in close proximity to their birthplace. If your parents worked within an industry, chances were high that you'd follow suit as their apprentice. In this respect, towns had established roles for families and groups. Each tradesman was responsible to provide for their community which created a harmonious environment.

A century ago, society wasn't the same battlegrounds that it is today. Conflicts that arose weren't trivial in nature, or petty. The reason for this is due the lack of wealth and prosperity. Fewer individuals were considered wealthy or upper class, and the majority were of more meager means. People didn't care about the make or model of their car or which neighborhood their house resided in. As long as there was food on their table and a roof over their head, a family was content.

Modern society has become a competition where one's status is constantly being evaluated by one's peers; whether inquired about, or not. Chances are, an aquaintence may care more about your wardrobe than yourself. As the average individual has more disposable income through domestic growth of wealth, there are more funds available. People now care about where they vacation and attend school because its been associated with one's place in the social order. Consider how eager a person is to capture a moment and share it with an audience instead or enjoying a relaxing trip; it's now commonplace to take selfies and post.

Technology plays a vital role in materialism. The ease at which one can see something online and make a purchase is alarming. Before an individual can consider whether they actually need, or should buy a product, it could be delivered to their doorstop. What makes matters worse, is that credit cards allow a person to acquire items that they perhaps cannot afford. While buyer's remorse may exist, it doesn't exactly stop frivilous spending habits. At the end of the day, the resources that create our prized possessions were all taken from the same source. Why should they be valued more based on the impression they make to others?

Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic, but that critique should first come from within. As individuals, we are aware of our actions; should appropriate thought be made. Humans are able to survive on much less than we have, as evidenced by our ancestors. We don't actually require expensive cars, clothing, and real estate. Those expenditures are more often an effort to boost one's status. If one truly had the ability to ignore external influences, they'd have a happier life and more in their savings account. There's freedom in being content with one's self. Material possessions may be able to mask one's personality, but eventually the true self will be revealed.
