Materialism is a word often used in a derisive way to label someone as shallow, concerned only with material goods. But is there an argument that would indicate that materialism, at least to some degree, is not such a bad thing? Could it even be a good thing?

I believe that in our society, and economy, materialism shouldn't be considered in such a negative light. In fact, I think it contributes to much of the success of our society. I will endeavor to explain why.

If one could largely separate a person from society and the economy, then the perception of his/her materialistic actions might indeed be negatively viewed. It would perhaps show a disregard for the welfare of others. An interest mostly in materialism might indicate a form of selfishness.

But we don't live completely disentangled from the other members in our society. What we do can and does affect them, if even only a little. And every person in this complex modern society has to have a way to make a living, earn enough to provide them and their families with food, shelter, clothing, and even some entertainment (good for the soul). 

How can each of us have jobs to do that, jobs where we make things like furniture, cars, electronic devices, household goods, clothes, etc.? For us to have such jobs, someone has to buy those goods, those "materials." That is, at least some materialism in our society is what drives our economy, a necessary part of our society. So the buying of goods and enjoying them drives the economy, provides jobs for others, and spreads the wealth.

One could argue that materialism still suggests selfishness, dedication only to materials and not fellow citizens. But is that really true? Does not a parent need to obtain materials to feed his family, clothe his family, provide transportation for his family, provide shelter for his family? Aren't all of these items to take care of one's family all material goods?

I agree that a person could be one who's material purchases all go for himself or herself, and that would be an extreme of materialism that would perhaps poorly  on his or her social character. But a large degree of materialism not totally targeted to one's self is surely a good thing for the economy, stretching thus  to other families, and so on.

So I conclude that even extreme materialism, purchasing only for one's self, might certainly be bad for a person's family if they have one, but even at that, it would help drive the economy and in so help others have jobs and care for their families. Thus at the core, some level of materialism is a necessary ingredient for supporting our economy, which in turn supports our entire society.
