Do you own things? Or do things own you?
I guess, it depends. We all work hard to buy this new TV, get a brand new just released iphone. We dream about a new car, a bigger house. And often we forget that there is more to do in life than just earn, own and spend. The capytalism required people to start thinking about happiness and success in terms of owning material things. It has been achieved successfully. And the race to better things, to owning more will never end. Unless you purposefully end it yourself.
I learn how to trade stocks. My menthor is a great guy. He easily makes 10 thousand dollars a day. He owns cars, watches, the huge house. But he keeps saying, that this is not what makes him happy. Once he started making a lot more than an average american, he realized that he is in a depression. He doesn't know what to do next. Things did not make him as happy as he thought they will. But he still gets up at 4 am and works hard to make money. It is still never enough. Even for the open-minded guy like him. But he tries to navigate his focus and have a healthy life that doesn't depend on the amount of money in his bank account. 
My favorite move is "The Fight Club". It represents my position about materialistic stuff. We all buy things that we don't need. And they start owning us. The things. It is a never-ending circle of earning and buying. And it is something that everyone should start thinking about.
Of course, it is nice to wear a new dress, sit in a shiny car and go for dinner to the nice restaurant. But would not it be better just let it go and feel free? Enjoy every moment, move to Bali, meditate, turn vegan, forget about cosmetics, enjoy every moment. Which never happens when you try to make it. You are always late. Didn't you notice? You are always nervous about this paycheck, about this bonus.  Which side hussle is next?..
I find it hard to find a balance. But each of us definitely should try. We are not here to be remembered by brand of shoes.  But rather create memories for other people and yourself. So maybe it is time to drop this side hussle and hug your kids.
 
