Pursuing in becoming a dental hygienist is the number one goal for me. I had an interest in the dental field since I was eight years old. Every time I go to the dentist's office to get a cleaning, I ask too many questions about instruments or oral hygiene tips. Now, I am not what I want to be, but I am a dental assistant learning more about hygiene tips. It makes me happy to educate patients to maintain their teeth, so they can eat their favorite foods.

Happiness in one's life can lead to healthy lifestyles both mentally and physically. For example, Caitlyn Jenner, who was Bruce Jenner, had enough of hiding her true identity from hiding woman apparel to speaking out for those who are still behind the closet. She is a content and proud transgendered woman because she finally expressed who she really is. However, there are others who take happiness in a different way, such as selfless love. For instance, the Kardashians have all the money in the world from modeling, businesses, and entrepreneurship. In their reality show of "Keeping up with the Kardashians," the whole family does this annual charity and retreat work to help families rebuild their lifestyles after natural disasters or from being homeless in Skid Row. They really could care less on money for themselves but make a difference in the world, especially reducing poverty rates.

However, the tables turn from unexpected circumstances leading to short or long term consequences. Jeff Wittek, the You Tuber, was peer pressured by David Dobrik, also a You Tuber, to swing around the crane. Jeff had a concussion and 10 eye surgeries, which held him from what he loved to do in creating new and fun content to his YouTube Channel. Two years later, he realized that David was not a friend for doing such thing and moved on to keep a healthy lifestyle mentally and physically.

In conclusion, happiness can take in few minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, or years to make one contented. Sometimes, things may not go the way it is planned, but there is always a silver lining through certain circumstances. I am optimistic with what I have for now, but it will take some time to get to that goal. It takes patience to capture that moment as different levels of happiness appear your whole lifetime.
