Materialism seems to be a more contraversial topic than I thought it was. I know that many people debate about it, but to what extent I am unsure of. I'm not a person that can relate to the idea of being materialistic because I do not feel that I rely on material things that much. I personally only buy what I really need in life, such as the basics needed to survive everyday life (food, water, hygiene products, etc.). I do not find myself wanting for many things. 

My reasoning for not wanting material things is because I grew up not having the ability to freely want for something and have at the time that I wanted it. My families financial situation was very scarce. We were barely able to keep the lights and hot water on. So materialistic wants was n0t on my mind, instead I learned to be content with what I was able to get and be grateful for it. I understand that alot of people want what they want, and feel intitled to recieving it. Which I don't think is wrong but I do find that they miss out on the true values in life.

I believe material things desensitizes a person from normal everyday life joys because whatever it is they love buying becomes all that consumes them. Say a person has a love for designer bags. Their love for those bags takes over their lives to an extent because they find that nothing else brings them joy besides seeing that purchase go through. I know a person that is shoe crazed and they literally only talk about shoes. There is not a time that goes by where they are not thinking of or purchasing shoes. And when I am around that person it is hard to discuss other ideas or just to really joke around. On the other hand, I feel that maybe there are other reasons as to why some people are materialistic that most people may not know of. I think that one obvious reason may be not being able to get the things you want when you want or think you need it. Which is the opposite of what I personally chose to do being in my financial situation; meaning being content with my circumstances. Or some other reasons that I can not think of at the moment. I do not think that anyone should be judged or criticized for their choice to spend the money that they earn to buy what they want.

Overall, I do not think that being materialistic is a bad thing. So I do not think that society should be criticized for it. I do however think that more friends and family should reach out to people they know that are like this and just try to interact with them more. So instead of shopping dates try a nice walk or bike in the park. Cook together and enjoy conversation. Engage in other activities that can help that person still experience lifes natural joys. Let them know that you can find happiness in other ways, that items can not fill the gap. I would also keep an open mind or simply ask a person why they choose to do what they do. Get to know more about their views and maybe they can give some clarity to the subject.
