On the streets of Calcutta, Mother Teresa served the poorest of the poor in India. During her lifetime, she accumulated no earthly wealth and had nothing akin to worldly power. But yet she is fondly rememberd by millions around the world. Why?

Because she was working for something much larger than herself.

Goals are something that everyone has. Nobody wakes up with the hope just being for the day. Even if you're goal is to lay in the sun and not be bothered, it's a goal. When your goals are selfish, about your happiness and your fulfillment, you tend to turn inward on yourself, become self-focused and small. All set backs are personal afronts and each challenge is a major point of frustration. When you look for your own happiness foremost, you tend only to find the frustration of not finding it fully.

When you look for your goals and motivation outside of yourself, you are more likely it find fulfillment. Being part of something bigger than you puts you into the right persective; the world is large and the problems of the world are large. Knowing that you can only do your part makes it feel good when something positive happens, and when there is a set back, you recognize that it isn't your fault and that the responsibility is not fully your own.

Being part of a larger movement, you are drawn closer to other people. It is in relationships that people find their greatest fulfillment. When you look to professional sports which are popular in American, they are team sports. Sports in which people work together (and draw in a number of fans). Indvidual sports, more popular in Europe (think track and field), are not a major draw. Sure the lines are a bit murky if you think about the NBA (four guys clearing the defense for one-on-one play), but the idea is solid. In solidarity, people increase there strength and can rest on others.

Clearly satisfaction, or "happiness," comes from outside, not from within. Mankind is created to live in comunity and it is from community where the greatest strength, satisfaction and "happiness" are found. When we think about solitary figures who did their own thing (Ernest Hemingway, for example) they don't end up very "happy." When you think about Mother Teresa, you see nothing but joy in the cause of Christ.
