Materialism usually is synonymous with many negative terms, but without materialism, life as we know it would be completely different. We may have electricity and hot running water (but not necessarily), but beyond that, homes would be bare boned and bland. Most people these days wouldn't know how to function without their phones, let alone the other copious amounts of literal things that we keep around us daily.

I think the biggest factor is the common phrase that "money makes the world go round" (origin of this phrase/quote are unknown but I am not claiming it as my own.) makes the perfect example. If there weren't so many factories and businesses, where would everyone work? There are so many places that make things and even more places that sell those things, from shoes to makeup to bags to clothing to artwork to knick nacks to appliances to cars and so many many many more things.

Without peoples desires for living a materialistic lifestyle, there would be no small businesses. No hobbies and crafts, no beauty. There would be no NEED for pictures, paintings, photographs, sculptures, flower arrangements, or any other kind of 'special touches' to rooms. If you live completely materialistic, you won't want or need the art on your walls or other random things to fill your shelves because it 'looks good'. You don't need jewlery or makeup at all, let alone 20 eyeshadow palettes and thousands in jewlery. You don't need more than one or two pairs of shoes and a weeks worth of clothing. The world would be bland. Yes, there would be less waste, but there would be less of everything and that includes the interesting things that we take for granted everyday.

Another major factor is the fact that most people are goal based. Some choose their goals to be work related (which may not happen if your job is materialism based because your job wouldn't exist) but some also like to work towards objects. They may want to save up for a new tattoo or a new pair of shoes. They may want to save up for a fancy car. Maybe they want to start a crystal business. Perhaps they love to crochet and sell their products. If we don't live materialistically, we live minimally and many of these goals people want to work towards don't exist in a minimalistic world. Sure people can crochet blankets and clothing, but it wouldn't be very successful because there would be much less need for it now because everyone pretty much already has what they need, and honestly probably made it themselves because they have much more time on their hands without phones, computers, and video games.

Of course materialism isn't a perfect situation, there are always ups and downs, but I feel the majority of the world, including those that shun materialism, would be bored and unmotivated in a minimalistic world. They would hate it. We LOVE to live in excess, and even those that are considered minimalistic aren't very minimal. We may say we hate excess but everything we do as a society says the opposite. Most wouldn't know how to function. Materialism is what makes our world what it is today, for better or for worse, but if society didn't like it we wouldn't be living it. Imagine living in a world where you may or may not have electricity or hot water, where you don't have fancy appliances to help you cook and clean, where you can't sit on your phone or computer mindlessly for hours, no youtube or tiktok, high unemployment, low morale, low motivation, and boredom. Would you want to live in that world? No, really think about it. What would you do? Most would hate it. Most people these days couldn't do it. Why criticize society for something we all secretly love and not so secretly need to survive in todays world.
