In today's society, we are often placed in a position of conflicting circumstances. Sometimes, it may be better to play along with the team - ignoring any potential benefits one may gain for themselves; while others it may be better to remain selfish, taking what one can get while they can. This is ultimately a conflict of interests, as both options can yield excellent results depending on the desired outcome. When it comes to producing significant, lasting accomplishments, there is no doubt the choice becomes clear. For individuals seeking to produce significant and lasting accomplishments, cooperation remains the surest way to achieving this goal; for without the help of others, a significant impact simply cannot be made.

When we think about creating a lasting impact on the world, it becomes clear that something significant has to occur. A generational idea, coupled with excellent support might come to mind. A stellar athlete who breaks records and transcends previous generations; setting the bar for descendants to come may also come to mind. Regardless of the nature of a major breakthrough, such impactful feats do not come alone. While one person may accredited with achieving these goals, they are not brought out alone. For each great idea, there comes dozens of hard working individuals who worked tirelessly to implement the idea; transforming an idea into a tangible product, application, company, or even field of study. For each generational athlete, there are coaches, athletic trainers, analysts, and often millions of fans edging this person along to success.

We as a people often love to attribute success and greatness to one person, largely because it is easy, however this is rarely the case. From presidency to the greatest generals in history, none are held up entirely on their own. This has been proven time and time again as the lives of the greatest among us are brought to light to showcase a supportive parent, coach, or a general populous that simply believed in them, willing them on to greatness.

While it is easy to believe that one person may achieve greatness, create a lasting impact, and change generations, this is never the case. Behind the scenes, there are family members, coaches, voters, soldiers, and multitudes of people propping these individuals up. A person may, on their own hold the potential for greatness, that is not to be debated. What also is left without doubt is that their greatness would certainly never come to its full fruition without the support of an entire generation behind them.

