Are you happy? How did you get to this sought after emotional state? Happiness envelops an individual when they are able to make others around them happy. By focusing on the well-being of others, an individual, in turn, will bask in the resulting happiness-glow, completing the symbiotic relationship that consists of selfish actions producing self-valued emotional positivity.

While the acquisition of materials goods is regularly touted as the key to happiness, it's clear that even those with significant sums of money and goods aren't necessarily happy. Look at the lives of individuals including Bill Gates, Elon Musk and Donald Trump. While they each have vast resources, their marriages and relationships are broken (including some with multiple divorces), family members publicly admonish their coldness, the public's opinion is sharply divided on their meaningfulness to society and they are each in a constant state of having to defend and refute negative claims thrown at them, like recipients of an angry crowd tossing rotted vegetables at a speaker on stage. If these individuals had instead spent significant time bettering others through funded programs, positive leadership and engagement of communities around them, the happiness of all would advance. Selfishness and gross materialism has infected these individuals like a nasty virus, souring their brains and having them ignore those around them which has in turn caused divisiveness, anger and publicly admonished behavior. On the surface, these individuals may be happy by focusing on themselves, but it's clear that they aren't truly happy. History repeats itself and one can analyze similar public figures from the past, all following a common trend of never truly finding a utopian state of happiness and joy since they instead focused first and foremost on themselves. 

Opponents would argue that having enough money can indeed buy you happiness, this is a false claim. Material goods may make some parts of life easier, but they don't necessarily translate into happiness. What was once a longing and sought-after item eventually just becomes another old toy in the proverbial toy chest. As an example, someone like Jeff Bezos may have unfounded amounts of money and a super-yacht, but his marriage collapsed and he has been segregated from society, like an admonished pariah that has been created through his own actions. Happiness isn't an attribute, only a man who tries to push an agenda through money. Society exists because people engage, interact and aid one another. Improvements benefit everyone, whether they are the recipients or the initiators.

It's not all about money; committing time to help others and better society does not result in a financial burden, however, the yield can be invaluable. Committing time to volunteer with a local underprivileged children's club, your local food bank or teaching others skills are all incredible philanthropic actions that will improve happiness of those impacted which will in turn shower the individual with a sense of value, worth and happiness. Bettering those around you betters yourself. 
