People achieve more success through competition rather than through cooperation.  Competition brings out the best in people whether it be in sports, in the office, or keeping against others to attain success in basic life goals.  Competition is the fuel that feeds an individual's fire and desire, and propels them to keep going on difficult tasks when adversity is present.  Cooperation is nice but often times cooperation leads to self-sacrifice and can dampen individual achievements and the highest level of performance possible.  

When you think about some of the greatest competitors over time, they used the fuel of competition to achieve the highest levels of success possible.  For example, Michael Jordan is considered by many to be the greatest basketball player of all time.  He is also considered one of the most competitive athletes of all time.  He often cites the love of competition as the reason why he achieved such a high level of success and greatness.  Jordan hated to lose and wanted to win at all costs.  He did not accept second-best from himself or his teammates.  

Similarly, Tiger Woods is considered by many to be the greatest golfer of all time.  Golf is an individual sport and involves competing against other individuals in tournament play.  Tiger loved that basic element of competing and winning.  It fueled him to win many major tournaments, and Woods would often play his best golf when the level of competition was the most intense.  It was that love for competition that enabled Tiger Woods to achieve such a high level of success and greatness.  

It could be argued that cooperation is needed at least at some basic level to achieve success in team sports.  For example, Michael Jordan could not have won multiple NBA championships by himself.  He needed teammates to win those championships as well, and it was through cooperation and a team effort that Jordan was able to win these NBA championships.  But cooperation alone did not make the Michael Jordan one of the greatest individual basketball players of all time.  It was his intense individual desire to compete and the thought of winning at all costs that really made Michael Jordan great and successful. 

In summary, competition is really what propels individuals to achieve the highest levels of success.  Cooperation is an important basic element in teamwork, but in order to achieve the highest levels of success, the individuals that comprise a team or the individual alone must relish in the role of being an intense competitor.  Competition is what brings out true greatness at the very highest levels of performance and accompishments.  

