Success is a nearly unquantifiable construct, and yet, most people can describe their definition of success and how they plan to achieve it. There is much debate regarding the most effective way to pursue success, since it can occur in a wide variety of different ways. While there are proponents that cooperation with others is the most direct route to successful results, I believe innate competition to be a far more effective method driving positive accomplishments. Competition fosters more internal motivation to succeed, and allows success-seeking individuals (rather than groups) to be acknowledged for their efforts.

Competing with others for the same goal is much more effective at driving success than cooperating with others. Humans naturally compete - constantly comparing our own qualities, skills and ideas to those of others. This is done as a metric to assess our own performance, and gives a benchmark to which to aspire if and when that performance is lacking. Falling short of others is an extremely strong motivation to improve oneself, especially when striving for the same goal.

This is in direct contrast with cooperation, which allows individuals to rely on teammates instead of working to better themselves. Cooperating with others is no doubt beneficial in some ways - it is often said that "the team is greater than the sum of its parts" (i.e., working together is more powerful than personal ability). However, relying solely on cooperation can allow unsuccessful team members to not pursue individual progress, since they can still be carried to success by those with whom they are cooperating. This, in turn, is damaging to that individual's chances of future success - as there is little internal motivation to improve.

Another reason that competition should be favored over cooperation in terms of achieving success is that nature of recognition for successes in each setting. It is intrinsic in human nature to want to be recognized for accomplishing something positive. Constantly working in cooperative settings will most likely lead to whole teams being lauded for success, which can lead to individuals within the team feeling marginalized or not appreciated for the extent of their contributions. This is no issue in competitive settings, wherein the competing individuals are vying for recognition independently.

Competition is everywhere in society, and for good reason. It provides a natural motivation for individuals to succeed, because human beings do not want to fall short of standards set by other human beings. It also leads to a more appropriate recognition of individual success compared to cooperative settings where it can be difficult to determine who achieved what. Thus, fostering competition in success-seeking situations will lead to a higher degree of success.
