Throughout time, human beings have been drawn to the thrill of illusion. Reality often serves at the behest of the truth and the truth can be a painful thing for people to confront head on. As a result, we tend to find ourselves drawn to the things that appeal to what our preferred reality is rather than the reality of the situation that seems unfavorable. This is called escapism and it's one of the primary motivators in human behavior. Our preferences for good looking people, preferential treatment and peaceful relation of our place in an often chaotic universe leads to a manner of different delusions that convince us we are ok. These delusions come in the form of images and the impressions we get from these images can harm the emotional wellbeing of ourselves and others.

Self-delusion is a problem for all people and is the number one cause of many of the most extreme emotional turns a person will experience in life. These turns come in the form of life's extreme milestone moments such as the passage of childhood, the development of romantic relationships, the effects of social survival and aging, and finally the understanding of death and the life journey of all people towards it. Often times these moments completely shake and destroy people. A grieving father of a passed child will continually ask themselves "why" as they feel the loss of their innocent relation. He may feel he played by the rules and did everything he was required to to live a morally conscious life, only for this event to completely shake the foundation of his world. A victim of a robbery may feel the same thing, as well as a child who is being bullied in school. It is often when we are forced to confront the negative chaos of the world that our delusions and preconceptions are the most confronted. 

I assert that these moments are the time in life in which a person should step back and challenge their own sense of delusion. They should conversate with other people and explain why they were led to believe what they had believed up until this point. They should self-reflect on how human beings tend to judge themselves by their intentions as opposed to their actions. The father may feel that he was in some unspoken contract with a higher being or a force of society that was allowing him to thrive. The robbery victim may feel that they had a heightened sense of awareness and were being careful only for them to realize that robberies can happen anywhere. Lastly, the bullied child may consistently feel that they did nothing wrong to draw the ire of the bully only for them to not realize that bullying is often related to the bully's own conception. Life can be full of unfortunate moments like this that people should consider "lessons"  but oftentimes they tend to attribute them to some other force such as "luck" or "God's plan". 

Opponents of this idea that we should hold our thoughts accountable over our intentions will say that it is an overly pessimistic and negative way to look at the world. They may argue that we should fight for morality and fairness and take these moments as an indication that we must push for what's right even when it causes us to suffer. There are various figures in history that are brought up such as Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr that are continually martyrized as having fought and sacrificed to make our current timeline better. I'd argue however that these figures had their own delusions that, while morally right, resulted in their suffering and status as a martyr towards current people. We should be appreciative of their sacrifice, but we should not think that the sacrifice of being violently pulled from the world is what they truly intended. Life is everything, and we can't gamble on our actions in the present being rewarded in the afterlife. I would argue against such opponents and say this itself is a delusional way of thinking. 

In conclusion, I believe society would be a much better place if people were more honest with themselves and engaged in self reflection. There is a right balance between being assured of your actions as they relate to your place in the world and being critical of when you find yourself drifting towards a thought that might be irresponsible and dangerous to yourself further down the road. I find the capacity for self reflection and self awareness to be one of the most absent things in today's world and feel strongly that it serves as evidence for why there is so much negativity and divided discourse across every form of media. 


