Modern society has a bad rap for being obsessed with materialism. I believe society should be criticized for being materialistic. It goes against our spiritual well being, it takes away from the meaning of the material itself, and it makes society look greedy.
I believe society should be criticized for being materialistic because it goes against our spiritual well being. We are a spiritual people and the act of being materialistic goes against this. It's hard to be spiritual and materialistic at the same time, because material items are grounded in reality and not spirit.  There is more to the material items we use and gather and a lot of times the spiritual meaning is not focused upon. This takes away from the spiritual self.
I believe society should be criticized for being materialistic because it takes away from the meaning of the material itself. The material or item being taken for granted usually stems from another material that is used to make the item and it is hard to appreciate that original material when it's in the form of something someone wants and doesn't need. We ignore that original material and why this item has become what it is. 
I believe society should be critisized for being materialistic because it makes society look greedy. Being obsessed with or generally consuming and gathering materialistic items makes people look greedy in general. Due to the fact that having things that don't serve a purpose is greedy in itself, we are consuming way more materials than we actually need.  Society does not think about the negative impact on the planet these items are causing, so in that fact, it's still very greedy to gather and consume materialistic things.
Society is not critisized for being materialistic, it is actually praised based on all the advertising and media we consume.  The media and advertising is fed to us constantly to be materialistic in this world. It is rampant in those platforms and faces us each day constantly. It is something that must be overcome by us as a society.
In conclusion, I believe society should be critisized for being materialistic because it destroys our spiritual selves, we forget the true meaning behind these items, and society is looking really greedy out here with how we consume and gather materialistic items. I think society should be held accountable for everything we use and gather and all the money we spend.
