Images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people because we evolved to be attracted to visual stimulus. In our society, politicians and capitalists take advantage of the natural instinct to be manipulated by visuals. Advertisements are used to persuade people into buying things they don't need. Entertainers flaunt fabricated lifestyles to show off. Politicans use public appearances and photo ops to cover up their incompetence.

For a long time, businesses have used color theory to influence consumers. Starbucks uses brown decor to keep customers in their shops and buying more coffee than they expected to. McDonalds uses red and yellow decor to put customers in a happy mood so that they will keep returning to buy unhealthy and cheap food. If McDonalds just had neutral colors, they would not be as succesful.

Celebrities use social media to show off their lavish lifestyles. People see that type of content and waste their lives trying to pursue a career that they'll never get. We can have more people in more productive fields like science and engineering but too many of them are swayed by the idea of becoming famous.

Politicians understand that their work is more about image than it is about actual sound policies. A politician with 20 logical and sensibile policies will still lose to his inferior opponent if the opponent's campaign team did a better job at presenting a certain image to voters. This is why our politics is in such a bad shape. We aren't voting for good policies, we're voting on the promises of figures that have manipulated us.

Some may argue that people should do a better job at looking past the curtain and do more research to avoid being manipulated by images and impressions. That is hard to do because humans evolved to have an unconcious attraction to images. When we were apes, we relied on visuals to survive.

As long as we live in a society with capitalism, impressions and images will always be manipulated for gain. If everything was about quality and merit, advertisements would be unnecessary. An inferior product would not be able to outsell a better product because of manipulative advertising. People would start choosing things based on quality and not what they were lead to believe.
