     Images and impressions, without substance to back them up, have too much of an effect on many people.  
     As a preliminary matter, images and impressions have the effect that our biology, our senses, our evolutionary history condition them to have.  Appearance is reality.  Thus, bright colors, unusual scents, and sounds, e.g., get our attention and are more likely to stay in our memories because that is how humans evolved.  So, in some sense it's only natural to notice the shiny trinkets that make up modern media, performative actions, catchy beats, campaign slogans, etc. 
     Accepting that premise, however, human beings need to be vigilant to devote themselves to worthy substance and not only be distracted by all the flash.  Of course, this is the harder path, but it is clearly the more worthy path.
     Thus, it's fine to enjoy the pretty or handsome singer, but people should focus on the ones who write their own songs, who actually play an instrument, who are exploring the big ideas, etc.  Beautiful actors are great, but they're even more beautiful in a quality movie with themes and ideas, with great stories and characters, maybe even characters who live in a world of gray where decisions are not always clear.
     People need to read a newspaper, not just watch TV news, which has been stated is really 22 minutes of filler to make you watch 8 minutes of ads.  Or, people need to have a serious conversation without distractions.  People need to silence their phones and disentangle themselves from social media.  Viewing someone's curated life on Facebook actually tells you nothing of subtance about that person's life.  Reading about a celebrity's life on social media just makes us all less.
     Now people will counter that they're busy and tired, and they don't want to have to work to process, let alone enjoy, the world they live in.  This is understandable.  Some of the time, have that beer and mindlessly watch TV or zone out to some tunes.  But some of the time, people should do a little heavy lifting.  Devise some quiet time, free of any distractions.  People need to fight to nurture their attention span.  Great things are borne of sustained thought and effort.
     People need to think seriously.  Read seriously.  Question if there is any substance behind that pretty surface.  Madison Avenue has exploited our impulses.  Social media and our phones are coconspirators.  But people need to unplug, step back and evaluate, think critically, and ultimately not waste themselves or civilization on the superifical.















