People experience more success when they cooperate with each other rather than compete with each other. This is clear in the workplace.

When management pits their employees against each other, the employess are just trying to one - up the others, and make sure they are the most noticed. This breeds severe anxiety and stress  and bitterness amongst the team members. They are not worried so much about the task at hand, but rather trying to stay off the radar of the other employee that has to be the star, or making sure that they are the star by belittling the other co-workers.   Others  just keep their heads down and hurry through the work to be done with the awful  behavior from the employee that is always on the attack - who doesn't realize it is not a place for one person to shine, but for all in the team to bond together and complete quality work.

In a culture of cooperation, the whole team can relax and be creative without fear of ridicule - each person does what they do best and no one is more important than the other. There is a spirit of teamwork and respect for each others ideas and strengths.

Some people say it is a cut throat world and only the strong make it, but there is much to say about holding each other up rather than pushing people down. When people feel safe, the ideas can flow and what could have been a mediocre outcome becomes something special. That is a truly strong person - one who sees the value in making others look good. 

Others say that competition brings out the best in people.  Rather, it seems like it brings out the inner beast, who cares for nothing but winning and coming out on top.  It is a kinder and gentler way to just engage in cooperation.  It does not make you look anything but desperate if you have to make sure you are always number one.  Someone with a mature mindset knows that coming together, each with their own unique viewpoint, can brainstorm together and come up with an ideal action plan to complete whatever task is in front of them.  That leaves the team invigorated and proud to be a part of the task. 

It is critical for the teams to be cohesive so that the business needs can be met. This cannot be done unless people cooperate, respect and compromise with the other team members. There is no glory in making others look bad so you look good. 
