Everyday we are surrounded by images of what society thinks we need or how we should be. Friends post about their lives on social media and conveniently leave out any moments that go against the flawless impression that they want to leave. Companies spend more money on promoting their products than they do on the development of their products. We are left to try and figure out what is actually real and what is just an illusion.

The effect of images and impressions on individuals is something that has been discussed a lot lately in regards to mental health. The effect has increased greatly since the invention of the internet and social media. I do believe that the effect is much greater than it should be and that it can be difficult to go throughout your day without being influenced by these things. I personally have decreased my interaction with social media due to the effects that images of others had on me. I saw people who seemed to have a perfect life and I compared my boring life to theirs, when I really should have been focused on myself. I also see videos of young individuals who are exposed to these things and copy the attitudes of these social figures. Some young people believe it is okay to behave in ways that harm others or themselves because they see others doing it. Adults are also affected when they see their role models misbehaving and not being punished for their actions. These individuals appear to look cool, while on the inside they are struggling and hiding their deeper issues.

Some may feel that images and impressions do not have much of an effect on people. I think these people are just very strong individuals in complete control of their thoughts or they are in denial. Even if someone is not on social media at all, you are still targeted if you consume any type of entertainment or spend time shopping. Streaming apps and almost all websites are filled with ads these days. We see things that appear to be helpful, but often lack any type of proof or reviews. Advertisements can also be used for good and lead to purchases that can better your life. Either way, the effect in general can be considered as too much because of how much what we see has to do with our decisions in life.

We can see the effect of images and impressions just by being around others online or in person. People are shaping their lives based on what they are exposed to. Some think it's cool to copy the actions of others and some blindly trust products before doing thorough research. In order to change this, I believe that more people need to take a step back and practice mindfulness. We should pay attention to the things that we do and why we do them. We should question if the people we look up to really are who they appear to be. We need to hold eachother accountable for our actions and help each other see what life really is about.
