Being someone who has had to put others needs before my own, this essay is perfect for me. When you are always putting other individuals before yourself, you are basiccally telling yourself that you are not a priority, not even in your own life. If you do not put your own happiness first at least half of the time, who honestly will. who knows what you need better thatn yourself and who knows how bad you need something to be done or finished but you. We tend to think that if we apply what we need out of life onto others, that we will moraculously get it back in return and unfortunately that is not the case.

I spent the last 4 years attending college full time, as well as having to be a caregiver for my grandmother who had Dementia for over 11 years. Having to keep her safe as well as help my mother with things she needed help with, as well as babysitting for some extra cash all while taking online classes and having to try and study with a house full of people. Family members would see me struggle to juggle everything while my personal life and health decreased rapidly. I hardly took time for myself or had any energy to keep myself up as a woman. My mom would pull me away from studying to go and clean my grandmother up when she could clearly do it herself, but because of the heart that i have, i just had to get up and do it while my mother went back to sit down in front of the computer game. I had to go through this for 4 years straight, no breaks from school, and multiple deaths in the family. If i tried to take a nap, my someone would wake me up just to tell me that our grandmother or their mother was hungry, instead of fixing her something to eat as if she was an animal that ate special food.

My grandmother passed away recently and i have been so focused on keeping her safe and taken care of that now it feels foreign to me to do something for myself. I have graduated college for over a year now but i can not seem to get my life off of the ground yet. My grandmother had 6 children altogether, 5 still living, and 15 grandchildren. My Grandmother raised me, my mom worked a lot and she went to night school for business, so she wasn't around much as a child. For me as an adult, I feel that being that my mother wasn't working anymore, she should have been able to help me more being that she took me in as a child to help her. But instead, she pushed all of the heavy responsiability onto me, especially while in college. Never allow yourself, to allow someone else to leave all of the weight on you to the point where you can not take care of the one person taking care of everyone else. I have alwasy loved to help people, but those who really need the help, not someone who is selfishly thinking of theirselves and their own time. Hold individuals accoutable for their responsibilities and take back your life.
