Take a few moments to pause and think after reading this paragraph. What are you reading this on? A screen of some sort, maybe a desktop monitor at your desk, or a phone that you carry with you for much of your life. Materials. What's surrounding you in your immediate environment? More items, and there's a good chance a lot of them in your vicinity hold personal meaning or bring to mind positive memories and experiences. For myself, the author, there are a lot of baseball collectibles which make me think of going to that specific game at the ballpark with my family, or a keychain from the time we went to Mount Rushmore, or my college GPA award that represents hard work and dedication. They're just things, but it's natural for humans to attribute greater meaning to an object than its default use or purpose. What's around you?

Since the earliest known human times, people have been building and using tools to perform the basic necessities of life such as acquisition of food and water and the building of shelter. The nature of humankind is to meet those baseline necessities and then to do more. We think, we imagine, we invent, we build, and we create more and more. As the quality of life and advancement of civilizations have expanded for tens or hundreds of thousands of years, the amount of production and capability the species has achieved is extraordinary.

One result of the vast scientific and industrial advances made as a species is that more humans than ever before have more free time than ever before, or more time spent accomplishing tasks that go beyond the basics such as putting food on the table and maintaining a roof over the head.

Materialism is a morphing factor in a changing society that is more different than ever before. It is the end product of our journey on the planet thus far, a sum of everything we've made over time. It is not an inherently good or bad concept--remember the famous saying "money is the root of all evil" often leaves out the beginning of the saying, "the love of money is the root of all evil." Much the same, the downsides of materialism might better be described as the love of materialism, or the worship of materialism, as being the place where problems arise.

Personal factors also play an important role in how a person approaches or embraces or thinks about materialism. Some communities place an emphasis on anti-materialism or minimizing materialism, but that often results in more time spent on other pursuits such as farming, building the basic tools and necessities in life, creating art, and so forth--but those are still often materials and possessions, just done through a different way of living.

Similarly, a person's hobbies, interests, and passions may revolve around something like collecting. They can spend most of their time working and spending quality time with their family yet place a lot of interest in the acquisition of material goods, or another way of living life in the modern world. There are many ways to live, and in a democratic society I believe we support others choosing their own destinies with a freedom to pursue their own interests as long as they don't infringe upon or harm others.

We all find a way to spend our time. Is there truly too much emphasis placed on materialism, or is it merely a good topic of conversation in which we can point out the pros and cons and acknowledge that a lot of those are dependent upon how a person, group, community, or culture approaches the concept on numerous levels? It is certainly a complex topic that doesn't necessarily have a correct or incorrect answer.

And that is part of the beauty of being able to think about this subject through the screen we're reading on, the keyboard being typed on, the desk it's sitting on, the store shelves the products came from, the vehicles that delivered the products to the shelves, the machines and factories that built the products, the materials that were collected to product the products, and the people along the way that agreed to a transfer of agreed upon value in order for all of it to happen.

Materialism is what we make of it. What's around you?
