     Everyone has their own ideas of happiness. The question arises, Does it come from someone's own achievements, or does it occur whenever making others happy? Let's dig a little deeper to decide where happiness truly happens. 
     Happiness is achieved whenever one focuses on the happiness of others. Humans need other human interaction to stay sane and gives them purpose. Having a purpose in life, something to look forward to creates this contentment within ourselves. Whenever we have a job we try to do our best at that job to please our coworkers or boss. In return, whenever our boss is happy we can get promotions, encouragement, and congratulations on our hard work, which in return gives us happiness. Also, within relationships we strive to make sure that our loved ones are happy and we help them achieve their goals. Also, in return we feel a sense of accomplishment and like we have a purpose to keep living for. Their achievements reflect on you.
     I worked at this warehouse, and it wasn't that clean of a job. It was very hard work, and made me very sore. Despite all of that, I worked towards pleasing my boss and coworkers by doing the best that I could at my job, even if that meant I hurt. In the end I ended up getting a raise, was offered a higher position, and even won a few trophys. My work ethic and desire to please them made them happy, and in return I benefited and was also very happy. I also developed close, respected relationships with my coworkers. They knew that I was eager to help and I would be there for them, and this brought me happiness.
     Even small children will strive to make their parents happy. This is something that isn't taught, but we are born with. Children will try their best to listen or make us smile. At this age they don't even have goals, but still continue to be happy. It is because those around them are happy. Happiness also tends to be contagious. Whatever moods you set will reflect on those that are around you. This can include: anxiety, anger, sadness, giggling, and even joking.
     Focusing on our own personal goals can achieve happiness within a person, but in order to have true ongoing happiness we need to focus on the happiness of others around us. If others are not happy with who we are, or how we do things, we will become depressed and have a feeling of being left out. 
     Happiness comes in many different forms, but coming together as humans and pleasing others is where the happiness happens and continues to happen in this cycle we call life.
