In today's world it seems everywhere you go there is an onslaught of information being presented to you. On the way to work, on the subway, in your car and in your own home. It is impossible to ignore this endless sea of ideas on a daily basis however do these images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?

To look at an example of how an image can have an affect on a person, two examples will be given from the world of advertising and one from the realm of politics. St Jude's is a charity that helps children and their families when the children in their lives are ill. They have multiple lines of advertising in order to promote their work and encourage people to donate to their cause. Many images of sick children and their struggling families are shown in order to provoke a reaction in the viewer. Would these advertisements be as effective if those ideas were not presented? Using these types of images and impressions will have a significant impact on the viewer, changing their emotions as they process these images and impressions. 

It is a similar situation with the WWF. An animal charity raising awareness for endangered animals. Many times the advertisements focus on endangered animals that would be considered "cute" in today's world. This is to generate a reaction in the viewer and encourage them to donate to the cause. Would these advertisements be as effective if animals that were less visually appealing were shown? Or perhaps animals that have "lesser" significance in the world such as insects or fish? The advertisements are designed to alter the state of the viewer to encourage them to support the cause.

Boris Johnson is the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He is well known for his unkempt hair, plump figure and "bumbling" speech that many people say makes him more approachable and relatable. However, he has just been fined for lying in Parliament about a string of social gatherings he attended when lockdown rules were in the place in the UK due to the global pandemic of Covid-19. Do his personality traits make him more forgivable in the public eye? It could be argued that the way he is protrayed in the media has a significant effect on people as he has broken several laws but still remains in Government because of the people's love for his character.

On the contrary to these points, it could be argued that in today's world although we are subjected to a vast amount of media, society has become desensatized and in fact images and impressions no longer have the effect on people they once had. Looking at cleaning products as an example, the average person can most likely name several brands of cleaning product in their house. Regardless of how many advertisements cleaning products produce, there is neither one brand that stands out amongst the others or the others would be out of business. Therefore these images and impressions do not have too much of an effect on the general public in this scenario. However, when compared to having absolutely no advertisements for products, business would not perform near as well. Subsequently, these images and impressions absolutely have an effect on the people viewing them. 

To summarize, many organizations, public figures and businesses use images and impressions to provoke emotions and opinions in people in the world today. It is not enough to just present honestly, openly and transparently. A reaction must be generated in order to provoke an action by the viewer. That might be as insignificant as buying a product or donating a dollar to chariy. Or it could be as terrifyingly significant as voting for a goverment candidate who has broken the law several times and is yet to face any consequences. Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people as evident by the events that occur in the world today. 






