The outright image or impression of someone or something presented to society often can be misleading and have far too much of an effect on the perception of people, places and things. This can lead to fraudulent beliefs as well as biased and uniformed opinions. 

I feel that what you see is not always what you get. Especially in today's society. With the use of AI, photoshop, or just the clever twisting of dialog, people tend to be very easily misled and are often disappointed once they realize that the person or thing they thought they were getting is not what they are getting at all.

Take for example advertisements on television or online. Fancy airbrushed photos and camera angles can very easily deceive a person into thinking something is bigger and better than it is. This is seen a lot in photography done by real estate professionals. Wide angle lenses, better lighting, and professional touchups make a space look cleaner, bigger and brighter than it actually is when you see it with your own eyes.  

Another example is the presentation of our current president Joe Biden. He was touted as the savior of the American people during the 2020 election. Many people voted for him because they felt he would do a great job in bringing our country out of the Covid 19 pandemic.  Since being installed in office, he has appeared as frail, confused and obviously unfit for the job he is doing. And yet the media, his advisers, and even his wife continue to parade him around as if he's actually coherent and in charge of this country. It's pretty obvious when you see the many missteps he has encountered only a year and a half into his presidency. These include being unable to follow simple instructions such as which direction to walk, his inability to make coherent statements on camera and the obvious manipulation when it comes to press conferences and his not being allowed to answer any questions that have not been prescreened.

People may argue that no one wants to see a dingy, dirty photo or see an obviously elderly and confused individual on camera so photos and situations are directed to promote what people want to see. It is indeed a helpful advertising tool when trying to sell something  But I feel that all of the behind the scenes orchestration of obvious untruths is wrong. What if you made a reservation at a hotel for an expensive vacation based on the photos presented on the internet. Once you arrived at the hotel you find out it is dirty, run down and next to a homeless encampment. None of this was aparent when viewing the photos online and now you are stuck with nowhere else to go. This is unfair and misleading. Sure, the hotel needs to make a profit but when you only show the good without disclosing the bad, it is bad form. Let people see what is really going on and let them decide for themselves what opinion to form. 

Our world would be a much better place if there was less behind the scenes beautification going on in the form of photoshop, script writing and situation control. Some people think all would be lost if people were able to form opinions and think for themselves. Human beings are unique in their ability to reason and form opinions based on information they take in. If we can't see all the actual information, we are being misled or better yet, we are being led to form opinions that aren't really our own to begin with. This is over reach and is having too much effect on people nowadays.
