I do not believe that materialism is ideal or to be encouraged, but I also believe materialism is somewhat dependent on the time in which you live.  The most basic items that we now own would have once been very extravagant to those of generations past.  I don't even necessarily mean those from 150 years ago.  I mean those from 50 years ago.  The way life and technology have changed us, we are a distinctively different society now than we were just five decades in the past.

I am 44 years old and we now have things not only available to us, but required of us, that I couldn't have imagined only 20 years ago.  I really feel the pandemic has further accelerated this process of technological innovation.  20 years ago, I didn't have any sort of cell phone, and car phones were still a fairly popular item.  Now, to order food, you often need a cell phone or, at minimum a computer.  20 years ago, all of my orders for food were made by picking up the phone, dialing a number, speaking to a person, placing the order, then going in to pick up said order, paying, and taking my food.  Now, you place the order online (I'm not even sure if phone orders are possible now in most places and paying later), go to the store, park, check in, enter your spot number, and wait for them to bring out your pre-paid meal.  Even 3 years ago, things were somewhat different and not every store had "drive up" or "curbside" so I believe the pandemic has really caused this to move forward more rapidly than ever before.  I often find myself wondering how people, especially the elderly with no technological skills, survive without a phone.  Even if you place the order on a computer, you need a way to check in upon arrival.  

So, is a phone a luxury item?  Well, certainly, 20 years ago, when I was just out of college, it was.  Any sort of mobile phone such as a car phone was considered the height of luxury living, but these days, it's nearly a requirement.  Now, do I consider a phone, personally, to be a luxury?  Yes, in a way, I still do because I do remember a life without them, so that's a way of life I have experienced, so I know a mobile phone is not a NEED.  It is technically a want.  But, at the same time, would I judge or criticize anyone for ever having one?  No, I really wouldn't, and I'd even go so far as to say I consider it a need for efficient living.  For survival, no.  For efficient living in modern society, yes.  

Now, certainly some things such as a yacht or expensive jewelry, yes...these are always a luxury and I admit that I find myself judging those who live prestigious lives and never consider those less fortunate.  I have a sort of "moral outrage" toward them.  Is that right?  Well, politically, I believe that anyone has the right to anything they work to own and our individual prosperity is up to us.  But, as a person who is religious and compassionate, I can't help but feel a bit of anger that some live pampered lives while most struggle, and some even starve.  

Should we criticize ourselves, as a society for even creating a world in which an expensive phone is nearly a necessity and we admire those who are living lavish lives in expensive homes, with many toys the likes of which most of us could never dream of owning?  Yes, I honestly think we should.  I think it's sad how everything has become so technological and the divide between the wealthy and the poor is so vastly enormous.  I feel like that is a moral failure of society.

The more things we own, the less connected we become to those around us, even those we love.  That same phone that allows us to function in this society also keeps us from talking to our families the way we should.  The phone which opens up a world of knowledge to us also seems to keep us from living in the moment and experiencing the everyday moments of life that are so precious.  And, the more we own, it seems, the less we truly appreciate what we have.  We always feel a need to have the "next big thing."  And this is not only technology, but I do believe it's the best example of it.  The same applies to jewelry, or homes, or anything else that we begin to idolize more than we revere the basics of life. 

I, for one, am honestly overwhelmed.  I'm amazed at what humans have actually accomplished, but I don't love these changes.  There's a line in a song by the Judds that really resonates.  "They call it progress, but I just don't know...."  I don't, either.  Are we progressing as a society, or regressing.  I just don't know, either.  But, I do tend to think we'd all be happier if we were criticizing the lives we live.

There is a movement toward minimalism, though, which gives me hope.  We see "tiny houses" now, and movements toward minimalistic living.  And, as a parent, I especially struggle to make this move, but as I sit here typing, I am considering going through and cleaning out some of the junk my children are accumulating because it really isn't good for them, and it definitely isn't good for me.  I see changes in my mood, and my peace of mind as a result of the clutter, and I miss the simplicity.  I had fewer toys as a child, but spent much, much more time with them.  My kids simply are overwhelmed and, as I am considering this, I truly am judging myself.  I think it's time we all became a bit more introspective about this and changed ourselves, our homes, and our lives for the better by having fewer things and more love for the important people in our world.  So, criticize away.  I think we could use some genuine honesty about what really matters, or should matter, to us, especially as we bring up the next generation.  Maybe they can do better than we did, and return us to somewhat simpler times.



