    Modern society should not be criticized for being materialisitic. Everywhere we look we are being motivated and prompted by luxurious advertisements. From the moment we start our day and watch the news with a cup of coffee preparing for the day, our brains our immediately flooded with ads and commercials of things we "need" or should buy. The entire point of human existance revolves around working and buying things to fufil our needs. Depite its poor reputation materialism serves many beneficial purposes. 
    People who criticize others for being materialistic are hypocrites whether they recognize it or not. Everyone shares the same plan and goal of going to work to earn money so that they can purchase things, most of those things being material items. Material items that are mandatory to human survival. Such as shelter and clothing. If people were to forgo spending their money on material items, they would be forgoing mandatory posessions such as homes, cars, and clothing. And frankly, there would be no motivation to go to work. What would be the point in going to work to make money if you do not have anything to spend it on? There would be none. Experiential purchases can only get you so far. While everyone enjoys a nice trip or dinner, the experience would not be that enjoyable if you did not know where you were going to be sleeping that night. And frankly who is going to want to get up for work everyday, to come home to absolutely nothing? Furthermore, not even having a home to come "home" to. Without motivation to work, employers would have an extremely difficult time trying to get people to work and get jobs done.  
     All in all materialism makes the world go round.  Materialism has gotten a bad reputation for virtually no reason, considering we are all guilty to some degree. Whether we are willing to admit that or not is a different story. Creating items and trading is something that has been around for centuries and is a huge credit to the advances we have made in society today. Without materialism, there would be no motivation to work therefore no more advances made in society. Materilism gives people motivation and drive to work. Humans need materialism like they need oxygen, without it, everything is pointless.  Modern society should not be criticized for something that benefits society and gives us a will to live. 
