Happiness is weird thing to describe because it has so many definitions to many different people.  Like the prompt says, there are so many motivation and reasons why a person is happy.  If you are asking what happiness means to me, I agree with the latter.  For me, I am at my most happiest when I can help someone achieve their goals and such.  In my opinion, people would be more happier if they focus on other people instead of their one sided personal goals.

If you would have asked me 10 years ago, I would agreed with the first part which was the personal goals reason.  I mean I understand it.  It feels satisfying to meet those goals because goals can at times feel insurmountable.  I would meeting my own personal goals would have been enough.  However, as I have gotten older, I realize it is a never ending cycle.  You need to keep finding goals to be happy, and it becomes a vicious circle.  The issue is that the focus on that singualr person.  Eventually you meet all goals and then what?  What is the purpose?   What are you going to do with your fruits that you have gotten from meeting your goals?  The thing is that meeting personal goals gives the person a temporary happiness until they find another goal to achieve.  

I started understanding the second part: where happiness of others makes me happy.  From helping people with tasks to supporting my family, I feel a lot more happier doing it.  I think I feel happier is because I have a positive effect on others.  That positivity spreads like wildfire and eventually all of humanity.  Positivity can be a strong motivator for people doing well.  The examples I can think of to support my thinking would be the rich people doing philanthropy such as helping third world countries or handing scholarships to individuals that are deserving but wouldn't have gotten the chance under their individual circumstances.  People are appreciative and do great things just because someone shared their success of achieveing their goals to someone so they can achieve their own personal goals.  It becomes a rippling and awesome effect of thinking others besides yourself

In conclusion, everyone has their own definition of happiness.  What I had written above doesn't reflect what everyone else but myself.  There are many people that are in the same situation as me and will think the same.  However, there are people that will think differently even with the same life circumstances.  Happiness is what it means to the eye of the beholder. 
