It is my observation that happiness can be gained from acting in service to others while also in balance with one's own pursuit of their goals. The exposure to a world outside oneself can illuminate and inspire not only an individual, but also groups and teams. People tend to exchange what it means to be happy and share in that. In many ways we are mirrors in the world at large.

Longer term happiness will most likely come from participating in the helping of common and shared goals of one's community and societal group, while short bursts of happiness can come from personal goals that serve to elevate a single individual toward having a more radiant presence, larger skillset to share, and while not being directly useful to others can often inspire and help others byproxy.

Belonging to a people with a common cause and goal meets the innate needs humans have toward preservation of our own species. In most cultures across the world a person feels it is an imparitive duty to be seen and noticed as a contributing party. In other words, save for an outlying mindset, we have a need to belong and so we look for the reasons. We will look for gaps in order that we can fill them and we enjoy the kudos that can come along with acts of service. This creates deep satisfaction and contentment over the span of one's life.

Contributing to the sense of other's happiness is heroic and also deeply bonding for many. A large segment of the population bonds via activities. Examples of this are group sport teams, military missions and operations, faith-based activities, group hobbies, and more. More specifically, people enjoy volunteering for a multitude of reasons. Anything outside of court-ordered volunteerism is derived from a sense of wanting to pitch in and in return a person feels good at the end of the day, whether they had given their time or money or both to people and causes that need it. When we volunteer alongside others we learn about them, makes friends and aquintances, feel seen and heard by others. We are bonded in these experiences. Bonding makes human beings happy beyond measure!

Now back to that preservation of the species thing... it is a biological need. We'd all feel better and die happier knowing that life goes on for others too, that it finds a way, and that we weren't lone wolf on an island and last man standing. That would be deeply unsettling and therefore bring angst. 

In conclusion, a solitary pursuit of only one's own happiness would metaphorically create the last man standing and lone wolf effect. It is good to pursue personal fulfillment, but largely a life with others and in service to a greater community goal is surely the path to wellness and plenty of laughter and smiling. 

Many can say things about burnout whilst in service to others and I would agree. However, that is when it is a good time for a personal reset if and when burnout happens. To take some time away and enjoy leisure and joy is key to balancing life. To live life fully absorbed in a singular bubble is isolating, even if it seems relatively happy and hedonistic. The isolation will eventually create emptiness. We are meant to share in existence and service to one another and those who come after us. 
