Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic.  In a world where we are shouldered with the burden of eliminating the waste of our predecessors, the consumption, primarily of single-use goods, should be frowned upon and should be criticized.  Additionally, production of these goods continues to contribute to greenhouse gases, consumption of limited resources, and the exploitation of cheap labor.  Finally, the distribution of these goods results in even further increased greenhouse gas emission and a higher barrier to entry for small businesses.

First, consumption of goods by our predecessors has resulted in a huge amount of waste that is impossible to fully recycle or remove.  Without infrastructure in place to process this backlog of waste, mountains of trash just continue to grow.  Goods produced in the past were done so with toxic chemicals such as bisphenol-A (BPA) and uranium, for instance in watch hands, and these toxic chemicals are now leaching into the soil.  Processing of waste from years gone by has resulted in lower birth rates in the population, contamination of soil and water, and reduced health in the general population.  Even now, microplastics are being found in animals that humans consume.  Continuing to fuel the waste stream incessantly with added consumerism just pushes the problem onto future generations.  Consider baby products; many first-time parents are unwilling to use previously-used items for their babies.  Car seats, high chairs, cribs, changing tables, all for just one child.  Potentially these items may be used once or twice, but then they are discarded after expiration or recall, just to sit in a landfill until the litany of plastics, fabrics, and metals sits and degrades over 100s of years.  Materialism in our current culture directly contributes to humanity's waste problem.

Second, production of the goods is just has harmful to the environment.  Production of consumer goods requires electricity and water.  The west continues to face a historic drought, and the United States has not shifted to a green energy grid; continued consumption of water and non-renewable resources is irresponsible when we face these historic issues.  Many products are petrochemical-derived, such as plastics, or produced from wood without replacement of trees.  In total, the production of the items that people are seeking has a high price for our future generations.  Modern society's materialism wastes resources that humanity needs to survive, and yet cannot be replaced.

Third, distribution of goods requires large investments in infrastructure, trucking and shipping fleets, and labor.  As we have seen with the COVID-19 pandemic, the United States is not equipped with the infrastructure or labor to support mass increases in consumerism. Correcting crumbling infrastructure and creating new infrastructure additionally requires petroleum-based products such as tar.  Dwindling supplies of sand for the production of glass and cement further this problem.  Trucking fleets and ships require gas and oil to move.  And as the United States is already facing a labor shortage, there are not enough employees available to operate the trucks and ships that move our materials.  Materialism further exacerbates our existing climate change and labor crises.

Consumer culture continues to be fueled by social media, the increasing presence and size of large distributors such as Amazon, and the constant onslaught of advertisements in magazines, podcasts, and other media.  Perhaps we inherited the propensity to be materialistic from our forefathers, either through hoarding tendencies developed through recessions, depressions, and hunter-gatherer culture, or perhaps it is a reflection of our current culture.  It could even be our basic psychology that fuels us to compete against each other to amass more wealth and more goods.  Ultimately it is society's responsibility to weigh the costs against the need to compete.

In conclusion, criticism of modern society's need to be materialistic is valid.  Considering the huge price of resources that goes into producing, distributing, and consuming goods, materialism could potentially be the downfall of the United States.  Consumerism continues to fuel the rich getting richer, the poor getting poorer, people feeling less than their peers.  It creates a divide that hopefully can be surpassed through reduction of our capitalist culture and reduction in our materialistic tendencies.
