Are you happy because you have everything you want? Being materialistic is not all bad; but if you cannot find happiness, unless you own a lot of stuff; then you will never truely be happy. 
  True happiness comes from being content. I person can have millions of dollars, and a whole house full of treasures; but they will always be searching for the next "thing" to obtain, to temporarily make them happy. These types of people usually buy things to try to impress others. They will rush out to buy the latest fad or gadget, trying to become a status symbol. They usually soon grow tired or bored of their purchases and seek out the next things to buy. They think that they need more and more, when in fact; they need less, to find happiness. 
   A poor person who has love in their life, could live in a tiny little shack, have very few possessions, but still be one of the happiest people on Earth. This person has learned that it's not the material things in life that matters the most; but the little things; the essentials, the state of contentment, love, and being true to oneself, is the way to happiness.
   To each their own; criticizing people for being materialistic, would be a waste of time. People seldom change their ways of thinking, until something in their lives/hearts change. Sometimes this comes with age. When you are young and carefree, the world seems to be your oyster. You act as if you're playing a game to try to obtain the most stuff before time runs out. As you get older, you realize that most of the things that you thought you needed, or wanted, is just useless junk collecting dust. When you are no longer around; someone will have to go through your junk and most likely try to sell it, or toss it out. It most likely won't mean much to others' either. 
  Live humble; only have the few things that really do make you happy. Don't think too highly of yourself, or your work. Just be a good person everyday and try to do a good job. When you are content in your life; you won't be on a materialistic search for happiness, happiness will come to you instead. You will feel it in your heart and you will understand that material things cannot buy you happiness. You won't need them; you are already there.
