          Do you believe that as time goes on, the world is spending more and more money? Do you find yourself buying things you have no need for? Is your happiness based on how many items you own or how expensive the items you own are? I believe that no one should be judged by how "materialistic" they may seem.

          The world is becoming harder to survive in every day. It seems that whenever I look at news or social media, there are often way more disheartening stories than joyful ones. Mass shootings, natural distaters, hate, and other violent acts are happening way more often. I think that if buying a lot of items or spending a lot of money makes people happy, then we shouldn't judge that. In my opinion, if someone is doing something that makes them happy and doesn't harm others then why should we make them feel bad for it? It is very difficult to live in society today and if something brings even a a tiny a bit of happieness, I say go for it.

          Most things nowadays cost money. It's very difficult not to be materialistic. Personally, I have a lot of possessions. I find that most of them hold memories or make me think of something happy. It makes it easier to be alive when you're surrounding by things that bring you joy. I am also very sentimental and I keep almost everything I receive from people as gifts. One day, those people won't be here. However, whenever I look at whatever they gifted me, I will think of them and good times we had together.

          A lot of people think materialism is a bad thing, and  I think in some instances it can be. For example, if you are dating someone based solely on the items they can give you or how much money they make. I think it's also a bad thing if you are materialistic and you judging people for NOT having as many items as you or not being able to afford a lot.

          We live in a very judgmental world. Why make people's lives harder by looking down on them for something as harmless as spending their own hard-earned money? I think there needs to be much less judgement and hate in the world and much more compassion, understanding, and love.         
