All people are entitled to their individual thoughts and emotions and, therefore, happiness. However, humans may choose to express and pursue it differently. For the general public in today's society, the moral compass is often torn between pursuing happiness for the benefit of oneself or others. I personally believe that people are likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others, whether that encompassses those within their family, friends, or close community.

One of the strongest emotions that an individual can feel is love. This can be expressed in a variety of ways, such as romantically, familial, platonically, and many others. By focusing on the happiness of those within one's close social circle, one can reach a happiness in being able to divert their attention and energy towards loved ones. For example, in American, young children enjoy celebrating Mother's Day and Father's Day by purchasing gifts, making arts and crafts, or cooking a home-made meal to express their gratitude for their parents. In this scenario, the children choose to focus on the happiness of their parents, which in turn, generally reciprocates a feeling of genuine love and personal positivity.

Another taught moral is the act of being unselfish, which is the act of showing compassion and attentiveness to another individual. In fact, there are many organizations, companies, and academia facilities that are dedicated to providing service to the underserved. In their eyes, it is right to support those who are not in the position to do so, whether it be through healthcare, food, education, clothing, and other resources. Many universities, including my own, have pre-healthcare organizations and it is very common to see undergraduates volunteer, not work, at hospitals and clinics. 

Coming from a personal experience, I volunteer at a healthcare clinic that aims to provide free medical and dental services to underserved individuals. Having been involved for a few years, I am proud to be part of a movement that strives to help patients receive their rightful access to healthcare. The patients simply deserve to have comfort and care and should not limited due to financial and language barriers. There are even some clinic days in which I have patients personally thank me for my help and show me a big smile, which indirectly makes ME happy. Although volunteering is not intended for the pursuit of my own happiness, it has actually helped me learn that I enjoy serving others and knowing that I can make a difference in another individuals life. In this way, I think that it is possible for people to be happy despite focusing on the happiness of others.
