Happiness can vary greatly between people. Some people are happy being on their own and just taking care of themselves. Others are their happiest when they are helping others to achieve their goals or prosper. I would support that people are more happy when they are helping others and focusing on their happiness. We enjoy being around others that are happy and they lift our moods up

There are few better feelings in the world than helping out others. The look on someone's face when you are able to assist them is priceless. You might not be happy while you are focusing on others but the end result is great. Most of the time when you achieve in helping someone else improve their happiness you will get that same feeling inside. I personally like to help friends and neighbors with work that they are unable to do themselves. Improving their house or yard and saving them money and seeing the end results will always put a smile on my face. We are naturally caring people so it only makes sense we want to focus on others. Donating to charity also makes me happy. I don't expect anything in return but knowing that my money will go to someone else or an organization to help others is a good feeling. It is a sacrifice I am willing to make to help others. That sacrifice makes me happy.

We also like to be able to share our happiness with others. This is best achieved when in a group and focusing on group happiness. This is why team sports are so popular. When the whole team succeeds then everyone is happy and that happiness becomes infectious.

An argument for focusing on yourself and your personal goals is that you will be happier the more you succeed. If you land a job promotion or a raise then your personal happiness will increase. I just don't think it will increase as much because you don't have anyone to share it with. You can have your increased prestige or money but if you don't have happy people to be with then it will just be an empty feeling. Focusing on yourself too much also gives of a selfish vibe. Nobody wants to be around selfish people. You want to know you can rely on someone else.

Preferences for being happy differ greatly between people. For the majority of people in this World helping outs succeed is the ultimate way to be happy. Assisting a friend or family with a project, donating to a charity and expecting nothing in return, or just helping an old lady with groceries will really put a smile on your face. If we all started helping others more instead of being so selfish then I think the World would be a better and happier place. 
