Cooperation is by far  better than any intense competition in both ones personal or professional life. When a person chooses to use this yardstick in his or her dealings it would make for a more congenial outcome. Yes there may be times when some modicum of competion is called for yet when this very same competition turns intense does this become an issue. 
Competions in all areas of our lives should not be the defining factor , for when we do cooperate our relationships both at home and in the workplace becomes more pleasant , there is no strife here . In any competition there is always just one winner , someone who is in effect better at a given task. Sometimes this very same rule in the workplace is good for it would motivate an employee to do better at his job. But  competitions  simply do not have any place at home. 
Every four years we have the Olympics that showcases competition at play at the highest level . Here is an excellent example of a helathy competition . When this competition engenders feeling of hostility we should be firm and draw the line . By far it is always way more healthier to cooperate with  others , for when doing so we make for better outcomes both in our personal and professional lives. This need for cooperation has never been more important than when the pandemic  struck all of us.  When one country developed the vaccines the same was made available to other countries too because we realize that if we have to combat a common enemy we would have to join hands to vanquish the same. To combat  the effects of climate change on our planet it is imperative we come together , all countries lending a hand to effect changes. Cooperation in all areas of our lives should and will always be the common denominator in our dealings with each other. We do have our differences but his should not overshadow our efforts to be together. Cooperation is the only meter that should guide us. Healthy competition is fine but coopeartion is the only way to go forward. 
