The images and impressions and their effect on people are concerning. I believe that the effects that images and impressions make on our society are concerning because I believe they are brain washing people. We as humans associate images with words or feelings most of the time. Which can cause people to associate adds with things not even related to the information being given or the actual product being sold. 

I feel that sometimes these images can cause people to slurge on an item for the wrong reason. For example, someone will go to the store and buy a greeting card from a certian place becasuse they believe it to be "green" for the enviroment....when actually the product is not made from recycled materieal. When the pictures are resonating trees in the forest live and happy...this doesn't mean that they are respectful of the enviroment, instead they just use the trees as a happy image for the consumer.

All in all I believe that images cause impressions on consumers to believe a certain way about a company. It isn't always what it appears to truly be. We need to be more inclusive on how we advertise. Keeping in mind how people are easily impressed by imaging.

Like I said before promoting some that is bright on the outside and lame and discolorful  on the inside can become qite a disappointment when we finally reveal the contents. 

The presidentual runners, for instance, always want to exagerate what it is they can do for this contry. It's quite sad really. We as the people listen intently to their words and hold a lot of faith in what they are saying to be true. When in fact when they finally are elected they are a real disapointment to the contry. 

In todays social media there are so many filters and possibilities to be someone you are not. Catfishing has become quite and epidemic. It's very scary out there. People going and meeting people they have no idea who they really are. Putting trust in these poeple that they are telling the truth....most are not. People are meeting monsters, where some are meeting the person of their dreams. It's a toss up really. Although some people are true risk takers and are willing to go to the extent to find that soul mate or best friend. Or even the best business partner. 

Lets say youre buying a house and see an add for this amazing mountian side home, valued at 1 million and a half dollars....the photos are beautiful and youre drawn into going to make a bid....now mind you, you're out of the states and are doin this based on discrptions from the realtor and photographs...you make your bid and end up getting the house. The day comes and you are finally getting to move into your newly bought home you have paid over a million dollars for and you get there only to find that the house is not actually what the pictures showed and the discription was given. You find that most of the rooms are not carpeted, the hardwood is weathered, the porches are weathered and rotting. There is termite damage to most of the home. The foundation is faulty, it shifts so much that the walls are not sitting properly with the floor and so on...It is a true disappointment because you were basing your impressions on what you seen and what you were told....so so disappointing. I believe as a consumer we must be willing to go the extra mile, investigate, research, and dive into finding out what a product or whatever is really like, what the company is really involved in, what a person is really about before we subject ourselves to a real nightmare. It is up to use to truly knowhow the results will play out. How our expectations will be met. We are the determening factor. Like I said before. Research, study, locate information, do what needs to be done in order for you not to be disappointed. 

Making yourself look or appear to be someone you are not is huge. People don't like a liar, people don't like someone to misinform them about who you are truly as a person. If we can't trust what you say, we will never keep in your corner. I have to be able to trust someone to be in their lives. If I can't trust you I will push you away further and further until I have nothiong more to do with you. 

If you are looking for a job and want someone to bring you in for an interview you must be able to dish out what youre advertising. That or be really good at pretending or really have knowlege behind what you're being hired for. It's the only way to make it in this world...being honest or really proving yourself. A fake faccade isn't needed.
