     Happiness, a term used to describe an emotion that is purely subjective. Whether one feels happiness or not is typically subjective, but in the situation of who would gain more happiness, a person that focuses on the happiness of others will objectively find more oppurtunites to feel joy. To put simply, focusing on others happiness allows one to find external sources of excitment and fullfilment, and can be overall more beneficial in your personal goals making one happier.
     In the case of external sources of excitement, this comes in the form of friendship. As helping others gain happiness causes the person helping to gain a friend. This expansion of one's social circle, opens up more opportunities for more joyful and leisurely interactions. After all, after a hard day's work or studying, most people would like to sit down with people they like and care about to relax and de-stress. Focusing on others' happiness allows these moments of relaxation to happen, unlike a person who only focuses on their personal goals. Giving a person people to lean on in times of need and struggle. Of course this does not mean that every person one meets will reciprocate their care for that person. Although, this also does not mean that every person will ignore them. Meaning in the many people they help, at the very least, one of them will help that person.
     Speaking of help, that is exactly what one will get when it comes to having these new friends thanks to helping other people with their happiness. That help can in turn help fulfill one's personal goals, whatever those goals may be. A person that wants to be more fit could make a friend that will keep them in check and ensure that they stick to a consistent diet and daily exercise, while a person with a goal of becoming rich can ask advice of these friends, or assistance depending on what avenue they wish to take to attain this money. If the goal is to gain this money through gaining a proper education and getting a well paying job, then those friends can act as free tutors. If the goal is to gain this money quick and fast, then that person will need connections, which is exactly what those friends will act as. Connections that will eventually help them in achieving their goal.
     That is why focusing on the happiness of others will help people attain more chances and possibilites for their own personal joy. After all, those people will eventually become their friends, which in turn become sources of the emotion that is happiness as well as a source of help to alleviate situations that would bring down their mood.
