I believe that true happiness comes from benefiting others or benefiting society in a way that noticeably improves it. Lasting happiness comes from continuing to benefit others throughout one's life. The opposite is also true - only benefiting one's self may be pleasurable or fulfilling in the short term, but can leave one feeling empty and unhappy over the long term.

Happiness is an ephemeral concept for many. It can be used to describe many different things. For instance, material comfort is thought to be a form of happiness, but evidence shows that past a certain middle-class income level, happiness gains are minimal. This means that a super rich person isn't much happier than someone who is upper middle class. Relationship satisfaction is another form of happiness, but some people can be happy without relationships, so relationship happiness isn't definitive to overall happiness. In order to figure out what happiness is, one must remove definitions that can have exceptions and keep the "core" of what it means.

Material comfort is important to establishing a baseline minimum level of happiness, as well as quality relationships with other people. But what keeps it all together is caring for others and caring for society. When you benefit others, you are happy, which is why charity is so common. If charity where merely obligatory, and didn't produce rewards for people, it would be far smaller in scope than it is. The same could be said for raising children, helping friends out, and doing works that help others for free, without any quid pro quo expectation back. When these efforts have lasting positive impacts, it creates a sense of satisfaction that outlasts everything else.

Personal goals are important, and success is a key to satisfaction in life. A person who is not successful in their endeavours is not going to be very happy. But succeeding at personal goals isn't good enough in itself. The metaphor of the dog catching the car comes to mind. Once you achieve a goal, your mind thinks, "what's next?" There is always a next. What you achieved starts to fade away, and the gain in happiness dwindles. Humans are social animals, and doing things for yourself only gets you so far. Your body is configured to withhold some of its rewards unless you "press all of the buttons" by helping others in a pro-social way.

In conclusion, personal goals and the happiness of others are both important contributors to personal happiness. However, the happiness of others is more important in the long run to maintaining lasting happiness. This is because activities that improve the well-being of others are more likely to create lasting, noticeable effects that continue to self-sustain.
