I say that people gain more success by competion the cooperation when looking to maximize success in the world. This is because competion fuels drive in individuals to give them the want to go further than what cooperation will give them. Though it is limited by what a single person can do, most times, it has them maximize their accomplishment poteintal. It is more advantagous in the long run compared to focusing on cooperation which will lead many to let the group lazily move forward if there is no ccompetitive drive in the group to move to be the best they can be. Furthermore being competitive is not antagonisitc and will use cooperation in use of furthering progress for further competion. That is not to say their won't also be a drive to eliminate cometition from bad actors within an competitive environment. 

Competion, by its nature, causes people to search for more strength and abilities for the want of being better than their others. Someone will see what another person can do and attempt to top their accomplishment. This drive creates an engine the we can use to rapidly move forward as a whole whenever any one person gains success. This is due to multiple people attempting to out do one another with knowlege they will share with the world because being the best leads people to wanting to share what they have made. 
A created value that they care about, well as others because cometition creates a drive to do so. 

Cooperation can lead to a task being easier, due to multiple bodies for work, but they are only as competent as the most inventive member. Without a drive to make something greater that what they could build cooperators would only go for making what is already known. So what cooperation has as an advantage over competion is the abilit to remake what is already known. Which does not grant more success but continues what has already been created. However, that only happens if the members cooperating are competent enough to do so, as a disadvantage of a null of competition is that cooperators are more likley to be lazy. Meaning they won't put in the required work for a task and the end product will be more likley to fail than one where everyone is looking at being the best they can be. This due to the cooperators competion, that wouldn't happen in its absance, that would help them keep each other working the best they can work. 

The negatives to competition would come when people take things to too personal of a level. When this happens some will resort to sabatoging work of others to keep themselves ahead or stealing work that is not theirs to move forward. Sometimes when competition gets to heated people will be driven to ignore the work of those they have no hope of catching up with or more drastic measures to the body of others, and sometimes to themselves. It's competitions greatest curse.

However, when looking at competition as a whole, its benifet is greater than the risk it presents as most of the same dangers are also avaialbe to cooperation since jealousy is not limited to dealing with competition. Also the advances that are made when challanging each other will always be greater the mearly continually working as a group with a drive to be greater. 
