We are blessed in the United States. We are one of the richest countries in  the world but always wanting more and more of everything. People are always chasing after the dream of being rich or having the latest of every gadget. We are in competition to have more than our neighbors. People living in third world countries in squalor and filth would not understand the riches we possess and the goal to get more when all they want is clean water, food, and the necessities of life to be happy. We should strive for the simple things in life.

Yes, we want more of whatever we desire and work very hard to achieve these riches. People are known to work themselves into an early grave trying to "reach the brass ring" in order to live a life of luxury. Families are torn apart due to a partner being a work-aholic and staying at the job to get overtime pay. They are seldom at home with the family and children grow up without ever seeing a parent around. There is no guidance. A person's credit is ruined by overspending on a credit card when there are not enough resources to pay out of pocket. Materialism causes worry when we cannot pay for our "stuff".

What can we do to overcome this greed of never having enough. The main goal is to be happy with what you have. It is not necessary to have every "new" item on the market or the latest in every gadget. Get out of the rat race to always be number one.  We need to choose family over material things and always put them first.  Time is something we can never reclaim and there should be no regret in being with people we love. We should strive for a balanced life/work ratio to keep our life in balance.

Life is too short to live with regrets and wondering what might have been if only we chose the right course in life to pursue. Materialism is not bad because everyone desires more money and possessions but it is only when we put it at the top of the list that it becomes toxic. Work and strive for the luxury vacation or the new car but don't let the important things in life slip away while you are doing it. How many people do you know who want their headstone to read "Here lies a person who had everything life had to offer but no love, friends, or experiences to remember"? 
