It is objectively clear that society has become more materialistic over time. At present, much of our lives' value and importance seems to revolve around the money and possessions that we are able to obtain. While this obsession has grown to an obnoxious degree, it's something that has been a measure of success for hundreds of years and has become ingrained into our society over time. While I do think some criticism is warrented for the level of materialism modern day society has come value, I do not think we, as individuals, are fully to blame for it.

As far back as we can look in society's history, society has always put value and higher status on those who own many things. The earliest Kings and Queens owned land and clothing and jewels while the lesser peasants had very little to their name. The more wealth you surrounded yourself with, the more power and status you held. That truth has carried on over the years and still to this day is a marker of success. The gap between the wealthy and the poor is still large. People are still judged by the things they own or can afford. But I do not think it's fair or realistic to ask an entire society that was built on these principles to change or be fully held accountable for being the way it is now.

A huge factor, I believe, is the constant and ever increasing bombardment of advertisements and the sneaky ways capitalism has ingrained itself into our day to day lives. From childhood to adulthood, we are constantly being told that possessing a cetain number or quality or brand of something will make us more attractive, respected and liked. Media is brainwashing us to believe we can only be happy and satisfied if we are able to aquire certain things in our lifetime. These thoughts are reinforced by the judgement of our peers who are under the same pressures.

Our society also has a huge problem with consumerism and extravagance. It's so easy to spend money or instantly purchase things online (while being targeted by ads all day pushing us to buy these things) whether or not we have the budget to. Every day, more storage units are being built all over the country because people don't even have the space for all the stuff they've aquired and have put so much value and worth on these material possessions that they are unable to throw them out. I also think there is a much larger conversation to be had about how terrible our society is when it comes to mental health and the obvious link between certain mental illnesses or depression and the drive to aquire material things to try and feel better.

Overall, I think modern society is merely a product of many, many years of materialism. I think it has gotten worse as technology has advanced and capitalism has grown. We are currently constantly consuming various media that is telling us we need to aquire certain possessions and that our worth hinges on it has inevitably led to where we are now. I do think society should be criticized for letting it get to this point and for not spending more time reflecting on what is really important in life, but I do not think we can be held accountable with so much constantly working against us and reinforcing materialism.
