Appearances can be deceiving. From media and entertainment, to advertisement, products and people, what you see is not always what you get.  It is so easy to be persuaded by what we think we are seeing without stopping to think about what is behind the things we see every day.  It is so very important for 
us to remember that the images we see on a day to day basis aren't always rooted in reality and can cause harm if we allow them to effect us the wrong way.

Commercials and advertisements can be so tricky to navigate these days.  It is important to realize that these are not always accurate.  Commercials use tricks of camera and exaggerate products because their goal is to sell a product. Weight loss products are a major problem for me personally.  It can be so damaging to promise someone better health when the product is not capable of doing so.   It is easy to believe that a product can be life changing when the images tell you that they can.  They make promises that we want to believe.  We end up disappointed to find out that the images and ideas and the impressions they give end up being not that at all.

We see this also with celebrities and politicians.  The impressions we get is that these people are important, more important than others.  It is easy to trust these types of people and the persona that they portray.  Ultimately, we forget that these are real people who make mistakes.  If we are not careful and invest too much of ourselves into the ideas of glamour and talent, we end up sorely disappointed and may feel tricked or even deeply hurt.  

While some celebrities and politicians are truely good and are able to use their image and 'importance' to do good things, we have to remember that this cannot happen without the rest of us.  It is up to the rest of us to decide who we support and to avoid supporting those that use their powerful images to cause damage to society.  By continuing to support those that use their power of image for good, ultimately we are deciding what effect those impressionable people are allowed to have.  As with false advertisement, we need to speak out so that everyone has a chance to see both sides of a product.  

In the end, each person will decide how they process people, products and designs and the power they have over us.  By choosing the truely good and honest, we gain power.  By spreading the word about ideas and products that are good, we can weed out the effect of the bad. We gain the power to help rise to the top those whose images and impressions will have the greatest good effect on society.
