If there's one thing humanity can probably agree on, it is that happiness comes from a myriad of different experiences, thoughts, activities, and lifestyles. However, the question arises over whether a person is more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or choose instead to give attention to the happiness and betterment of others. I submit that the pursuit of the happiness of others comes secondary or subsequent to the happiness of oneself and one's own goals due to the nature of the two and how one flows into the other naturally.

To explain, let us first examine the nature of happiness that stems from a focus on self goals. An example of this would be pursuing a skill in a hobby like woodworking. A person could take great joy from learning each aspect of the craft and how to apply it to their creations, and in this way, it is a goal on a continuum with many rewarding moments along the way. 

Now, let us examine the type of happiness that stems from helping others. A fantastic example of this would be helping a friend through a bad breakup. Without the support of someone caring, the friend is bound for a difficult and painful journey, but with even one friend by their side, the burden is at least somewhat eased, and they have both an outlet for venting their pain and the ready distraction of someone who is willing to spend time with them on a whim. 

Both of the aforementioned examples are common scenarios that people pursue for a sense of happiness or purpose. However, the first is the type more likely to result in happiness of the subject in question. Pursuit of one's goals gives a sense of direction in life, of purpose, of hope, and when achievements are met, of accomplishment. While the same can be true of the latter, pursuing the happiness of others comes with a lot of factors that must be taken into account that greatly impact the likelihood the person will feel happy. First, one cannot control, or in a more positive spin, guarantee, the happiness of others. So while one may try to push for and ensure the happiness of a loved one or group of people, there is no way to guarantee it will work at all. This leads to the second issue, which is that in the event of failure to make the other party or parties happy, one will likely experience feelings of disappointment, either in themselves or by feeling that others are disappointed in them for failing. Third, if one pursues the happiness of others above their own, one may find that they slowly begin to neglect themselves as a result of shift in priority, which leads to stretching their (physical and emotional) resources thin, a weakened sense of self worth, confidence, and life direction. This in turn can lead to a fourth and much more destructive outcome, which is the increased reliance on making others happy to feed one's sense of self worth and happiness, and because their happiness is not guaranteed, this path is very unstable and indeed self-destructive. It is for this reason that pursuing one's personal goals is at its core more likely to ensure the happiness of an individual and is a more solid, safe source of happiness in life. Furthermore, if one pursues their own aspirations and goals as a priority, they will build up a steady source of happiness, direction, conficence, and self worth from within, all important resources from which they can then draw upon to pursue secondary goals of helping others. 

Happiness is certainly a personal journey, but it is important to maintain one's pursuit of personal goals first because it is more likely to build a healthy base of inner strength and happiness than prioritizing pursuing the happiness of others first. Foremost maintaining one's own goals and direction to push for happiness and a strong sense of self is the foundation needed before focusing on others. Without this healthy foundation, the house crumbles, and the rest was all for naught.

