       Industrialization brought a focus on material possessions.  People began to define themselves with respect to what they own, rather than more intrinsic qualities such as principles, values and beliefs.   This may have implications for the quality of one's life.
       I believe that a society that bases the quality of one's life on material possessions should be criticized because there may be no clear theoretical or empirical basis to equate happiness or a sense of meaning in one's life with the quantity of possessions.
       The fact that many people strive to earn a higher income and buy many possessions does not mean that these are their primary sources of happiness and meaning.  Even if they are happy and perceived their lives are meaningful, it does not mean that the quantity of possessions causes happiness or perceived meaning in life.  Correlation does not suggest that causation is present.  If people are happy and perceive their lives as meaningful, it could be that they are able to form quality social relationships or have developed hobbies that foster meaning and happiness through self-expression.
        The focus of a society on materialism may have negative effects on society by fostering selfishness and perceived justification for inequality.   People may save their money and buy personal possession to a greater extent than donating money to charities that make a difference in the lives of many people.  Many people may suffer as a result.  Also, people may judge their self-esteem on status, and status may be determined by material wealth.  This may lead to a false belief that one is superior to others.  This could result in less empathy and caring for others.  Many people may experience adversity as a result.
      I believe that there is no strong empirical basis to equate wealth and happiness after a certain basic level of income is achieved.  However, making a difference by donating money to others may foster self-esteem if self-esteem is based on helping others.  Thus, a shift in a focus on materialism to caring about others may increase happiness due to having a viable and stable source of self-esteem (helping others).
     There are many problems in society, and one could infer that socialization that fosters empathy and altruism may foster a better society.  These problems may be reduced by greater caring about others.  This greater caring may result from less of an emphasis on materialism.
     In conclusion, I cannot think of a cogent argument for why materialism shoud be fostered in a society.  For many thousands of years, humans probably lived a good life without many possessions, and this may have involved happiness meaning.  Happiness and meaning can be derived from feelings that have nothing to do with material possessions.  There is a much simpler and more achievable form of happiness and meaning that involves helping others.  This would mean that everyone can experience happiness and meaning if this is the primary source of self-esteem.
