Happinness is subjective.  We are frequently told to strive for happinness in our daily life, but what does that mean and how do we achieve it?  Are we supposed to strive for happiness by focusing on the happiness of others and the improvement of humanity, potentially at our own expense?  This arguably can make someone miserable.  Or are we supposed to focus on achieving our own happiness by pursuing our personal goals and dreams, potentially at the expense of others?  Potentially making others miserable?  This essay will argue that it is a measured approach, that by blending our purusuit of our personal goals with empathy for humanity and others that one can achieve happiness.  Its is not a black and white approach to life, but a blending of both philosphies that will lead to true happiness.  

Focusing solely on ones personal goals, may lead to short-term benefits, but in the long-run could lead to unhappinesses.  Perhaps a salient example is my family's desire to purchase a car.  Owning a car will allow us the freedom to quickly escape from the city for hikes and camping trips.  We finally have enough money saved to purchase a car that runs solely on gasoline. However, this will contribute to climate change, ultimately haveing a negative impact humanity - increased flooding and extreme weather events do not contribute to happiness.  Instead, we will continue to save more money, allowing us to purchase an electric vehicle which is better for the environment.  This will allow us to achieve our personal goals, but by doing so in a smart manner which also thinks of others.  

Simultaneously, always putting others first would have a negative impact on personal happiness.  One often thinks of humanitarian workers who work under difficult conditions to help others. They often put the happiness of others above their own.  This brings immense stress, can have a negative impact on mental health and happinesses, and often lead to burnout.  Being able to engage in self-care and step back to engage in "me time" or self-care is vital to achieving happiness.  These workers can't be happy if they don't take time to think about about themselves and focus on personal dreams.

There are extremes at both ends of the arguments.  Focusing on personal goals and dreams can bring big reqards, but it is important to think about the consequences and impact on others.  What impact will my dreams have on others, both negative and postive?  At the opposite end of the spectrum, it is lofty and admirable to believe that you can ahcieve happiness by focusing on others or the improvement of humanity, but this often comes at a great expense to the individual.  There are limits to what we can control with regards to others and the world around us.  Happiness is achieved by not focusing on the extremes, but by meeting in the middle. This is achieved by thinking about our personal goals and dreams, engaging in self-care when necccessary, and thinking about the impact that our actions may have on others.  
