Using a phone or camera to take a picture is a common and almost daily occurrence around the world today. How an individual presents themselves is vital in order to obtain a good picture or "selfie" where one can reflect and look back upon in the future. Additionally, taking pictures and posting them online through various social medias is a common trend to show-off what they are eating, where they are traveling, what they are doing, etc. Some may be doing this for the popularity or "clout," some may be doing this to make their exes or friends jealous, and some people may be doing this to promote products or affiliations to brands, political parties, and more. What these actions all have in common is how they present a "false" image of reality to their viewers and how much of an impact these images can have on people who follow them on social media.

For instance, corporations have a unique way of presenting their products and themselves in advertisements. Ads created by corporations are meant to be concise and short however, their purpose for that is to draw the attention of their viewers and make a good first impression to them regarding their products or services that they can provide. For example, advertisements about cereals usually involve a zoomed in look at the details of the cereal, followed by splashes of milk and people smiling while eating it. This creates a false reality, intended to persue the viewers that their cereal is delicious and could make people feel good about themselves while consuming it. Corporations are not the only entities that create a false image of reality. Entertainers, politicians, and public figures all do similar things by promoting themselves as unique, able to solve certain problems, or showing off how rich they are, when in reality they are usually the opposite or cannot do the things that they said they would do.

People like to create a false reality because reality is often harsh, cruel, and unforgiving. Reality is grim and is hard to make a positive image of when the average person is suffering all the time. In addition, unless it is entertaining, people often do not want to watch or view what reality truly is when they are browsing social media. Furthermore, corporations usually avoid speaking the truth about their products and services in ads because it would generate less profits for them if they do so. Making ads that are happy, colorful, and exciting helps deter any negative images or thoughts of reality. Creating a false image of oneself is easier and hides the truth so that people can use that to their advantage--whether it makes them rich or makes them stand out to certain groups of the population. 

Images and the first impresssions that they have on people are now more important than ever before, thanks to technological advancements and giant social media platforms that can promote images that are easily be accessible and shared throughout the world. Movies about fantasy dramas like Marvel's superheroes are one of the most popular things across the globe. What fantasy movies have in common with a false reality is that they are used to help us cope with our everyday lives in a more harsh and grim world.
