Competition and cooperation are both key elements in any success story. In a capitalistic society, the importance of competition is often stressed as a way to get ahead for any individual, with many pwanting to be the ultimate winner in their field, whether that means power, money, or recognition. While the title of "winner" does indicate merit and prestige in many cases, this is often in a vaccuum and can sometimes be a weakened accomplishment if not done through collaboration and cooperation with others. Ultimately, in order to achieve real success, cooperation is crucial, as no success is truly achieved alone.

By society's definitions, the most successful people hold high positions in their careers, and are known for their individual career accomplishments, talent, and often wealth. This could be the CEO of a Fortune 500 company, a talented and popular musician, a politician with high status, famous actor, and more. All of those who achieve great success had to start somewhere, and didn't reach this high status overnight. The CEO built his or her company with the help of others, and woud be nowhere without their employees as the backbone of the company. They may have started at another company and built out the right connections to work their way up, or they may have been entreupreneurial and innovative from the start, but none of this was done without advisement, mentorship, investment, and collaboration with others. The famous musician or actor would not reach the pinnacle of their success without a team of agents, publicists, and other industry connections to get them in front of the general public, not to mention the adoration of their fan base. For every successful person working extremely hard to get where they are today, there are hundreds, if not thousands of people they need to work with or rely upon to get them there. Yes, all of these people have talent and worked hard to reach this potential. They may have been very cutthroat in climbing their way to the top, and absolutely beat out others striving for the same positions. This is not to discount that talent or hard work, but to say it would not be possible without others who not only believed in them, but supported and worked with them to make these dreams a reality. Those who only rely on individual accomplishments and personal egos generally are their own biggest blocker in reaching their full potential.

Success can be many things. It can be wealth, power, status, or achieving the life and happiness that person always wanted. It cannot truly be reached without others,however, which is what makes cooperation so incredibly important. Someone can have all the talent, privilege and monetary resources in the world, but if they are not willing to work with others effectively, they will more often than not fail.
