        How many times have you been in your vehicle driving or riding down an interstate and seen a billboard on the side of the road.  Sometimes they might say in big bright lettere "Made you Look" - "Call XXX to have your business on this sign" , Or another billboard that says "You cant change stupid people, but you can vote them out", or even sometimes we may see multiple billboards that are listed in sequential order as you get close to the target.  As a former television advertising account executive  I learned many things about media and tricky ways or sneaky tacktic that are used to manipulate the masses of people.  
        Often times you are being lied to or manipulated.  As a society we are taught to trust those in authority.  It is a proven fact and has been studied over and over again that people believe what they see and read in print far more than anything anyone tells them because they believe journalists are somewhat of authority figures.  Teenagers believe what they see and hear from teachers but dont believe what their parents have to say. Adults believe what they see and hear on the 6:00 news even though half of what they show has been taken from stock video footage or been edited to create a narrative. As intellegent as we are as people - Why are we so trusting?  Why havent we learned to verify then trust? Why do we take what a stranger says and believe it but dismiss what our loved ones may tell us?  It is a great mystery.  
        Another form of manipulation comes in the new world of social media.  With these new forms of  "Fact Checkers"  How many of you notice that every time something political is posted on social media, especially if it doesnt fit the narrative that the media wants you to believe it is automatically fact checked.  Well, just a thought.  Who is checkingk the fact checkers?  Who created them to determine what is fact and what is fiction.  Why are they given any authority to flag a certain post or opinion as false.  When it comes to election integrity in this country why are some elections considered the most secure in the countries history and yet others are rigged and tainted.  Well I guess thats up to the fact checkers to decide. Or is it? 
        I think that many of the answers come in the form of convenience. We want others to tell us the truth, tell us what to believe, and do the work for us.  It is just so much easier, and we are just too busy or too tired.  We want to be able to ask siri or google for any and all answers and we believe them.  We believe a computer an AI bot.  How have we sunk so low.  Think about all of the generations before us who actually had to learn things and do research on their own. I wonder what they would think of how we process our information today.  
        As  I close, I want you to think about those interstate billboards for a while. When i was in television advertising sales and a client was considering using billboards (road signs- as I liked to call them) I would tell them that the best usage for them is either to give directions (such as gas station three miles ahead at exit 12) or introduce a new product like a new fruity sports drink, but other than that they are not going to influence many consumers. I now think they play more important roll. I believe that those billboards engrain an image or an emotion into those who pass along the same stretch of road every day.  It is subtle but it is there.  We are being manipulated by big business, big money, big politicians, big Pharma every single day.  I urge caution!
