The topic of this essay will be the effects images and impressions have on people. I believe images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people. I also think people know this and exploit this fact to take advantage of it. Celebrities, advertisers and even just average people trying to make a good first impression exploit this fact fairly often. I think many people do it without even being aware they are doing it.

I believe celebrities and advertisers do this to help make money. They know if they can create the right impression then people will be more likely to buy their product. For example, celebrities may often advertise that they are doing something for charity. Generally this serves multiple purposes with one of the purposes being to improve the celebrity's image. If people see a celebrity donating to charity then they will think that individual is a good person and be more likely to have a favorable opinion of them and buy products they endorse or are featured in.

Advertisers also take advantage of impressions and people's perceptions. Advertising is no longer as simple as letting people know a product exists. Now the advertisement is often accompanied by flashing colors, rapidly changing images and music designed to get the customer's attention and make them feel a certain way. Advertising companies know that if they can get customers to associate their product with something through advertising then they are likely to beleive that is a real attribute of the company. For example, quick service oil change companies will often advertise how fast they are. If a customer is repeatedly shown ads about how fast the company is they will begin to associate the company with being fast even if they've never used the product before. This makes it more likely the customer will use the product next time they are in need of a quick oil change.

In the case of celebrities mentioned above, some people may say public charitable giving from celebrities is just a case of them trying to raise awareness of important issues. If that were the case then there are likely better ways they could get the issue out there. For example, paying for advertisements that only focus on bringing awareness to the issue, rather than spending valuable promotion time and budget also heavily featuring the celebrity in the advertisement. They also could lobby politicions behind the scenes and push for them to take their issue seriously. However, neither of these options also has the effect of improving the celebrity's image very much. This is why it doesn't always happen.

In the case of advertisers, some may say they are simply trying to make their advertisement more interesting so people aren't bored. This may be partially true, but ultimately companies only care about making money. For a company to make an advertisement without trying to maximize its return on investment would be bad business practice in a capatilist society. Because of this reason, they know they need to do everything they can to grab the customers attention and exploit human psychology to maximize the return. This means it's important to create a good impression with the custome and to get them to associate the product with a concept that will lead to more sales regardless of the actual state of the product.

With all this taken into account, I think it's easy to see that people are too heavily affected by images and impressions. In today's busy world, people often don't have time to really look at most things in depth. We have far too much going on to examine if the local quick service oil change is really as fast as they claim or if the latest it girl celebrity really cares a lot about the charity she is promoting. It's easier to just take things at face value without spending valuable time thinking about it. People know this and exploit this fact for their own gain.
