I've been depressed for as long as I can remember. Third grade was probably the first time anyone else noticed it. I began dreading going to school, and feeling miserable a lot of the time - I wasn't the same happy kid that I had been a year before. I talked to my mom about it, and I was coping, but I wasn't really okay. It wasn't until I found therapy for myself as a young adult that I realized that my mood was not normal, and I finally received help. I learned how to make myself happy.

I had years of experience being unhappy before I got to that point, but now I know that happiness is something that you have to put effort into. Though it is presumed to be the baseline of human emotions, we are not entitled to happiness, and unless we search for it we may never find it. We may never  know what we are missing.

Happiness can be found through self-interrogation. Periodically, I ask myself: "Am I happy?" Sometimes I realize that I am, in that moment, content, but more often that isn't the case, and I subsequently assess why I am unhappy -- which aspect of life am I dissatisfied with? And what can I do about it?

Of course, there is no formula that will work for everyone, no one-size-fits-all secret that will work for anyone that tries it. But by knowing ones self, paying attention to your own needs and caring for ones self, it becomes achievable. Throughout time, people have facilitated this type of reflection through many diverse means: through meditation, prayer, acts of service, long baths, or conversations with friends. Though these activites may seem dispirate, what they have in common is what they give to the person who is performing them. 

Many people will argue that happiness is only found in services to others. It is true that helping others may contribute to happiness for some, but a person who only gives, and never takes a moment to reflect on their own well-being will find that their well runs empty. By turning that giving nature around, and treating themselves the way they treat others, they may find that they are able to give more to others. 

Happiness is unique for each individual, and it isn't something we should expect to experience all of the time. Happiness is a gift that we can choose give to ourselves through introspection. 





