The world is a collection of perceptions.  Actually, it's the sum total of the perceptions of every person, and since every person is not the same, those perceptions are different for everyone and thus there is no single point of view. 

We see this particularly in politics.  Nothing can create a violent argument faster among friends than a political debate, since politicians thrive on division and difference. A successful politician at the highest level is one who can create a sense of being part of an elite - or a misunderstood, downtrodden minority - among their followers.  This sense of 'us versus them' is very strong, and is constantly reinforced by the speeches and campaign ads of the candidate.  The candidate speaks to their supporters in a warm, confiding way, reinforcing the sense of togetherness and specialness in the group, while the endless stream of campaign ads on TV and online show jarring images and makes unflattering comparisons to the opposition. 

This process has a strong reality-distortion effect on the faithful.  Consider the COVID-19 pandemic.  Some followers of former president Trump still believe the virus either a) doesn't exist, b) is greatly exaggerated or c) a liberal conspiracy, even though they have concrete examples in front of them of the virus' deadly abilities.  Members of their own families have died, some quite painfully and all quite unnecessarily, because they wouldn't get a simple vaccination.  In future years, historians will write of this time with disbelief and amazement.

Another current example is the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The Russians face a few unforeseen problems in their propaganda campaign that is attempting to justify the invasion. First is the historical distrust of Russia by the countries of the West, so any messages issued by the Russian government will automatically be taken with a very large grain of salt. Second is the rapid and widespread dissemination of pro-Ukraine images and messages around the world through the Internet, far in advance of any similar work by Russia. Ukraine has won the information war and this will have a major impact on the war on the ground, and the aftermath.  

So it really is true that the medium is the message, and that first impressions linger the longest. The difficulty most people have is cutting through the blizzard of images and impressions that cover us daily to cut through to the truth.  Many people don't care enough, few have the time it takes to truly understand and react to the things they hear and see in a truthful way. I don't really see a way around this; as I said at the top of this piece, we all have different perceptions, and must make our way through the world in the best way we can. The truth can be found, but is it the same truth for each one of us?
