     We live in the age of social media giants like facebook, snapchat, instagram, and twitter. Everywhere you look online someone has an opinion or a photo and is trying to make a statement. Whether it's a company, celebrity, or influencer they all want the same thing on these platforms - followers. Followers so they can influence society around them. We have developed a culture of always being glued to technology and social media and it has caused a disconnect to the real world. Today many young teens or even adults have increased anxiety, depression, and low self esteem because they can't live up to the perfection they constantly see around them. Models, actors, and businessman all leave lasting impressions on the youth via the internet and have had negative effects on todays culture.
     Many young women today are surrounded by impossible standards that are just unobtainable. Even the most beautiful of models are photoshopped in any kind of ad or picture they are in. The Kardashians are at the forefront of media and constantly seen by young women as a "standard". But even then they have all had plastic surgery so nothing is real about their looks. The ads and images online always suggest a woman should be skinny in order to be beautiful. The same images create feelings of inadequacy for young men as well. Every ad for cologne or Polo features a man with a chiseled jawline, a perfect beard, and perfect abs. Genetics are a very real a thing and unfortunately not everyone can grow a beard or have a perfect six pack no matter the effort put it to get it.
     You may think you can escape the forced images of a perfect woman or man if you just turn off your phone or never go on the internet again but you'd be wrong. Television shows and ads on TV show the exact same images to create a stressfull mindset of never being good enough. Even if you turn off your phone, or TV, or get off the internet, you will always see similar images while shopping, or on billboards. The digital age we live in cannot be escaped. Assignments for school must be done with internet access where you will undoubtedly see such imaging. If you want even a little bit of a social life then kids today need their social media - it's become apart of them and their culutre.
     In todays culture the internet, social media, and ads have all created lasting impressions that aren't beneficial to positive thinking. These things all effect people way more than they have any right to. Why should a young woman not feel pretty because she doesn't have a face lift? Why should a young man not feel confident enough to ask out a girl because he can't grow a beard? With the increase in technology, young people today are surrounded by so many different stimulants it can absoluelty overwhelm them. This current culture will prove to be detrimental to self esteem, self respect, and thought development in the years to come.   
