Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic due to how much junk people accumulate. Americans really don't understand how easy we have it compared to a lot of other countries. We are quite privledged. We consume as fast as we make money. We caused shortages of essential items during the COVID pandemic because we are greedy people. Amazon saw spikes in sales during the COVID quarantine due to people having to stay at home and were buying whatever they could just because they were bored.

Another example of why we should be criticized about our consumption is how much pollution we cause due to our consumption. Our planet is slowly dying and is slowly baking itself and getting hotter and hotter and we aren't doing anything about it besides constantly just buying up everything that we possibly can and in the meantime creating all this junk accumulating in the landfills. The ocean now has a pile of garbage floating constantly that is literally an island of garbage. That is not something to be proud of. That is something that needs to be addressed urgently.

We really need to slow down our consumption of plastics and seriously need to start looking for other alternatives. We can't move forward living our lives destroying this planet because if we continue living this way, there won't be a planet Earth anymore.

A lot of new neighborhoods have been sprouting around all across the country as well due to our consumption problem. We are tearing down perfectly great land and tearing down woods and huge trees to make room for bigger homes and bigger neighborhoods. So many people want a brand new house instead of trying to find an older house that is already developed that may need some maintenance or TLC. We are so conditioned as a people to just throw out the old and buy new. It's not a great way to live. The planet has been letting us know that for a long time and we just are too busy being greedy and not listening.

In conclusion, modern society really should be criticized for being materialistic. It is honestly something that we should be ashamed of. Unfortunately, some people are conditioned to feel like they need "things" and "ownership" of something to feel happy because they weren't loved enough or aren't being shown enough love in their life. They follow that behavior in time when that new item that was once shiny and brand new becomes suddenly dull to them and they trash it. They weren't taught the value of owning something and actually taking care of it and maintaining it and cherishing it. They were taught that everything can be replaced. Unfortunately, not everything really can be replaced. Just ask our planet.
