

                In the current world that we are living in, we are bombarded by images every second. From Social Media to commercials to the 24 hour news stations, we are constantly being shown what to buy and being influenced what to think. Instagram and Tiktok Influencers post daily videos about the types of products they enjoy. Are they really using them? Commercials in between our favorite tv shows are blasting the latest weightloss product or service. Do they actually work? Are the people in the commercials really using them?

                   Honestly, in my opinion it depends. When it comes to Social Media influencers, it can be a toss up. In some cases you have someone who genuinely used Weightwatchers to lose weight. If the have a large number of followers, weightwatchers might reach out to them to be an embassador. They will then promote the program. This is an example of actual positive and genuine advertising. You will see this with Beachbody products as well. Someone who ordered the workout dvds, used them and worked hard to lose weight, will be used in an infomercial for the product. Where it can get confusing, is when you see an adtertisement for something like an Ab exerciser that claims the vibrating belt is working the Ab muscles. Here's the thing, it IS working them. There is a BIG BUTT (no pun intended), however. These are made for people who are in the hospital and can't do certain exercises. The people they show in the commercials using them already HAVE six pack abs from CALORIE deficits and WORKING OUT. They have very little body fat from eating less and lifting weights, so their abs are visible. These belts can help them work their abs and you'll be able to see some results. The average 25-30lb overweight person (or more) is NOT going to see results from these belts. They have too much bodyfat and need to lose weight with diet and exercise first. So as you can see, it's a bit misleading. It works, but not how you think.

                   On the other hand, often times scammy weightloss MLM/Pyramid Scheme companies will reach out to people with large followings and ask them to lie and promote their gummies and shakes and promise to pay them for the promotion. So you have to REALLY take a look at what these people are saying, what they looked like BEFORE taking the product and the words they use to promote it. For example, maybe of us have Facebook friends who get involved with these companies to make money from home. These companies have them use tactics such as using the words "fast weightloss" "no exercise" "no calorie counting" in their posts to garner attention. Who hasn't seen the post "My friend is looking for TEN more people who want to lose 20-35lbs FAST by simply chewing YUMMY gummies everyday that specifically target stomach fat". This is a lie. Nothing specifically targets where your body fat is. Literally only a calorie deficit reduces bodyfat, and it reduces where it feels like it. That's science. However, everyone wants a quick fix and these companies target that. All of these companies have their sellers copy and paste the same posts hoping to suck you in and they will NOT give much information about the product. If you ask a specific question, they will say "pm me for details" because they know if they publicly state the company or what the product is, you will google it. Then you will know it doesn't work as well as they claim it does. These MLM companies also sadly try and make our friends guilt us into buying these products by acting like we'd be buying from a small business when really, that's not the case at all. Our friends are being scammed into thinking by harassing us they are going to make big bucks from home, work at the beach, work from anywhere and their husbands can quit their jobs, etc. It's very sad. 

                  There have been many cases of scam advertisers stealing before and after pictures of normal people as well as celebrities and claiming they used their diet plan or product to look the way that they do. This is all over Facebook. It's like reality tv. By now, we know that most of it's scripted and staged and not what it appears to be. However, as people who are wanting to lose weight, or feel pretty, or more healthy, sometimes we just don't think clearly. We want things to happen NOW. So we fall for these advetisements over and over again. Being bombarded by bikini bodies, healthy looking radiant glowing skin, etc can make your self esteem plummet if you don't look that way. We need to get smarter. Advertisers treat us like we are stupid. These days tv shows are so much shorter with the amount of commercials they shove in our faces. Even the streaming networks have commercials and if you want to advoid them you have to pay a higher monthly fee to avoid having to view them.

                  In conclision, take a look at an advertisement for what it really is. Does it feel genuine? Does it seem realistic? Are they using the words "Fast", "no exercise", "just by using THIS product alone"? If it seems to good to be true, it is. No one is losing weight by eating gummies alone. Even people who are using Ozempic and other drugs used to treat Diabetes prescribed by a dr are in a calorie deficit if they are losing weight. Even people eating lower carb are in a calorie deficit. It's not a magic product and it doesn't need to cost money. I know that it can be hard to not be taking in by the alluring thought of a goal happening fast, but often times when something happens fast, it goes away as quickly as it came, because it wasn't the real deal. 


