Modern society and materialism seem to go hand in hand in the current era. With the rise of consumerism and globalization its easy for an individual to get out of hand and worry more about how much they own or have instead of how enjoyable their lives are. In this crazy world it is getting eaiser to mass produce items with cheap labor and little to no concern with its impact on the enviornment. Let alone the massive amount of money created by exploiting the working class. This isnt to say that modern materialism is all that bad, but the cons seem to heavily outweigh the pros. So who are we to blame or critize for the rise of materialism?

The world is vast and full of amazing differing cultures, beautiful ethnicities and jammed full of individuals looking to live their best lives. However with this comes a very easily growing problem with large quanties of materials being needed to provide for this growing population. This is where one of the biggest gripes with materialism comes in, labor practices. Many companies around the world tout being eco-friendly and sane, however in countries where labor laws are loose, it always seems to be those same companies with large factories. This isn't to say the company is the only one at fault, the government of these locations is equally as corrupt in allowing laws like this to pass. One of the biggest groups to blame is modern society itself, an aspect often overlooked, whether on accident, or on purpose. By purchasing from companies that have horrid labor practices the general populace is enabling these companies to continue making massive profits in order to provide these cheap objects for the society as a whole while abusing and mistreating a majority of its working employees. While not directly responsible, society enabling these individuals due to their materialistic goals is a major problem, ethically and enviornmentally. By providing these companies with funds, society is allowing them to expand, practice unsafe dumping practices, and even contaminate local populations. 

With being such a materialistic society in the 21st century, we as a people have alot to dedicate to fixing these issues. While being materialstic is the society norm and people may feel ostracized for not wanting to base their happiness on money and items, it does stand to reason that it is an effective way for a majority of people to feel that they are worth it and able to have a happy life. Money is an absolute need for the modern world so i dont harbor any ill will to those who yearn for it or want to actually be able to afford materials in order to live. It becomes a problem when the wealth distribution caused by materialism is so harsh causing a few to be massively rich and the majority to struggle day to day because of our amterialstic society. These companies are exploiting the needs of the many in order to stack their coffers. So it stands to reason that materialism is needed in the modern era, but not for exactly the right reasons. 

So in the end should society be critized for being materialistic? Yes and no. Its an aspect of the human race that is destroying the enviornment and causing irrepairable harm to third world countries, while enabling companies to continue to gain more and more funds to further these aspects. However, because of how society works in the 21st century, needing money is almost as urgent as needing water, you can not survive without it in many countries across the globe. So some people are not materialistic out of greed but rather out of need. The world runs on money and possessions and we as a people should make a large effort to disrupt the society norm and work together and not exploit the needs of others in order to further our materalism.
