It has long been debated whether competition or cooperation provides more success to an individual. In the following paragraphs I will convice you that cooperation will provide more success in the long run. Competition often happens when people work by themselves, this limits one's resources to achieve success. When someone works together and cooperates with others the amount of resources available to all increases.

When people cooperate with others they often share their ideas in brainstorming sessions and can really increase the likelihood that a good idea or solution is thought of. I cannot think of a single situation where being by yourself can yield more creative, successful solutions. Even if one person is less intelligent than the other, they will undoubtedly provide perspective that could not be thought of by the first individual. Just by combining everyone's background experience will increase the collective idea or knowledge base.

I would argue that even in individual athletic competitions cooperation yields greater success. If you were to train with your greatest competition and share success tips, it would increase the performance of both competitors. Especially compared to those that would train on their own. You are combining the knowledge base of two or more people to figure out how to get better at something. This is just a much more efficient way to solve problems or get better at things. Success is really just the result of solving a problem and solving that problem is much easier with more people involved.

I think that too much cooperation can cause problems though. If there are too many opposing ideas then nothing will be solved or agreed upon, it is almost like it works against itself. Depending on the task cooperation has to be limited to a few people.

In the end, cooperation is integral in the success of something. Even someone that has appeared to be successful by pure competition likely cooperated with someone down the road. Whether it was a coach, boss, friend, etc. Someone influenced their decision and cooperated with them even if they were not aware of it. I think that the only true way to achieve success is to cooperate with others.
