"Don't sell the steak, sell the sizzle" is a famous advertising strategy. In other words, it is less important for advertisers to convey factual information about a product than it is to arouse in a buyer a feeling or emotion. In this essay, I will discuss the extent to which people are affected by images and impressions.

It is my position that people are indeed overly influenced by images and impressions--in other words, flash over substance. Think how often we hear political speeches that contain pronouncements such as, "We will make America great again" or "I'm for peace and jobs." Such statements may arouse emotions in audiences, but they contain no substantive policy or strategical information. Consider the rise of "influencers," people who become famous and influential without doing much of anything specific. Althought acting is a visual medium, many actors succeed based on their looks rather than their talent. Additionally, kids, including my daughter, often want to buy bright-colored toys simply because the toys are colorful, not because they want that specific toy.

Some might argue that influence and rhetoric can be used in many ways. Facts and words are one way to persuade, but so too are visual mediums and other types of communication. They may argue that the mode of communication is irrelevant as long as persuasion is achieved. However, it does seem that those who use flash over substance to influence others often want to promote the most empty or dubious ideas and products. This mode of influencing may also suggest that the seller may want to hide certain factual information, such as price, nutritional value, or safety concerns, behind the "sizzle."

In the end, we can look to history to conclude whether the most important influencers persuaded audiences with substance or sizzle. Some of the worst calamities arose because people were persuaded by charisma over policy. Though cultures evolve and change, as do modes of communication, those who don't know their history may be destined to repeat it. 
