Happiness is the goal of most members of society.  This essay will explore what it takes to be happy.

I believe that true happiness comes from serving others.  Some people believe that true happiness comes from focusing on their own happiness, but I believe that that kind of self serving behavior leads to insulation from others.  Some of the happiest people I have known are those who put their own needs behind those of society at large.  They see a need and do their best to solve it.  They see pain and try their best to assuage it.  In doing so, they experience a sense of accomplishment, a sense of knowing that they made a difference, and this leads to a feeling that they matter in the world.

I have had friends and relatives who were self-centered.  One example is my nephew.  He has had many relationships with women, but none of them ever lasted.  It never takes him long to find a significant fault in any woman he dates, and as soon as he finds that fault, he moves on.  He focuses on what makes him happy.  He doesn't spend a lot of time trying to make the woman he dates feel like she really matters.  He encourages her to cook for him, run errands for him, and be there to listen to him.  People are disposable, if they don't take him closer to his personal goals.  He misses out on the joy of fully engaging.

My nephew argues that he is happy, though.  He has made goals and has reached them.  He has received raises and degrees and awards.  But he has a very narrow circle of friends who think like he does.  They are all focused on themselves and can rarely be counted on to put their own needs aside for his needs.  So if he needs a ride when his car is broken down or if he needs someone to pick up a prescription when he is sick, he generally has to call a relative.  His friends are busy with their own activities and are likely to say that they are sorry, but they have other plans.  Those are not the kinds of friends that would make me happy.

On the other hand, my sister is one of the happiest people I know.  She volunteers at her church, chats with people in the grocery store, and is always available to lend a hand.  People flock to her, and she is a wonderful listener.  I often find her humming as she goes about her day.  She feels that her life is wonderful, and she likes spreading her happiness to others.  The more she does for others, the happier she seems to be.  There are probably ten people who would bring her a meal if she were sick!

In conclusion, based on what I have seen, people who put the happiness of others first are the happiest people.  People who put their own happiness first are selfish and rarely achieve the happiness that they seek.  There is always something missing, and they generally can't figure out what it is.  Perhaps if they studied the habits of happy people, they would figure it out. And perhaps if they followed the strategies of happy people, they would achieve true happiness for themselves.
