Materialism is something everyone in society experiences in one way or another. It has been a major part of the human culture. Throughout history, humans from as early as the caveman to modern times have obtained objects of considered value/wealth, and this is unlikely to change. We view people who aquire more things or make more money to aquire more things as people that are more successful. People work hard to obtain money to buy more or do more. 
Given these points, one could argue that materialism is a genuinely inherent characteristic of mankind. It forces individuals to work harder and/or smarter to aquire items that they deem desirable. Whether these acquired items are promoting happiness is subjective to the individual. But regardless, without materialism, people would work less, if at all. Society would be wholly dependent upon handouts. Governments would not be able to function and would eventually collapse. Humanity will, given enough time, be wiped off of the face of the Earth. Is this an extreme view? I do not believe so. Advancements are slowing. The drive to work hard is disappearing in many cultures. The drive to work hard and succeed is no longer being instilled to the younger generations, to their detriment. Many people are becoming less materialistic. And this has real consequences. Look to the past, where communism/socialism were tried in other countries. Many have collapsed or have become police states that limit social freedom, social expression, etc. It is not sustainable, and many people may either act like mindless drones, or they willingly give up their rights, or they are born into the society without knowning such rights existed in the first place. 
In more free societies, some groups believe that everyone should be given things to make everyone equal. To tax the wealthy to give to the less fortunate. But are the less fortunate always deserving of handouts? Some yes. Many no. Laziness happens. Without drive to promote competition between individuals for goals, what is the force that allows for the advancement of humanity? 
So, the question is, should modern society be criticized for humanity's materialism? My answer is strongly and simply no, it should not. Society is materialism. Successful societies at least. They go hand in hand. Survival of the fittest is placed in a different level, where hardworking individuals can advance their and/or their family positions by working hard, striving to get a better life. A better house. Live in a better neighborhood. Get a better car. Get a better job. Of course, some at the top of the income brackets may not know about hard work for advancement, and just use materialism for lavish personal purchases. But, these purchases do not only benefit them. They benefit the stores that sell them. And the producers, the shipping companies, the local governments taxing at both the production and purchase locations. Everyone on the totem pole from lowest to highest benefits from materialism. 
Some may argue against materialism being a good thing. They wish to make society equal in all ways they can. But, if that were to happen, where would the money come from? The rich would no longer be rich. The poor would no longer be poor. Not everything is produced by robots. So how would society still function? It wouldn't. There would be no reason for people to work, but then who is farming the food? Who is making the decisions for important aspects of business and government? Would there be uncontrolled population growth when people don't have much to do any longer? These are all questions that need to seriously be considered when one throws out statements that society will be better if everyone and everything is equal. It would become an extremely boring society that will snuff itself out. 
In conclusion, humanity depends upon materialism for past and for continued advancement. The individual that attempts to push themselves to gain more money, more self-worth, a better life, succeeds from that hard work. While the individual who does not wish to work hard and obtain those things of greatness, will stagnate and not accomplish much. The contribution of many individuals trying hard to advance themselves is what makes modern society function and brings new ideas and processes/brings the evolution of humankind and society as a result. 
