Everywhere we look, we're met with messages to spend more, buy more, want more. Advertisements are ubiquitous and, increasingly, targeted to us as individuals by algorithms. Through these ads, modern society stimulates desires within us, by telling us that we'll be thinner, richer, or happier if we only have more things. Sometimes, the messages prey on our fears and insecurities: without this product, we'll fall behind our peers, or be seen as "less than" by others, in some way deficient. Rather than make us richer, these messages and the accompanying push to grab all that we can, make us poorer. This overarching materialism robs us of appreciating experiences over objects and of being satisfied with what we already have. It puts us in a constant state of stress and worry that whatever we already have, is never enough. It damages our psyches and our environments.

For example, rather than spend a weekend of free time focusing on experiences that we could enjoy for free, such as playing in a park or reading a book borrowed from a library, we face constant encouragement to shop, to buy the next big thing, to keep up with the neighbors and "influencers" on social media. We can become so distracted by these messages and the process of shopping and buying that we forget to enjoy the simple pleasures in our lives such as a leisurely walk and a good homecooked meal shared with friends.

Consider a meal replacement shake that features before and after photos of a person who is unsmiling and appears miserable in the "before" photo, but appears delighted in the "after" photo. This ad not too subtlely implies that if you resemble the "before", then you are a problem that needs to be fixed. It preys on the insecurities of the target audience. It can create worry where before, there was none. There is also no guarantee that the product will give the desired result. As the disclaimer says, "results not typical." The person who buys this product is unlikely to be enriched by their purchase.

Our constant parade of unnecessary plastic products that aren't biodegradable and just end up in landfills degrades our environment, and affects the health of our species and other species who inhabit our world. 

Now, some will argue that materialism is good. That it's harmless or even fun. That even many seemingly silly or superfluous products add value. That materialism creates jobs and stimulates economic growth.

There may be some truth in these arguments. Some people may enjoy shopping for and buying things that they don't really need, and they may not personally be negatively affected by messages in advertising. But for every person who's not negatively impacted, there's another who is made to feel inferior or "less than" if they don't buy, buy, buy. 

Silly and superfluous products mass-produced by mega-corporations may seem harmless enough at first glance, or even to add some fleeting value to our lives, but what happens to our environment when they end up in landfills by the billions? The long-term consequences to our planet are real and shouldn't be ignored. 

We created our society, and our economy. Therefore, we can change it. We can shape it into something that is more healthful for us, and our environment. It needn't continue to function in the ways that it has in the past, and currently does. We need to consider reshaping our society and economy in a way where it can still function without excess materialism that harms both our health and our environment.
