Competion or cooperation? Both in reality have a place but which is more significant is a matter of the situation and the type if person with who the tasks are given or assigned. Some rivaly is fine, in fun, in the spririt of team work, but many take it to far to the point where is doenst matter who gets hurt in the long run, thats where comition becomes obsession. 

Most people think they have to be the best or they are not successful,. They do not see that just trying and giving it all the effort they could even if hey fail it makes them successful because they tried. Some people are so obsessed with being the best, they work endlessely trying to reach a goal that may or may not ever happen, that they fail to see or enjoy the the smaller accomplishments they made along the way. I never understood the concept trying to be the best, over all others, instead of just being your best no matter what or who else at thier level. It in my opinion is self defeating, people are so concerned about winning they never enjoy the journey to get  there.


Sometimes cooperation needs to happen in order to acomplish a goal or task. Sometimes it is just the feeling of working with others get to the goal. Celebrating each others accomplisments and knowing that together it was done for ont just self but for all.  Even working together as a team, when you are in a competion with others, as in a foot ball game can be competitive, but if you do not cooperate as a team you won't win the game. If your team does not work well together you won't be able to defeat the other team. If one person on your team decides that they are only going to worry about their goals, the team has very liitle chance of being successful and one person on a team can not win alone.

Copperating with other in my opinion offers more chances for success than going it alone and not looking out for each other. This is the same as countries working together, people working together and not defining goals on thier terms alone.  Cooperation could save the world. It is ok to be the best YOU can be, but no one is better than another person, skills and talents are interchangable talents. You could be a master programmer today, but as a new programming design comes out, you are no longer the master, but the student. Same with any other talent. We all need to just do the best we can for ourselves, our families, our friends , and all the people we share this world with. 
