Happiness is not something that is singular in life. It comes from several different aspects not just money or food. It can be done through self satification of a project, through work status and different successes in life. Nothing to do with quanitity or viewpoint. 

A succesfull person is never satified and nobdoy is ever satified we all strive to achive goals but may never attain the goals we set fourth for ourselves. Once I decided on working towards being an Automotive master so I took two years of automotive technology. After ten years I wore my body out so I decided to help people. So I took four years of Psychology at Ashford University. Now I can help people.

I have been rich and very poor growing up and mostly just being satified has made me happy way more than material posessions. Having a good relationship is very important. Taking care of your overall general health and wellness is some of the most important things you can do to feel successful in life. Making just enough money to pay the bills and truly being yourself is what really matters in my opinion of course. 

This is because everyone is different and has different wants and needs in life. After fighting with my stomach and mental disability. This had made me realie what happiness truly is and can be. It never lasts forever and constantly needs to be worked on. I hope everyone gets a chance to work on this through life be some kind of success and be happy with their abilities. 

More to the story can truly be found within yourself and others will always try to get ontop by letting you down in life. Do not let this discourge you in your path to happiness and more importantly stay smart and vigilant. I sure hope people stop feeling angry and depressed in life and stop ruining peoples lives to get ahead. This would make America truly a better place to live. I feel this can not be understated. 

I believe in police and justice system reform. These are areas that have major issues and need fixing. People just do not understand until it has happend to them. I think the economy can do better we just are dealing with high inflation for 2022 and this cycle will pass. I hope things get better and not worse. They can go either way but people are in denial about it. I feel people can stop denying what is right and make life overall better for everyone and this converts to making life better for yourselves. I believe that is true happiness at it's core. I hope someone finds this useful and can maybe learn something from it.
