Throughout history, humans have found many methods of accomplishing their goals. Some groups acted upon the belief that brute force is the best way to acheive change. Others have placed all of their energy into peaceful pursuits. One of the major disagreements among various people and societies is whether it is best to engage in competition or cooperations. While it may seem that competition encourages every person to do more than they would otherwise, and therefore more will be accomplished overall, this is not generally the case. The most effective method is working as a group and giving each team member an opportunity to contribute in the manner that suits him.
War is an example of competition in the extreme. While one side generally emerges victorious at the end of each war, all parties experience losses in the process. People, animals, land, and homes can be destroyed in every battle. In some cases, those in power may consider it "worth it," while in other cases, everyone feels regret. Many disagreements which result in war could be instead solved by multiple parties working together. Competition results in damages property and relationships, whereas cooperation is satisfying and peaceful.
There are claims that people must compete in order to reach their potential. In fact, this may be true for some individuals-specifically those that come out on top of the competition. In general, humankind as a group acheives more by sharing ideas and efforts. The logic behind this is very simple. When two parties work against each other, as is the case in a competetive environment, the net gain is far less than that of two parties working cooperatively. Two competetors cancel out each other's accomplishments, where teammates build on each other's success.
A variety of skills is beneficial to most types of work. There is no person who has every ability, and therefore no person who can accomplish everything on his own. There is a saying, "The work is not yours to complete, but you're not free to refrain from working." With many participants cooperating without any major disagreements, significant acheivements can be made faster and more easily.
Not every problem can be solved using the same method. There are some situations in which competition is appropriate. However, to produce lasting positive change in the world, the more people who work together, the better. An individual may only be able to accomplish something small. With everyone's skills and knowledge on the same "team" every victory is a success for mankind.
