What we think we see becomes far more important than what really is.  Although it's unfortunate, especially in this day and age, images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.  The fundamental problem with this is that, if people move forward based on incorrect or backward information, they will achieve poor results in their life (to say the least) and others will be needlessly hurt.  This not only negatively impacts individuals' lives as mentioned; it also weakens communities and countries as a whole.

Take, for example, our politicians.  They attempt to create one narrative while the truth is radically different.  This creates needless in-fighting and "wrong-minded" thinking (for lack of a better term) which results in a surreal world...one not even based on reality.  In addition to being absurd, this most certainly isn't progress.  

The best example right now would be the metoo "movement".  It wound up being (primarily) a scam that anyone who was really looking could have spotted from a mile away.  While it was painted as a righteous cause, it was (in reality) an effort from radical and evil feminists to have the ability to destroy men's lives with their lies.  The ultimate goal being to shift power and control the population.  It goes right back to Adam and Eve.  We only recently saw an example with Amber Heard lying through her teeth in court.  At the time the false claims were made, however, Johnny Depp was labeled a "wife beater".  How sad that people's lives can be destroyed with misinformation along the way.  That's what happens when people embrace lies.

This is the world we are living in.  The internet has only served to exacerbate the problem.  Some might disagree and say that it's best to embrace the "perception is reality" mindset as the best way to succeed and move forward in life it to "go with the flow" and be like water in that regard.  However, as mentioned, that only leads to deranged results and is too focused on individual results and not the welfare of the entire group.  This type of win/lose scenario thinking isn't sustainable and winds up hurting people.  It really shouldn't be advocated for.

In conclusion, we all need to take a step back and look deeper.  We need to think before we act or speak and learn not to take things at face value.  We should try to learn the truth before leaping to rash judgments.  Anything other means that you are the problem.  We simply cannot allow this to continue.  It was always supposed to be innocent until proven guilty and not the other way around.  Further, the internet should be neither judge nor jury.  

At the moment, we are a mostly lost society due, in large part, to what is commonly called "wokeism".  In my view, being "work" (while painted as being enlightened) really means embracing illogical, counterproductive, and ridiculous beliefs.  That's not being enlightened at all.  Going back to the metoo scam, the underlying mantra was "believe all women".  Can you think of anything more absurd?  It's a scientific fact that everyone lies multiple times per day so how can such a ridiculous assertion be made?  Are we also supposed to agree that grass is purple?  Cavemen wouldn't even have thought something so silly before fire was discovered.

Indeed, it's madness that we have reached a point where we have forgotten the wisdom of cenuries (indeed, millenia) in some insane pursuit of enlightenment.  It all comes down to coveting images and perceptions above and beyond the truth.  It's nearly destroyed our country and, without a massive mindset shift, it inevitably will.  Let us pray that darkness shall not overtake the light.  As, to those who are truly looking, it's really a matter of good versus evil...the truth versus lies.  Is it too late?
