Most world religions say that the way to salvation is to perfect yourself. They assert that the better that you become then the better rewards you will get either in this earthly life or in heaven after you die. For example in Mormonism if you perfect yourself you will even become the God of your own world, in Islam the better person you are the more likely you are to be rewarded in the afterlife, the goal of Budisim is to perfect yourself, and the goal of Judism is to follow the law as closely as you can. The Christian difference is that salvation and the happiness that comes from salvation comes from outside of us and comes entierly as a gift from God. We should not be so focused on our own happiness but the happiness of others and our own happiness will take care of itslef. 

In Martin Luther's writings he points out that we cannot be saved by our own good works but rather we are saved by looking outside of us to the gifts that Christ delivers to us through baptistim, comunion, and the words of the Bible. At the same time he points out that while God doesn't need our good works our neighbor still does and he stresses the imporantance of our vocations and how each one of us serves God by doing the best possible job that they can. Doing the best that we can for our neighbors and for God while it will not save us will absolutly make for a happier person and for those around you to be happier as well. 

While it is apparent that we can't save ourselves good works motivated by The Holy spirit are pleasing to all parties that are involved. If we always set our view outside of ourselves to our neighbors and to God than we will be much more likely to be happy. It is clear that God's design for our happiness is that it should stem from our relationships with those around us and the sharing in the gifts that God has give to us to enjoy. Also it is important to remember that the real promies of happiness comes in heaven not in this temporary world where we are engulfed in sin. In conclusion we must always look to what is Extra Nos or ourside of us for God's gifts to us. 



