     There is an old an old addage that is often used in competitions: "Survival of the fittest". It implys on the strong survive and thrive while the weaker fall behind and are forgotten. In today's world, particularly in competitive fields such as technology, medical breakthroughs and academic or scholarly entrance exams, a lot of emphasis is placed on being the best, beating out the competition and achieving the highest rating. However, I do not believe that is truly the best way of a society to function and advance. Rather cooperation will help us all achieve better and higher than a cut-throat environment.
      Case in point, the COVID-19 pandemic and the world race to the vaccine. The medical minds of the world developed a DNA bank to share and warn each other of emerging variants that have been encountered, allowing the medical community to learn and monitor what is happening even if they are on the other side of the planet. As vaccines became available, the "recipe" was given to other nations and vaccines were donated to poor countries. That is not say there was no competition. It was clear, that there is a lot of money to be made by the country who developed the fastest and strongest vaccine. They even dubbed it the "operation warp speed" here in the United States. No doubt, "survival of the fittest" was at the core of this race. Beat the competion, get the contracts, make the largest amount of money. Who knows, it very well may have impacted how quickly the vaccine was developed. However, how much faster, safer and sooner would it have been if these countries worked together instead of competing? Regardless of how someone feels about the vaccine or the pandemic, cooperation would have undoubtly made the process safer, faster and arguebaly  more trustworthly. 
       On an academic level, how many students have been rejected from schools because of a poor test grade? They may have been amazing students but just didn't feel well the day of the test, of like my our younger sisters have horrible test anxiety but are very bright. How many students are discouraged because they come from underserved communities so they choose not to even try to compete with someone who went to private school their entire education? We could be loosing so much talent and ability simply because of the competetive nature of the system. It can be argued that you want the very best doctors, nurses, engineers, etc. working for you. And it is a simple fact that some people are better at some things than others. But shouldn't we try to help one another, lift each other up instead of stepping on one another to climb the ladder of success?
       Even in the Olympics we see incredible athletes crushed by the failure to earn a gold medal. They are incredible athletes who are among the best from their respective countries. But that medal is the only way some feel truly recognized as the best. They were the best that day but who knows, they last place finisher may have been the best yesterday or tommorow. Competitions are often decided on that day, it is not a true evaluation of a persons ability and should not be the overwhelmingly majority of how we determine who the fittest is. 
       Competition has a place and time, and will never been done away with completely. There is a lot of benefit to pushing oneself to be the best you can be. But when does this competitive atmosphere start to stifle the acheivements we could make with cooperation. Maybe we should start promoting a new addage, "Together we are stronger", or "Cooperation acheives more than Competition". 
