Competition is in human nature. At the end of the day, our ancestors prevailed above all others in tests of physical and mental strength. With this in mind, it is easy to see why we may be naturally competitve in all aspects of our lives: work, relationships, finances, etc. To achieve these things, however, also requires cooperation. No big corporation or CEO has had success by themselves; they have also required other individuals working as a team to keep things in order. A singular person cannot be the expert in everything, but theoretically, a team of people can. While competition is always present, and perhaps necessary, a high sense of cooperation in a group of people leads to more success for both the individual and the group.
Andrew Carnegie was a famous and influential individual for his steel company. But did you know that he hardly knew anything about the steel business? Rather than attempt to study the inner workings to profit on, Carnegie actually managed to hire other people to do the "hard work" for him. Carnegie had the mindset of cooperation rather than competition in the workings of his company. He was not ashamed that he did not know as much as his team. After all, he was still making an extreme amount of money! This scenario can be applied more broadly to the everyday situations we encounter, too.
The field of engineering is a complex one, with many specific disciplines and sub-disciplines intertwined together. Take any project you can think of: a rocket, a plane, a computer, a house, etc. All of these have one thing in common: cooperation. While not immediately obvious to some, the design and assembly of such objects takes the collective and cooperative mind of a group of people. Imagine going to college to major in ten things! It is simply not possible, but with cooperation, things simply get done. Time is such a limited resource, and we as humans have to make the most of it. Trying to one-up everyone else in everything will only lead to the opposite of the intial desire.
A counter-point for the discussion on cooperation vs. competition could lead to the possibility that competition leads to greater motivation and drive. While true to an extent, competition tends to do more harm than good. When emotions get in the way of objective work, disasters occur. The goal at hand becomes pushed aside; the real goal becomes being better than the other person. There might we a winner at the end, but that isn't without the pain of the process and a loser. Collectively, this is less success than a group would have by cooperating towards a common goal with the same motivations and outlooks. 
As much as both competition and cooperation are necessary, there has to be a limit on how far we push ourselves regarding the former. Our goal becomes a game of being better than one another. With a clear goal in mind, cooperation can shine through and become the winner for both an individual, group, and our collective society. A high level of competition is completely unecessary to achieving whatever goal we want. Once such a realization is made, we can call begin to unlock the power of cooperation in our live and achieve the success that we all desire. 
