Ultimately, I believe that more people achieve success through means of cooperation rather than through competition. Competition generally pits people against one another, whether in a friendly way or more of a serious rivalry. Especially when a short-term goal is pictured, it's easy to imagine how directly competing with others might be the easiest and quickest way to achieve success. Coming out on top over someone else often feels like the most direct path to success, but this sort of success is often short-lived. On the contrary, working and cooperating with others is the more direct stepping stone to long-lasting success and achievement.

Directly competing with others is one way to show that your skills are superior to someone else's. This is a sort of success in a way, but is often not a lasting sort. Sometimes it feel as though "stepping on the backs" of others is the only way to get ahead, and while in the short-term this might help you find success and achievement, generally the effects of this success as short-lasting. Even if someone is able to show that they can surpass someone else (whether in skill level, achievement, etc.) these results tend to be short-lived, because there are only so many people you can compete against. Eventually you will be forced to show your skills and achievements independent of competition and this is where you may stagnate in your achievements, at least if you've climbed to the top solely from rivalry with others.

If discussing long-term success (for example, a business venture going well) ultimately cooperation is the driving factor, not competition at all. For example, if you are running a business, you might find short-term success by competing with a neighboring business. Maybe your prices are better, or you have a better selection of products. These factors could easily lead to immediate success, though often at the expense of others (i.e. the competitor). However, in the long term, if you form a friendly relationship with this competing business rather than only competing with them, this could reap benefits for you as well and easily help aid in your success. Maybe someday you will find yourself in need of a vendor and they can offer advice on which one has the best quality products or prices. 

Often cooperation is something that you find you don't really need until it is too late, so it's better to foster it ahead of time rather than hope you can work together when you really need the help. If you spend too much time competing with others, even if these rivalries are friendly, you can often push people away or force them to only view you as competition. Then when you find your success or achievements are being threatened and you need assistance from someone, they might be less likely to help you. Fostering cooperation early on can prevent this from being an issue, in the chance your success depends on cooperation with someone else - and you never know when this will be necessary.

Ultimately, working cooperatively is much more likely to product long-term, lasting achievement and success. Rivalry and competition can definitely spell some success but this sort of success tends to be short lived. Through cooperation success is often longer-lasting and more meaningful. 
