Materialism is often portrayed as exclusively negative and responsible for a variety of problems in American society, such as bankruptcy or . In reality, materialism fuels the American economy, is responsible for keeping thousands of Americans employed, and is not nearly as negative as it is made out to be. Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic because it is a cornerstone feature of our society and any downsides of materialism can be addressed in positive ways.

One pitfall often pointed out with regard to materialism is the belief that a materialistic society can foster bad attitudes in young people. For example, many people may believe that materialistic culture is responsible for young women and girls being obsessed with clothes, makeup, electronics, and other expensive material goods. 

The actual issue is that the parents of these young people are responsible for any excessive material goods their children have. Most young people who work are only able to have part-time jobs because they are in school full time. They are not able to use their own money to purchase expensive material goods. If the parents refused to purchase these goods for their children, they could avoid issues that may come with children having excessive material goods.

Another issue that is often brought up in regard to materialism is the notion that producing and consuming material goods is bad for the planet. While this can certainly be true, consumers can make more sustainable choices when producing or consuming goods. Currently, there are more "eco friendly" options for material goods than ever before and consumers can vote with their dollars to show that they prefer sustainable goods.

A third issue with materialism that could happen is people depending on material goods to feel happy. Although this is normal to some degree, it can certainly become unhealthy. However, there are now more resources than ever available to people who may have an issue with shopping too much or induling too frequently in material purchases. There are free financial literacy classes, more affordable therapy options, and other resources available. These resources make it possible for many more Americans to have a healthy relationship with materialism and consumerism.

In conclusion, materialism should not be criticized because it fuels the economy and keeps thousands of Americans gainfully employed. Despite the possible pitfalls of materialism, there are plenty of methods that the average person can use to consume material goods in a healthy, sustainable way.
