People achieve more success by cooperation, as they have many strengths to rely on while working with others versus merely their own.

When people work alone, they only have their own talents to rely on. For instance, I recently competed in a writing contest, wherein we entrants were provided with a genre, location, and assigned item. While I think I'm a good writer, and I've scored well in previous competitions, I'm also aware that I have some areas where I need major improvement. For instance, I think I write dialogue well, and I'm also good with humor, but I struggle with setting the scenes and descriptions. This causes my writing to lack in some areas. A few years ago, on the other hand, I joined a group of fellow writers and cowrote a cooperative book for NaNoWriMo with them. I thought the book came out better than anything I could have written alone, as others were strong in setting scenes and describing things. Likewise, I was able to fill in where others struggled with dialogue and/or humor. All of this is to say that when someone falls, with cooperation, someone else can pick them up and help them to carry on or to even continue the race for them, like in relay races (though the latter is generally minus falling).

Now, some may think that without the driving force of competition, a person may get lazy or, if cooperating with others, a person may even just "dial it in," as they think others can pick up the slack. While I do agree that that can happen, I also submit that for someone who's truly concerned with succeeding, they won't want to lean on others' strengths like that.

Others may argue that people can learn to do things better, thus improving on their own. And while I do agree, I think that people are born with only so many capabilities, so they'll struggle somewhere. For instance, my boyfriend is intelligent, funny, talented, well spoken, and kind-hearted, but as perfect as (I think) he is, he does struggle in some other areas. While I think he can work on improving in those arenas, since they don't come naturally to him, they'll always ever be "lesser" capabilities.

There's a reason that people are social creatures, and it's not only for companionship. It is also to aid and assist each other, for we are much stronger together than alone.

