The workplace can often have a variety of highs and lows. The environment in the workplace can be fueled with people who encourage competion or rather a managment that encourages co workers to work together in harmony. The majority of our lives are lived in our workplace and the daily vibe and flow of an office is paramount to our inner happiness. A competitive workplace will lead to people undermining each other to reach that first place ribbon being dangled in front of the employees, whereas a group who is cooperating will be looking for ways to see eye to eye and to help others. The way to sucess is through people supporting each other and having truely kind hearts who want to give.

Historical books such as the Bible reinforces the idea that helping each other is the way to happiness and not being a giver of time or money can lead to disaster and shame. More recently the effects of people working together created companies which use crowdsourcing. A place for people who have no connection at all to come together and support each others ideas with time and money. A company that seeks to encourage their own employees from the managment position has the potential to have even greater sucess, when these people are all being lead by a common mangament team. What could be viewed as motivation through competetion is also a method that drives some tech companies and their employees to work long over time and some even sleep at their workplace being driven by the one goal of being considered the best and smartest. This competitive view is used in sports and drafts to weed out the weak and can translate to workspaces and cause a brutal workplace environment.

When a managment team comes together to agrees to use the more gentle way of workplace cooperation is can be a cure for workplace hostility. In this era,  people want to feel heard at work and even more they want to be supported and seen. The tempo of an office can inspire people to do thier best while remaining positive and being rewarded for helping others not competeing against them. An attitude of helping co workers and pitching in, when needed and not always wanting the spot light can create a shine and spotlight across the company as a whole. Then the pride of working together can really shine.

