Images and impressions have way to much of an effect on people.  I find that images play a huge roll in how people feel about other people.  They really don't get to know the real person. They look at someone who may not dress in the best, have lots of makeup on or have their hair perfect and assume alot about them.  They may assume they are poor, homeless or just don't care enough about their selves to do anything.  They could also assume they are jobless or do not try to support their selves.  I am embarrased to say I have made such a mistake.  I started a new job.  One of the employees that I would be managing looked very unkept.  He had very long hair and a very bushy beard. He dressed in clothes that were stained and shredded.
I did make the snap judgement that he was poor and didn't have alot of nice things.  Then on week 4 of my new employment he came through the door and I had to do a double take.  I thought a new person was coming in my office. He had cut his hair, trimmed his beard.  He was still wearing the same kind of clothes but other wise looked completely different.  I made the statement to him that he looked completely different. I also said how nice he looked.  He was surprised that this transformation has made such a difference.  He then told me that he had reasonlently lost his wife to an overdose.  He had been depressed and just not really willing to do much of anything other than work.  He also made me realize he was in such ratty clothes because he was one of our "grunts" was always getting very dirty.  I vowed right then to never let the image of someone or my first impression define how I felt about people.  He is very nice guy who was going through a hard time.  We have became great friends and co workers. So I do believe that images and impressions have to much effect on people.  We need to look inside someone and get to know them before we make snap judgements. I will always do my best to never do this again.  
I explained this to my son.  He is 18 and has grew up in an enviroment where image is everything.  You have to have the right brand of shoes, shirts and pants.  You have to have an amazing car.  Luckily I raised a well balanced son who bought a Ford Focus and could care less what brand he has on.  He seems much happier than all those boys that play into the image of being the best and the most rich. I believe kids trying to keep up with everyone else are very stressed.  They let not having the best things really effect them to the point that its very upsetting. So in conclusion, yes I believe images and impressions have too much effect on people.
