As the old saying goes, appearances can be deceiving. We rely on our eyes as our primary sense for processing information about the world around us, and so of course it's natural that images and visual impressions have an overly-impactful effect on most people. Our senses are all we have to rely on, imperfect as they are. 

In our current age and technological level, we are more reliant than ever on appearances to make decisions about products and people, because those are what are most readily available. We are bombarded with information on a daily basis and lack the time to really dig in and learn more about anything except that which is most critical for us to learn. On the flip side, anyone with something to sell, be it a product or a perception or an ideal they would like us to embrace, knows well that packaging is the key to persuasion. Massive amounts of money are spent on learning which marketing ploys work best to manipulate us into doing what they want us to do, whether it's to spend money or behave in a certain way. They deliberately create the illusions they want us to see, and we, lacking the time and energy to decide whether it's real or all lights and shadows, most often fall back on just going along with the illusion. If anything, we compound the problem by feeling the need to paint our own public faces as being brighter, happier, more successful than perhaps we really are or really feel. 

Of course, in this age of interconnectedness and social media, it can be said that truth is also more readily available. For every company touting a product in a pretty package, there are consumers putting the reality of their less-than-positive experiences out for all to see. For every politician or entertainer painting an illusion, there are masses of naysayers to poke holes in the illusions and expose reality. But aren't those individuals also painting an illusion, of sorts? When everyone is waving their hands and creating an image of how right and appealing they are, and those illusions are in direct contradiction to each other, then who can tell which is reality? The truth could be one or the other or lie somewhere else altogether. And so it is that what we think we see becomes more important than what really is, for the mere fact that none of us can actually see true reality but only what makes it into our minds through our subjective senses. 
