     Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? That's the question to be answered and it's a rather difficult one at that. Many would argue "Yes, it should", but few take into account just how hard it is to not be materialistic in this day and age. I think that while materialism should be toned down it's not something to be thrown away completely and it's rather unfair to criticize being materialistic in these modern times.

     Materialism is placing importance on having lots of things, lots of money, or both. Though some of us wish to be free from materialism, most will find it inescapable. It's just a fact of life that you need money in order to survive in this day and age and you need a few possessions to make life easier and more comfortable. Sure some could argue that a person could have neither money or possessions and just live like a wildman in the woods somewhere, but not only is that an extremely difficult way to live, it's also illegal and entirely unfeasible for most modern people. No, most of us have to accept materialism to a degree in order to keep on living. We must accrue money in order to afford the things we need. Even the most staunch opponents of materialism must begrudge this simple fact, but the problem that arises is because few people actually stop at just acquiring the basic things they need to survive. Most people don't want just shelter, they want a nice home, most do not want simple sustenance, they want tasty and enjoyable meals, and of course most people want various entertainment devices to make life more enjoyable. Most people are caught in the rat race by default, they must work in order to get the money to fill their basic needs, but they rarely have the option to just stop working once they have enough money for those things. What are they to do in that scenario? Just have the most basic things and horde the rest of their money for a rainy day? It's certainly an option, but it's hardly enjoyable. If a person is made to work so long then maybe they should use their money to show off the fruits of their labor? Maybe they should buy a larger more comfortable home, maybe they should buy some some sort of entertainment device to make their down time more fun? Buying those things is an act of materialism and wanting to spend the money you earn and have things to make life more fun isn't wrong by any means. It's my opinion that most opponents of materialism are actually opponents of materialism in excess, when someone has everything they need and plenty of things they want, but they continue to accrue and horde. When one has such excess wealth and they spend it recklessly many view it as wasteful. Afterall there are so many other people who can barely afford the things they need so how is it fair for this other person to be recklessly spending their wealth on things they may not even want or use? That is materialism at its most excessive and dangerous, but for the common person it's rarely even possible for them to reach that point. 

     Like many things materialism can be negative when taken too far, but in moderation it's something that shouldn't be so heavily criticized. For many people some form of materialism is just the way things are for them, it's how their society operates.  A person should be able to enjoy some material wealth, afterall who here can say that they don't do just that?
