  Naturally people are easily influenced by visuals. When driving down the highway they are confronted with billboards. Upon opening their social media pages they are flooded by visual advertisement for a new clothing article, a new tv show, or possibly a new restaurant opening in the upcoming future. You can't turn on a television, computer, or sometimes even hop in your car without being punched in the face by advertising of a brand.  In a week alone I've probably seen the same Disney World ad sixteen times. There has been an influx of influencers up and coming on the Instagram scene because of their ability to reach millions at the hands of their computer screen through their pages.
   Imagery and impressions do for certain effect people. Nike is a prime example of this. Their advertisements depict a simple logo, their famous check mark, plastered on the same page or billboard as a famous athlete. Ones such as Serena Williams or David Beckham are shown in the background. The logo is always at the forefront or always brightlty colored so it's noticed as a Nike ad even though the shoes aren't going to turn everyone into Serena Williams. They are selling a dream, selling a look, selling the fantasy of wearing their brand of shoes and someday possibly being as good as her even though very few people will excel at it the way she has.
   Crumbl Cookie could also be another example of this. They have one product their known for, cookies, but it isnt necessarily the cookies that sell. I've had them before and while they are good, they still arent worth the price. But they have catchy advertising on Tik Tok and they have the cute pink boxes. They're good for gift giving, good for 
 parties, the packaging is fun but it's really just an overpriced cookie. However, they aren't the only ones guilty of having pretty packaging for a simple product and overcharging for it either. There are tons of food products and other products alike out there with good packaging or advertising that simply aren't very good products.
  Cosmetics companies are probably the one category I fall for most often. A simple ad in a magazine with a face on it, a package with hidden ingredients, a model not even wearing the product the cosmetic line is selling. It is very easy to fall for a make-up product that the artist can't even explain the ingredients too just because it makes someone else look flawless. Myself being a woman can especially relate to this topic as I have fallen victim to products that make up artist put out not realizing that they've spent 16 hours in makeup to perfect that look that day and that I am not makeup artist. I wont probably be able to make their palette look as good on me as it is on them but the outside of the palette is pretty or the artist looks great so I buy it. Addison Rae, a popular content creator realized a line highly criticized but shes still selling makeup to her millions of fans who yearn to be exactly like her.
  People are definitely drawn to things that catch their eyes and nowadays its practically impossible to not see these images thrown in their face constantly. Social media has become increasingly popular and it has spawned many influencers promoting these products in a picturesque way. For some of their followers, these ads are some of the first things people are stumbling on upon logging in. Influencers dont necessarily like these products all the time either, its just a cash grab but it's a scam that the world equally falls for. Who wouldnt want to wear a watch or drive a car so they to could look like the modelesque people posed in the ads on their luxury vacation? That after all is the dream most people are searching for.
