Cooperation is a part of everyone's life. Everyone must learn the skill of cooperation to some degree. You cannot be at odds with everyone. It's hard to even picture what kind of an existence that would be if there were no cooperation. But the world is not solely cooperative. Competition exists. 

Competition means that we work harder because otherwise, someone will take things away from us. When we think about competition, sports come to mind. We think about wars, too. Life hundreds of years ago was more competetive than it is today. When there are scarce resources, you have to compete. Because the world is less competetive, we might not consider our lives to involve so much competition, but this is an unusual circumstance in history that we might live lives that do not feel so fiercely competetive. 

People achieve more success by being competetive. When you cooperate, you appease people and sometimes they give you what you need or want. When you compete with someone, you are forced to become the strongest, most capable version of yourself. That version is either enough to dominate someone else, or it isn't. The person who is strongest is the one who will succeed in competition. 

It is an illusion that those who cooperate have the most success. The person who is the most competetive can have the luxury of cooperating with people. 

Cooperation has its merits, definitely. When we think about what society we would like to live in, we would prefer a cooperative one. Who wants to live in a competetive existence? Sure, there is the satisfaction and glory if you succeed in competing, but your life may be full of pain and fear. So many wonderful things can be achieved by cooperation. When we think about cooperation, we might think about work organizations, artistic collaberations, creating massive feats of engineering like the pyramids. We may think about siblings getting along in the household. So when we are evaluating success- what is a successful life- it makes sense that cooperation would be a big part of that. Most people when they think about the life they want to lead, that life would involve a lot more cooperation than competition. 

Competition brings drive and incentive to become stronger. A cooperative environment is only going to be so effective if the people within it are only so strong. 

While life involves both cooperation and competition, the key to achieving success is invariably competition, and being able to compete. Cooperation is just a tool to avoid conflict amongst the people you live with. Competition is what drives people to be better than other people. And the ones who are the best are the ones on the top. Other people yield to you when you have strengths and assets that other people don't have. What makes you the best, strongest version of yourself is the fear you endure and the work you put in, that you otherwise wouldn't have gone through if there were no competition.
