    How is success achieved? Success can be fostered in different ways in different settings: a sports competition, a workplace, an academic setting. But what drives success? Some say that competition is the driving force behind success, and others believe that cooperation among peers is the ideal way to achieve better results. I believe that cooperation can get anything done in a more sufficient way. With cooperation the flow of ideas is greater, the speed in which you accomplish your goal is increased, and the satisfaction of having worked together with others completes my idea of success.
   Cooperation with others is driving force for creating new ideas. In a workplace team meetings with brainstorming activities is an effective tool. Humans listening to one another sparks the creative process and often brings up ideas that otherwise would have been overlooked. In team sports, cooperating with one another to create game plays from different player points of view often results in a better game. Bringing the most out of the box and novel ideas often is the key to a succesful campaign in any setting.
   Success also requires a kind of speed and efficiency. Getting work done in a timely manner is an important factor to having a job well done. When cooperating together as a team and utilizing individuals strengths, tasks can be completed in a much faster time frame than when individuals are working against each other. Just like animals working as a pack to bring down their prey, the fastest is usually the winner and when you have multiple individuals working together towards the same goal success is that much closer.
   Cooperating with others and achieving a goal brings a type of satisfaction neccessary for achieving true success. For what is success without a sense of pride? When working with others and completing a job in the most efficient manner and getting good feedback from other individuals a person's sense of self and confidence is heightened. These positive feelings that come from cooperating with one another to achieve a common goal is a marker of trues success.
   Cooperating with others is truly the path to complete success. From achieving a speedy victory, working together to create amazing ideas, and the satisfaction and positive feelings from working together- true success can be achieved in the most efficient and pleasant way.
