                                Materialism is now spread in all over the world and it is very popular in the world. In the world majority of the people is more corcened in the materialistic society. There is too much prominence today on the brand of clothes and food  and what our we used in our daily life. In the modern world it is criticized by some people because they follow their old tradition and culture. 


                               They didn't know the effects of the materialism in the modern society they trust that it could lead them in right way but it leads only in danger in the future. Materialism attach to the man by the way of money and material things. Materialistic people accept the materialistic world but the old tradition and cultured people didn't accept the materialistic world. 


                              Because they know there is nothing in it because materialistic people attach with high amount of money and wealth in the society they trust only that kind of people they didn't accept the low people. Money play a major role in the materialistic society. In the society some people is focused on the brand of wearing clothes and high trend food and wealth in the materialistic world. They are only corcerned in wealth of material possessions. So we shouls try tbeing too materialistic in the world.                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
