     It only takes a brief glimpse at today's social media platforms to see that materialism is a big part of modern culture. The things we own are part of our identities and a way to communicate those identitities to others. We spend much of our lives consuming, or working for the means to consume. But should modern society be criticized for being so materialistic? I believe that to answer this question, we must first ask- is modern society is any more materialistic than any other era? I believe that it is not, and therefore today's world should not be criticized any more than the past for its materialism.
     It is a natural tendency for people to look to an idealized past and to have nostalgia for bygone days that may have never existed. I am reminded of the Twilight Zone episode "A Stop at Willoughby" which dramatizes an imaginary town at which a train passenger makes regular stops. The town is based on the memories of his childhood and the idealization of a simple, slow-paced, nonmaterialistic way of life that he remembers. He dreams of this way of life as he commutes back and forth to a job that he does not find fulfilling. However, as he finds out by the end of the episode, the town never existed. This can be an allegory for the way we see the past as being less materialistic, but in reality, we are just reacting to our dissatisfaction with materialism by inventing a world in which it does not exist.
     We can see that the past was just as materialistic as the present by looking at the depletion of species to the point of extinction or near extinction for the purposes of fashion. The North American passenger pigeon was hunted to extinction because their feathers were fashionable for hats. Similar examples exist for other types of birds, like flamingos and species of crane, who were similarly over-hunted for their plumage but survived. The bison faced a similar crisis in the nineteenth century, because of the desirability of their hides for clothing and home decor. In this way, we see that people were willing to go to extremes of mass killing and, sometimes, endangerment and extinction level slaughter, just to keep up with the latest trends in consumer goods. 
      Because the past was just as materialistic as the present, I think that the emphasis should be placed on consumer culture in general. Perhaps it would be useful to think of the problem as a general one instead of one that is relative to a particular moment in time. To think of it as present vs. past is to oversimplify the problem and place responsibility elsewhere than in our own natures. Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic, when historical societies were equally so.

