Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. As a US citizen, we are constantly presented with the idea that capitalism is the only way. We are taught from a young age that money makes the world go round and that things equate to happiness. Parents scrimp and save for months ahead of Christmas, only to go into debt to buy their children the latest and greatest toys, knowing full well those kids will tire of the toy within a few days. Most small children prefer the box the toy came in. So why do we do this?

From a psychological standpoint, I see it as "buying happiness". You want that instant hit of dopamine when you make a purchase, this is why Amazon has made so much money over the years. It's only a few dollars, what does it hurt? What's a little impulse buy here and there? Those impulse purchases add up quickly and before you know it, you're drowning in stuff and are working overtime to keep up with the bills. So is the "happiness" worth it? 

Capitalism keeps us in a vicious cycle. The rich get richer, the poor get poorer. As we are buying more from these large companies (Amazon, Walmart, etc), the CEOs of said companies are raking in record profits as evidenced by the pandemic. We are essentially funding the purchase of their massive homes, vacations, "toys", and other luxuries. While I feel that they are entitled to spend their money as they see fit, I feel that they are purchasing these big ticket items knowing we as a general population are watching, wishing we could have the same. We in turn purchase a knock-off version (we may not be able to afford a Hawaiian vacation, but we may order items to host a luau themed barbeque in the backyard). Where do we order those items? The same companies we helped in the beginning. 

In conclusion, material items do not add as much value to our lives as we are led to believe. A minimalist lifestyle with few indulgences are more likely to leave us feeling content and far less stressed than being surrounded by items we purchased on a whim. We are ultimately responsible for our own wellbeing, not material items. 


