Sometimes images are very much impressive to the people who have a very good looking ,so it is a very much impressive to the people all over the world,if the various of the images can impress the all the people to get the good impression from the people who can get the  good looking, Yes  the images and impression all are very much closer to the concept of the effect to people to great effect to the concept of the good impression.

The images is working under the circumstance of the people to get the good looking is very much smart work . the impression is based upon the image. The first time i see the image of the people in our social we can calculate the person full profie to  check whether their profile is impression or not, so if the image and impression is very much accurate with the people of effect to think about their social status . 

The social status are also based upon the impression of the good looking people images.so in  the world our imppression iss very much concerened about the logic of the image what they get in the society, if they are get a good image their impression also get a very top status. so My point of view images and impression are a very much one to one managed social norms in our life history of people. 

we can think about some hard working people can easily get the impression and good image of all so it will happen to create a good  thinking of the people about a image . And also we can confusing about the people first impression but if we can get closer to that type of people we can get the good type of image and knowledge we get into our life.

so people who can get the first impression is not good means ,we can give them a good chance to get the correct impression of the good images .so images and the impression all are very good to mean a people very much contend to the concept .

The good impression based on the variable of good images of the people, things, product etc...So in our point of view all the images and impression had a very much effect on the people. in our life we can know what is based concept of image and impression in this essay .
