     My view on happiness comes from years of trial and error. I think that people should focus on their personal goals to find happiness in their lives. After a failed 20-year marriage and other disappointments in my life, I have found that the older I get, there must be a rigid balance where I have to focus on myself first and my personal goals. Only then can you better others.

     My career is one of the most important things in my life. I derive happiness from behing able to learn new things as they come along, and by increasing my understanding of what happens in my trade, I can use that information to be able to make others happy by increasing productivity and having people not work as hard for less. I also enjoy the time I have when I am not working, by learning things about life and hobbies that better myself as a person. It brings me a relaxing feeling inside that puts me in a better frame of mind.  While I do not have many family members, I find that sometimes just being alone makes me happy as well, so I can reflect and wonder about things. This is something that I have came to learn in the few years since my life was thrown into disarray via divorce. 

     Now, one may ask "Why does someone want to just focus on themselves and not helping others, for that is where true joy comes from."  You're not being selfish by looking after yourself first. That is something that I have considered in my life, and I cannot deny the fact that people (including myself) finds happiness does come from altruism and kindness towards others when they have a problem. But, I have seen that there comes a time where you have to focus on yourself, because you cannot be a whole person without taking care of your own personal happiness as well. I always imagine self-happiness as the soil from which the seeds of happiness of others can take root and grow into a strong plant which will benefit all with its fruits. The great George Washington is quoted as saying "True friendship is a plant of slow growth", and the same applies to happiness. When you make yourself happy, you have fertilized your personal field for the happiness of others to grow.
 
     You can take care of others and derive happiness from that, which is true. But to be TRULY happy in life, you have to make yourself happy first. Reach your goals, and your reach will extend that much when it comes time to bring joy to others in your circle.
