Men are dogs!  Play tug with a dog, and you are praised as a thoughtful and attentive owner.  Play tug with another person, and you're criticized, or maybe even jailed?  But it is Materialism, that competition for scarce resources, that drives market forces and enables the efficiencies of our capitalist community to provide a better standard of living for all.

We've all heard of Adam Smith's invisible hand, the market force that sets the appropriate price of goods or services.  The more people want an object, the higher the price.  The more an object is available, the lower the price.  Materialism, our desire to posses that object, sets the demand, and fuels the search for supply.  As a community, our materialism creates the existance of the market, and individually, our varied appetites create a range of price points where we end our pursuit.  That spectrum of interest allows the invisible had to come to rest on exactly the most efficient amount and price of an object.  Without that human drive for materialism, capitalist markets would be unable to function, or at least unable to function in the rational and predictable manner necessary to support long term investment.

Materialism also fires the drive for the human brain to create more than what is necessary to survive.  When we're hungry, we eat.  When we're tired, we sleep.  But no human was born with an intense need to possess a beanie baby.  Fed, and well slept, human brains were able to express their creativity in physical form.  Those objects stimulated others to seek them, to somehow own part of the idea of them.  A connection that is physical, emotional, and utterly unnecessary for survival.  By creating the demand, materialism inspires the creation of art and invention.

Others may argue for a utopian community where creation and markets exist without materialism, and that such an urge leads only to scarcity and conflict.  But history has shown that that great experiment, manfiested in the communist economies of China and the USSR in the second half of the twentieth century, was an utter failure.  Without rewarding the human desire of materialsim, there was insufficient incentive for innovation.  People did the bare minimum as a default, for we are also inherently lazy.  Rates of innovation and economic expansion in those countries badly lagged those of their neighboring capitalist economies.

No, it won't bring an equitable distribution of goods.  But materialism in the reason we have so many goods, and so much of them.  And as a rising tide raises all boats, that is good for everybody.
