There's one thing you don't have control over in your life. It doesn't matter how much money you have. It doesn't matter what job you have. It doesn't matter where you were born. It doesn't matter how hard you work. It doesn't matter how much or how little you focus on it. No matter who you are, your time is finite. It's been going since before you were born and will keep going after you're gone. The sand in the hourglass is constant and nothing can stop it.
So, what do you with that time? Your time is your own and you only have so much of it. So you have to make the most of it. Like most people, you want to find happiness with your time. And the best way to find happiness is through your own happiness. Focusing on your own happiness makes the best use of that time than anything else you can do, including focusing on the happiness on others.
Everybody needs to focus on their own safety and well-being. We need a job to make money. We need a place to eat. We need somewhere to sleep. We need clothes to protect us from the elements. By focusing on our own well-being, we allow ourselves to do something more in our lives.
So, why wouldn't you focus on the safety and well-being of others? Because that wouldn't be possible without taking care of ourselves first. That's why we must prioritize our own safety and well-being.
What happens when we've taken care of ourselves? Can we worry about others' happiness then? Not quite.
Part of our own well-being revolves around our own mental state. That means we need to take care of ourselves by finding our own purpose. We need to find a career. We need to find a hobby. We need to find something we're passionate about so that we can maintain that happiness in our state of mind. Maybe we can find happiness by helping others. But it still revolves around other people.
Once we're safe and we have our passion, what comes next? Then we move on to leaving our stamp on humanity. Does that mean finding happiness by focusing on others? Not yet. Because the longest lasting effect we can by creating a legacy for ourselves. Whether that's starting a family to carry your name or starting a business that will stand the test of time, we still need to focus on our own happiness by continuing to pursue further hopes and dreams. Even when we're gone, there will be something left behind. Knowing that we're leaving something behind can help our mental state, which helps us maintain our safety and well-being.
Now you're done. You've secured your safety and well-being. You've found your passion in life. Your legacy is secure. Then what? Now it's time to come to terms with your own mortality. If you've accomplished the previous steps, you'll accept it more graciously than someone who hasn't. Your happiness will stay with you even in the face of the inevitable.
And time is inevitable. It's more inevitable than money or love or friendship or everything else in our life, abstract or tangible. We have to make the most of it. And we all want to make the most of it by taking care of ourselves. We have to do the most we can do with our time. We have to focus on making the most out of life.
Our time is limited. It only makes sense to use the time we have on our own happiness because once we're gone, we're gone. Other people can worry about themselves because they'll always be there. You won't.
