Throughout the various developed parts of the world, materialism lays the groundwork for the development of a competitive economy.  Regardless of your class or station, you're bombarded with advertisments on the radio, billboards, newspapers, and everything in between; each with the intention of prying your hard earned money away for something new.  Hundreds of years of humans wanting to 'buy the best new thing' has set this process in stone, but is it the right way for us to live?

I posit that living a life grinding for every last dollar is a requirement in today's society, but that it's critical that we do everything we can to loosen the stranglehold that materialism has on the human race.  Social media is rife with beautified and glorified images of people 'at their peak' after obtaining a new smartphone, or a new car, when older models would meet the needs that person has just as well.  We attribute shame to owning something that isn't updated.  Imagine pulling out a flip phone during your board meeting; you might as well have spilled ketchup on your tie.  We've made it taboo to have something outdated; and in doing so, the culture of 'repair' and 'reuse' is falling into obscurity.

People can validate their purchases by illustrating that the purchase was for a better cause, like buying a Tesla because they're saving the planet.  However, in order to break into the tax bracket required to be able to fund a car like that, you already have to be positioned financially to afford the 'newest' and the 'best'.  Elon Musk weaponized his brand by making it seem like people were buying for the planet, taking the 'guilt' of the purchase off of their shoulders.

If society doesn't return to critically analyzing what we can do with what we already have, we'll continue marching on to a future of waste and obsoletion.  Landfills will continue to rise to and beyond their capacities, and 'optimized' and 'improved' production will drive the inflation of basic materials skyward, further breaching the wage gaps that already divide the citizenry.  Humans are already obsolete themselves in terms of production, we're being replaced by robots and automation under certain circumstances.  We haven't been entirely replaced yet because we can adapt, but how long will that last?

