The mordern society is very much criticized  in the society for the materialistic reaction .In the future of the societ is based only on the mordern people because they all are very much in the way of  materialism,because they are only want to make money in their life .They dont want to make a life as enjoyment or any other activities .

One  type of group is very much in materialism and the other type of morder society people are work hard and enjoy their life in their own way. In the way of the mordern society people behavior in the society towards the low quality people are very much affect the society for materialism. Because they think the low society people are very much happy and lead life with the happy with their family and friend so they are not in materialism life.

But the mordern society people are very much lead their life with the materialism because they dont need the love from their parents,sibilings,are any others they want only money to happily lead their life so they are maintain the happy life.so the mordern society people are very much materialism in the way of they behavior.

Another type of people in the society are very much associated with the mordern society people they only lead the life like matrialism ,they dont have friends ,family or anything they only want money money money,so they are very much to lead their life as materialism.

The word materialism is made a mordern society to unique and various of their emotions.If they need love from people but they behave like they dont need anybody in their life to lead a life very much hurting.

The mordern society people are only focusing on the money .and they want to lead a happy life with their money only they dont get any  problem with emotions,they  get a problem with the money.if any problem happen for mordern society people  is only the businees problem ,they are want to make more more money from being a materialism they dont need a healthy or happy life to lead in the behavior of materilism.

So in the conception of the mordern society people are very much criticized by the people because of the materilistic.and the mordern society people are also make their life as materialism for  the society to maintain a  reliationship  very unique way.

In the end of the day the mordern society people are very much as materialism, but they are also a human they also need love from their loved one and people they live surronded, but they are make a circle around their with the name of materialism. 
