The nature of happiness and how best to achieve it is a question of great interest to me, as it is to just about everyone. The Epicureans, and late Schopenhauer, thought that happiness was not a positive force, but only amounted to the absence or removal of pain. I personally think there's something to that, and it may have some bearing on this essay, but I'll leave it alone for now and perhaps circle back to it. 

I believe people are more likely to achieve happiness by focusing on the happiness of others than by consciously focusing on their own happiness, and consciously pursuing it. Happiness is an elusive target, one that, when you seek it, disappears. It is not to be looked for, only found. And perhaps it can only find you, rather than you finding it. It must be, I believe, achieved incidentally, in the course of other activities, as a mere byproduct of something else. 

Thinking of the conscious pleasure and happiness seekers I have known and known of, those obviously desperate for it and self-consciously striving for it, I do not see much happiness there. They vacation, they party, they drink, they date. They sleep around, they do drugs, they look up lists of ways to be happy and check them off one by one, like an ill patient looking for a cure or someone with a computer problem troubleshooting. I won't say they necessarily end up sadder or worse off for trying, but they don't get happy. 

Meanwhile, when one gives in, gives up, surrenders himself to life, lives without self-consciousness, lives in pursuit of virtue, and for love of other people - what isn't possible? You achieve it on the way, without even being aware of it. When it arrives you still aren't aware of it, and it is only one day when you are sitting around thinking about your life (something, by the way, a happy person does much less of than a person who is desperately unhappy), you will suddenly notice that you are and have been living in perfect bliss and contentment. 

Many would disagree. We are a selfish people, and very individualistic, and increasingly anti-religious. Virtue and selflessness and helping others seem like so many dirty words to many modern people - perhaps even to the majority of modern people in the West. They are hedonists, conscious hedonists, and they swear by the behavior. The marijuana addict and advocate will stand by his drug. The sexually promiscuous young woman or man will stand his or her sexual promiscuity. So too the dedicated hobbyist or fanatic will stand by his hobby, or by the object of his fanatacism. This is happiness consciously pursued, they will all say, and it is, for us, happiness achieved. 

Who are we to doubt them? This is all subjective. But I look, and I can't help but judge. I look, and I can't help but make judgments, I look and I can't help but say that their lives are inferior in quality and character to a life of selfless virtue selflessly pursued, without conscious desire for happiness. And not just inferior, but, I must believe, far less conducive to actual happiness. I see desperate and pathetic unhappiness in the lives and in the words and in the eyes of these people I have named. These are not happy people, whatever they may say. Whatever they may say.

It is the helpers who are happy. And the healers who are happy - the friendly, funny people, the people whose company is good company, the steady stable people. These are the truly happy people. Even the ones to whom smiles don't seem to come so easily. These have a kind of happiness you cannot buy, cannot even pursue. It is a steady, relaxed contentment. That is the true nature of true happiness, when you finally find it - when it finally finds you. It's not exciting or excited, excitement isn't its province. It is quiet and contented, even in the midst of the greatest possible commotion. 

