Most of the people are very much happy if they are focus only with their problem ,their family, their friends .if they focus on others happiness they can easiiy not achieve any thing in their life .They can only take a bad memories if they can get any other people happiness into their.

In my point of view the people are only focus in their happiness they can easily achieve the success and lead a happy life .so all people are aware of this concept to try to not involved in others matters they can only focus in their personal goals to achieve the succes they need.


So in my point of view the most people are not concenrate in their personal goals they are focus to others goals to make a very worst behavior of intemediate with others problem and other focus personal goal in that way they are lose their focus plan and  not to get a good communication process to avoid this happiness.

In the way of happiness they need they can first focus to their own problem then they need to find a solution to their problem sloved in that way they can achieve the happiness they need to focus.


so we can find a solution then we can get a good happiness of our life with the help of our achieved personal goals. so if you are  need good things you can find a happiness to get a good success so we can achieve it easiy to get a happiness.

we are very much focused to the other personal goal we are not to achieve our goal we are run behind their goals to avoid our succes.but our golas are stopped if we can used their goals to content the good goals.


So all people are need to be very much happy beyond the success of their life achievement and success. so success are based on our goals and not their goals of success so we can achieve the good life lesson to make all others problem sided and we can get the good goals and success and happiness in our life so we can achieve the very much good concept of life to achieve .

The people we can achieve the good focus to made a good success we must focus on our personal goal and need to be success . so we can achieve the good habbit of life to achiev a great life lesson to maintain a good communication of skill to make aa good common senes to make a peoplefocus on thier only problem not others.

If you focus on others problem you are very much affected and get a very bad experience of success and make a very bad thought of life to success . so if you can focus you personal goal to success the life we get.

If we are focus on the others problem we are not get a single happiness in our life .so we are want to get a good success and happiness we can only only focused our personal goals.This is the best way to get a good oppruchunity to get a good success of life way succes andd happiness.

So the final conclusion of the prompt we get is we can achieve many things if we can get a good communication of skills and good oopruchunity to get a good life success to get their benefit of life they lead so we are very much pleased to our personal goals and not to involoved to others gaols.

 so we are lead a happy life this is my success point to lead a happiness to our life. so al people are oly need a good concept of love and energy to focus on their goals .if you can achieve the personal goal you need that is a great success of life to achieve many things of life they get.
so people are more likely to be happy if the yonly focus on their personal goals then the ycan maintain others happiness to them . all people are only want  a good goals then ony need a success of life they achieve the great content of the product they need .If you are very much focused in your life you can get a good life lesson.if youn want to be the first and last man to be happy to achievyyour goal if you focus on other problem you only get a bad ideas bad happiness bad only happen to yo.so you first need to focus to our goals then we can help othres goals to sucess and find  their happiness to make a good life make lesson.

so happiness are only based upon as not others happiness. if you need success you can achieve all the goals you need soyou are good success of life making goals and life happiness for yours not for others.so in my view we want to focus only with our happiness not others if we can make other happy with our goals not for thier happiness.so we are a goood example to make a good life example person n hte wolrd to achieve the success we made with our golas
