Happiness is a fickle thing. It comes and it goes, almost seemingly at random. It is clear that a person's happiness is dependent on their own point of view. Ultimately, however, happiness is most lasting and best achieved by finding ways to help others while also achieving their own goals.

By focusing on one's own personal goals, a person may find satisfaction but only temporarily.  This satisfaction quickly fades as another goal is needed to keep the person focused on moving forward. Happiness is always in the future for people who are honed in only on their personal goals. The real key to happiness is by helping others, without completely sacrificing ourselves. By finding ways to merge one's personal goals with the happiness of other people, they can continuously expand the amount of happiness in the world. By achieving one's own goals and helping others more satisfaction can be felt. Often, when focusing on their own personal goals, people get what they want at the expense of others. This guilt or shame may negate some of the feelings of happiness, especially if the personal goal does not live up to their expectations. Often, our dreams do not match reality. On the other hand, the feelings of selflessness and accomplishment that comes from the dual achievements of personal goals and helping others helps to sustain the feelings of joy that is accompanied by success. As the Buddha once claimed "happiness is never diminished by being shared." We lose nothing by helping others achieve happiness, instead we gain increased satisfaction by knowing that we have contributed positively to the lives of others. By helping people achieve their own happiness, they may in turn "pay it forward" by helping even more people achieve their happiness as well. This is happiness that can be more easily sustained and spread. By merging one's personal goals with the goal of spreading happiness in others we can avoid the guilt of selfishness while also not completely sacrificing our own hopes and dreams. 

In summary, by finding ways to merge our own personal goals with the happiness of others we can greatly increase our own happiness. It will be longer lasting and provide a greater amount of joy. It also has the potential of helping to spread even more happiness through other people helping others. Helping others achieve their happiness is the best way to make people happier overall.
