It may be claimed by some individuals, that images and impressions have too much of an impact on people. The extent to which that claim is true would require a more precise phrasing of the issue at hand. A few issues arise when addressing this topic. For instance, what do we mean by "too much" of an impact? Certainly this leaves us in the realm of subjective interpretation. However, there are some insights that may still be gathered from this subjective interpretation, if we choose to analyze the issue at hand with some level of seriousness. If someone were to look at people buying products in a store on Black Friday, we may very well conclude that advertisements (which aim to leave both an image and an impression) have an impact on people that may be described as being "too much". If, on the other hand, we look at civilizations that are detached from western cultures, we may find a similar obsession. Religion, tends to leave images and impressions that hold immense power over people. After all, many people are willing to kill and/or die over the impact of religious images and impressions. 

However, this analysis has (so far) consisted only of confirmation bias. When we look at shoppers on Black Friday we observe people pushing and fighting each other in stores rather than all of the people who decided to stay home or go for a nice walk in the park. When we look at the religions that people follow and the extent to which they are willing to act on its behalf, we fail to see those that simply believe it but don't think about it very much. Many people believe in God but don't go to church or pray. Perhaps they use God as a way to avoid the fear of death or to conform with the expectations of their neighbors, siblings, and friends. Like other psychological measurements, you may expect to see some sort of a distribution if you measured the effect that images and impressions have on people.

This curve (I suspect) would likely be similar to a bell curve, in which, half of the population is less impacted than average and the other half is more impacted than average. But how skewed is such a distribution on both ends? Perhaps there are more people on each end of the distribution and we aren't dealing with a bell curve at all. This is not a question that will be answered here because this is an empirical question. However, it may be stated that there are some people that are highly susceptible to the impact of images and impressions and some that are significantly less susceptible. The causes of their susceptibility is (as almost always in psychological phenomena) a result of an interaction between nature and nurture. 

Whatever the impact that images and impressions have on us may be, I would hesitate to label it as being too much. After all, these effects are the result of billions of years of evolution, which took us from hunting on the plains of Africa, to completing surveys online. We should consider the value of such a trait before we rush to claim that its excessive. Furthermore, since the beginning of the industrial revolution, we have modified our environment in a manner that makes it unlike anything our distant ancestors had ever seen. There are specialists in marketing, psychology, economics and other fields which have an interest in using our evolutionary adaptations to the advantage of those that pay them. This may simply be a case of society hacking itself and them blaming itself for the consequences.
