While some competition is healthy and useful, I believe that cooperation is more useful and productive.  Different people bring different skill sets, knowledge, and experiences to the table, which is useful in cooperative group projects.  More diverse opinions and varying  knowlege and skills and only help get a job done well.   And while it's good to be driven and competitive to a point, competition often fosters ill will, cheating, and other such destructive behavior within a company.  Is the result of intense competition really productive  and fruitful when the focus is more on avoiding failure than on achieving a goal that is useful to everyone? Also, I don't believe that a competitive, cut-throat mindset leads to better work because it's very self-serving and leads to a zero-sum attitude in terms of work and perceived success.

One setting in which this is apparent is in my library's work group.  There is some competition to come up with ideas to improve our workflow and ideas for better service to our patrons and the community, but the end game is the same and we all work cooperatively toward the same goal and share the credit as a group.  While we may be somewhat competitive in terms of challenging ourselves and we're all evaluated separately on our own work, we're all working toward the same goal and the outcome is better service to our customers and credit for all of us for our work. I feel this leads to healthy competition toward goals that ultimately end up serving everyone, especially our customers.

While I can see the need for competition in some settings, such as sales and brokering, there always seems to be a loser in these situations, ill will, and neverending stress.  Ultimately, I believe working cooperatively toward a goal puts everyone on the same page in terms of what needs to be achieved and leads to continued cooperation and improvements in the work.  I also feel it leads to less stress for everyone involved and to better focus on the end goal, which is better service to our customers.
