 Beauty on social platforms has always been challenged throughout the years. Beginning all the way back into the 1920s when covers of magazines were going from "How to Be A House Mother" to "Red Lips: The Next In".  The media has only grown stonger and more and more people flock to her admireation; now our approval of ourselves and others is based off of what we see, and it has caused major harm in mental health, increase in bullying, and cosmetic destruction to younger individuals.
 Mental health is the most dangerous of all reasons on why social media and advertising can truly damage a person. I have had my own experiences with body disphoria, comparing myself constantly to the other women I see on TikTok or YourTube and thinking to myself, 'if i could just be like them'. In reality, their skin is not that flawless, their hair does not flow like that, they are just as human as anyone. Unfortunatly, they do not protray it that way. Then, if someone at school or in the work place can't affored the "nice" things that are seen on t.v. and other platforms, workplace harrassment and schooling bullying can occour. This makes an average day difficult, instead of working on grades or getting a promotion, you're biggest concern is apperence and acceptance. Lastly, more and more younger people are undergoing the knife and taking that longterm route to make themselves look like the people they look up to. This can cause damage and possibly lead to even more issues. Sadly, this has become a 'norm' for young teens.
 However, it's not the power of being able to have an impression on people, it is what you do with it. There have always been many postivities that surround the media and a lot of people who do fight that stigma of hatred and falsehood. Few celebrties have been known to post 'bare face' photos, showing off natural beauty in all its glory. 
 In the end, social media and people of social status should respect the power they can hold and how easily some people, who just simply adore them, can be persuaded. It can save somene from an irriversable surgory, tormenting bullying, or mental illness. 
