I don't think modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. That's just the way it is now. Regardless of how one looks at it, materialism is a goal, a "high", a sense of accomplishment for most people whether they admit it or not. I feel that if I can buy or have the things I want that make me happy, and I have EARNED them in a positive and non-reckless way, then I should be able to enjoy those things without fear of retribution or guilt. Buying things not only makes me feel better, it makes me feel important and worthy. 

For example, if I, or someone with similar interests, want to buy a pair Louis Vuitton shoes, then I should buy them. But, only if I have the means to do so without jeapardizing other things like a mortgage payment and clothes for my children. Is is a materialistic purchase? Absolutely! But, I feel I've earned the right to purchase it. Some may say that I am buying happiness or I am using my resources to imply I am more successful and better than others. I don't agree with that assessment. Money can be defined as a status symbol by many. But, I choose to look at it as an "earned right".  If I've worked hard all my life to buy the things I want, then why be criticized by others? I believe we work to live and love, not work to save and die. Makes no sense to me.  

Bottom line is people are people and there will always be those that "can and do" and those that "can and won't". And, then there are those that "can't but do" and those that "can't and won't".  You see people standing on street corners asking for money while smoking cigarettes they can't afford and wearing manicured nails. In MY eyes, that is not only materialistic, but reckless and stupid.  They probably don't think it is.  I reaffirm my position that society shouldn't be criticized for being materialistic based on simple semantics. It's all defined in the mind and eye of the beholder and based on the fact that everyone has a different idea of what they consider to be true materialism. 


