The topic of happiness has long been discussed throughout human history. How does one achieve happiness? Is it by focusing on the self, or by focusing efforts on the happiness of others? While spending time to ensure the happiness of others is admirable, ultimately, focusing on one's self is more likely to yield happiness. 

Despite this selfish-sounding claim, focusing on the self is a huge aspect towards achieving happiness. When the topic of "personal goals" arises, people often assume these are money- or greed-driven goals. However, that is simply not the case. Focusing on one's self is vitally important in every aspect - physically, mentally, emotionally, spiritually, sexually. Taking care of one's self can be accomplished by focusing on the happiness of others, but in the end that is typically not enough to carry significantly through one's life when compared to personal achievements. 

As an individual who spends the majority of my time introducing both tourists and locals to the amazing world of marine ecology, I spend a great amount of time ensuring the happiness of my clients. Being mindful of their safety and well-being (physical, mental, emotional) is paramount on my adventures, especially since it's often the first time my guests are in the water! By the end of the trip my clients are usually so happy and excited about the marine world I get an emotional "high" as well. I possibly changed their entire life! However it is a job, and while I love my job at the end of the week so many of those clients meld together and my overall happiness starts to drop. Burnout is a real issue in the working sector, and by focusing on myself and taking time off with my partner to adventure on our own or simply relax and unwind I am able to truly reach happiness. So, while ensuring the happiness of others is absolutely something I periodically focus on, I need to really take care of myself and my overall health. 

Exploring the world - not just the marine world - is one of my passions. Visiting different parts of the US and world is something I do multiple times a year. Learning about new cultures, experiencing different climates and foods, and meeting new people along the way is the best way to experience life. By working hard to ensure my customers are happy, I am able to do things that are enjoyable for me, including travel. Again, while it's wonderful to see the happiness in others, it's up to me to take charge of my life and do things I enjoy. 

As stated from a very specific point of view, true, lasting happiness can only be achieved by focusing on the self, not others. The joy from others is fleeting compared to focusing on one's self. So as long as one tries to better their community and those in those communities but still ensuring their needs are taken care of, personal happiness is accomplished only by the individual.
