Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition? To answer this question, one must first define success and our measure of success. In this case, we will define "success" as the attainment of a shared endevour or goal and our measure will be whether or not it is attained.  Competition will be defined as personal success as one individual competes against another. I maintain that cooperation, in this case, will achieve more success than competition.

It would stand to reason that the more people that commit to working toward a goal, the more support one would have for that goal; not only from those who are actively working towards it, but from those who observe the work that those people put into the goal. The more people feel they have support for their work, the more likely they are to put good effort into the goal, and thus reach success. 

It is also reasonable to assume that different people have different strengths in different areas. The ability to pool those strengths also increases the chances of success. For example, when writing a successful business proposal both the technical solution and the cost of the solution have similar importance in the evaluation of the response. However, in most cases, the individual(s) who are familiar with the technical aspect of the solution are not well-versed in how much it would cost to implement the solution, and that is where the cost calculation expertise comes in. These individuals both want to win the work, but even if a technical solution is flawless and innovative, the cost to implement the solution may be more than the organization is willing to spend. Therefore, both the technical and the cost teams need to work together to present a solution that is both technically sound and cost-effective. There is no way for their proposal to  succeed (win) without both of those considerations, and ergo, without cooperation.

It could be argued that one may have better success competing with each other. In the above-mentioned case, this would not work at all if the common goal is to win the proposed work. In this case, competition would mean that the technical team would propose the most robust approach possible, while the costing team would propose the least amount of cost possible. This will result in losing proposal; one with technical merit, but an unrealistic price.

In conclusion, while competition may be helpful when striving for personal or individual goals, is not helpful when trying to reach a common goal. There would be too much time spent on individual success rather than completing the common goal. If we cooperate, we all win.
