What does it mean to be materialistic? Are we not all materialistic to a degree? In today's society, while there is backlash against being materialistic, many of us, in fact, could be labeled as materialistic. Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic.

Materialism can be referring to being too enamored and caught up with gaining material goods. This can be like a bigger house or fancier car, multiple pairs of shoes, or even an abundance of food. I would argue that many of us, if not all, are materialistic to a degree. This is not necessarily a bad thing. Who is to tell us that we should be criticized for trying to fit in or feel good? That, in and of itself, is not always bad. We should judge others less and focus on being kind humans instead.

It can be hard to not get in the "Keeping up with the Jones's" mentality. If everyone else in your friend group has a mobile phone, why would you not also want a mobile phone to stay in the loop? Just the act of wanting something or getting something does not mean you are too materalistic. It is when you hoard excessively or step on toes to get there that it can be a problem. If you get a swimming pool to be able to swim at home, yet there is a community pool within walking distance, does that it and of itself make you materialistic? Of course not! You may want the privacy, you may want to swim in the evenings when it has cooled off a little, or you may want a space to invite your neighbors to get to know them. Whatever your reasoning, it is no one else's buisness why you have decided to a build a pool.

On the other hand, if we are going after so many material goods, we can be missing out on important things in life.  If you are working so many hours to afford a larger house payment, you could miss your child's baseball game or your partner's anniversary. It is important to remember that we can come to a happy medium with material goods, as with many things in life. If we set aside special non-negotiable time for our family, this can help us be a happier person and family in the long run, and not miss out on all of the important things.

Is it our responsibility to police others' material goods? No, it is not our responsiblity, nor should we want to. Each of us are our own person and deserve to be able to live our life without being told from society that we are too materialistic. I firmly believe how you frame something is very important. An article that is titled "Modern Society is Way Too Materialistic" comes across bluntly with a lot more blame than an article titled "Five Ways to Enjoy Our City's Great Outdoors For Free This Summer". I know that I would click on the second article in a heartbeat to see if there were things I did not know about. I would only be clicking on the first article to read the comment section!

In conclusion, we should not be criticized for being materialistic in today's society. We each are responsible for ourselves and what we do with our time and money. We should use less labeling and judgement on people, and utilize more acceptance and support. We can speak with our actions more than our words. Instead of criticizing others for being materialistic, we can give examples and show how we can live with less, as well as making sure to ensure we are setting aside time to spend with our loved ones. Everyone makes different decisions and that doesn't mean that they should be bashed or judged for their level of materialism.
