People are too easily influenced by what they see and what they are told.  

Influencers have strong control over their followers; their followers take them at their word without careful consideration.  They don't stop to think that those influencers are being rewarded by the companies they promote.  They just want to be like that influencer.

When manufacturers determine how to get people to purchase their products, the packaging is very often more important than the quality of the product.  They ask potential consumers to rate their packaging, tell them what they like and/or dislike about the packing, how to improve the packaging, without a single word about what's inside the packaging and how they can improve that.  They rely upon sales numbers to tell them if the product is okay or if it needs improving.  What the consumer sees, rather than what he/she knows about the package's contents, is what frequently drives a person to buy a product in the first place.

Television ads try to draw the consumer in, by seeming to make a connection between the people in the ads and the viewer, i.e., a frantic mother, making the viewer think the product in question will make their life better.  If you buy their product, you will be happier and healthier.

Politicians are another example of appearances influencing people, often with intention.  Politicians appear to be happy, friendly, compassionate, when you know that as soon as they are out of the public eye, their whole demeanor changes.  And who is going to vote for an ugly politician?!  Attractiveness is an asset in getting elected.  If people know nothing about the choices of candidates and are getting ready to vote, they're going to go with the most handsome/prettiest.  

Too often actors and actresses are judged by their actions, deeds, words, and looks, rather than on their abilities.  Our favorite actors and actresses are generally the most handsome/prettiest.  People don't seem to realize that you can appreciate someone's talent without liking them personally.  Unfortunately, that leads to poor quality television and movies, but, hey, the people are nice to look at.

For all these reasons, people need to carefully examine what they see before making judgments and decisions.  What you see is not necessarily what you get.  
