When an average citizen of the Western world is presented with a suggestion of socialism or communism, one of their first rebuttals to the system will be, "That's nice in theory, but it doesn't work in practice because humans are too greedy." It is easy to see why one would believe this; the world is fraught with such selfishnessand cruelty it's only natural to assume it must be somehow intrinsic to human nature. What this idea fails to take into account, though, is that capitalism breeds greed. Philosopher Andrew Collier once compared this assertment to looking at workers in polluted factories and claiming their coughs are a part of human nature. Throughout human history, the fields of sociology and anthropology unanimously agree that humans have acted symbiotically in order to survive and progress. The survival of capitalism relies on the assumption that competition breeds innovation, that the only force that can drive progress is a monetary incentive to step on others in order to reach the top of a social and economic hierarchy by providing a product or service that is superior to that of anyone else. However, this is not the case; while competition can incentivize innovation, it also hinders it. As a result of this, cooperation is much more effective in bringing about success.

When discussing this matter, the most important example that will be brought up in conversation is that of corporations. In the capitalist landscape that makes up the majority of the globe, companies are essentially at war with each other to create the best product in their respective fields in order to make the most profit. Supporters of capitalism argue that this dynamic of rivalry is what brings about innovation, and that without it, progress would stagnate and new ideas would cease to exist. But this way of thinking ignores the enormous benefits that would be produced if individuals had the ability to work together to offer these goods or services, for talented professionals to be able to pool their knowledge and work collectively towards their goals. The most talented and intelligent of these people, after all, are not solely driven by a desire for profit, but for a genuine passion for their fields. When this fact is taken into account, it become clear that cooperation  would be incredibly effective in achieving success.

The impressive power of cooperation can perhaps best be observed in recent events when examining the develop of the COVID-19 vaccine. COVID-19 uniquely presented itself as a unifying obstacle not just for individual communities in specific areas, but for the entire world. As a result, all of the most intelligent and educated scientists and researchers were all working toward a collective goal, and the success of these endeavors is evident when comparing the state of the world today to that of it two years ago. The cooperation of researches across the planet allowed the COVID-19 vaccine to be developed, tested, and distributed at an incredibly rapid pace, transforming the state of the world by equipping us with a means of controlling the spreading pandemic. 

It is undeniable that rivalry for the sake of monetary gain is the driving force behind corporations. However, it is not true that this is the only incentive that can exist; if economic systems were to be re-structured in order to prioritize cooperation over competition, manking would find itself achieving success much more effectively.
