Modern society puts significant weight on beautiful images and aesthetics. Although "looking good" has always been important for products, services and people, this increased prolclivity for looks has undoubtedly been fueled and intensified by the proliferation of social media. While it was previously  acceptable that businesses had PR teams and would be putting out beautiful but understandably airbrushed images, what was less the case was that average citizens would need to look just as good, if not more flawless, than professional models. Suddenly, "keeping up with the Joneses" resulted in keeping up with your Instagram friends. Overnight, social media also made it such that it wasn't just about looking good, but reaping the benefits that came from it; nowadays, nearly all social media reward influencers with big paychecks. In essence, looking good has become less a personal characteristic than a way to cash in.

Taking a step back, one could try to argue that there is no harm, and potentially even evolutionary gain, to looking "good." After all, our primate ancestors probably developed an eye for what was "beautiful" or "good" and validated it with its ability to help us survive. While this simplistic argument feels easy to swallow, what it fails to address is the fact that what looks good is rooted less in biology than in psychology undergirded by culture and society. Oftentimes, these factors are invisible even to us. In his book "Thinking Fast and Slow," Nobel winner Daniel Kahneman described the two main mental "systems" in the brain, System 1 and System 2. Kahneman advances a compelling argument that System 1, our automatic processes, is riddled with biases and irrationalities that feel "right" but miss the bigger picture. In that same vein, when we consider that exposure effect (being exposed to something multiple times) can endear us to certain images and "looks," we realize that what we consider beautiful is less a personal choice than what we've been exposed to repeatedly. 

People also have a tendency to false equate beauty with worth and value. This is a shallow interpretation of value, and raises all sorts of questions aroung equity, fairness and equality.

So where do we go from here? A few thoughts from my life guide how I generally go about this. The first is an acknowledgment that looks do matter, but only if backed up by substance and quality. No product, service, or persona can survive by looks alone - if you take a look at the most enduring, it's quality, consistency and substance in the end that win out, since - let's be real - looks fade with time.

People who understand this will be able to figure and out and carve out a life that provides meaning as well as beauty; people who fail to understand this will struggle to attain contentedness and happiness. 
