There is a long-standing debate on whether competition or cooperation is more essential and fruitful in creating the results needed to thrive in our world. We have seen this across time and popularized in theories such as "survival of the fittest." We've seen both explored and demonstrated in everything from sports and wars between countries that drive competition to the building of countries and the eradication of worldwide diseases that come only from cooperation. While the discussion will always linger depending on one's individual perspective, my firm believe is that people achieve more success across time by cooperation. 

The power of cooperation is much greater than the power of competition in producing substantial improvements for the participants and the world and for generating long-term positive impacts. The power of cooperation has been proven across history and can be witnessed in everything from monumental tasks of great leaders to everyday experiences of those engaged in school, work, or other such activities.  These successes--the impacts of cooperation--come in the form of bettered relationships, realized commonalities that drive connections among persons, sharing of resources that build up frameworks built on equal and equitable treatment, and a sense of shared belonging and responsibility that pull us together to do great things.

We see the power of cooperation every day. We see it at work when people within an organization work toward a common goal rather than relying on individual members that are simply trying to make their own mark. Success is built on the back of a common vision, working together on one outcome, one mission. We see it in things like responses to natural disasters, in communities where there are floods or tornadoes or other devastating impacts. Facing scarace resources, we see communities come together and cooperate in such instances instead of fighting and competing over things so that the whole community recovers. We see it in things like the global response to COVID-19. We've seen countries come together to support one another and to issue a global response to the pandemic to minimize and mitigate its impacts so that the world can return to a certain level of normalcy. These are just a few examples.

Perhaps most significant, we see the power of cooperation in youth today. We see youth come together to create momentum for change in our world. We see youth coming together to provide a collective voice for changing the unequitable aspects and wrongdoings in our world. We see them not competing but pooling their talents and their visions and their beliefs for true change that will have a lasting impact on the world. We see this in everything from voter turnout casuses to protests against certain activities to speaking out on cultural beliefs and standards in our world. This is the next generation, and cooperation is what drives them and will lead to their success. It's not about individual achievements. It's about bringing together people that support things together, that are cooperating to improve our world. And, we've seen such across time, from the Civil Rights movements of the 1950s and 1960s to the sociocultural movements of today. People coming together--and youth being a major mover--as a collective proponent for change in our world. This is where success is found.

Now, many will say that competition is essential and more critical to life. That, however, is not the case. It's true that competition is valuable in aspects of life like sports or, in some instances, advances in producing technology before other companies, for example. The important thing to keep in mind is that such instances where competition is the rule of the day are the anomalies in our world. These are fragmented experiences where different rules, standards, and expectations are at play. These aren't the total experience of a complex, sustained system of life where there are other considerations that must be weighed. In the broader world, once you're behind the blinders of these arenas that play by their own set of rules, cooperation continues to rule as the prevailing premise that is needed to build success in our world. 

This fragementation is evidenced in an example like the NBA, showing that cooperation overpowers competition once outside of these isolated bubbles. Basketball is a naturally competitive sport, teams must compete with one another. There must be a winner and loser. Individual players are also trying to do their best, to show their contributions to their team. Competition is inherent in the bubble of being a winner and loser within the isolated construct of the game. However, for true change, for lasting impacts that exist beyond the walls of those isolated games, cooperation comes back into play. We saw this a few years ago when players, teams, and coaches from across the league came together to protest racial injustice. Jerseys were changed to speak out against injustices, common shared messages were displayed across the league on courts and in commercials and in interviews. It was only through this cooperation--against the backdrop of competition in the isolated games--that the collective power of this message was demonstrated. Even these intensely competive men understood that only cooperation has lasting power for true, meaningful impacts in our world.

At the end of the day, it is easy to see how cooperatoin propels us forward. From the daily tasks we engage in with others to pushing for broader societal changes that are necessary to better our conditions and improve our world. Cooperation will always be critical to this. It will always be the cause behind significant, lasting accomplishments and success in life. We may have to engage in competition in isolated instances, but these frameworks break down when we look at the larger picture of life, which is driven by a complex system of patterns, relationships, and activities. It is only when we realize this, only when we engage in cooperation that we can truly reach our potential as humans and achieve what we are intended to do. 
