I think people achieve more success by cooperation. Cooperation doesn't mean one must give in to please others; it just means coming to a resolution in good faith is better than the competing with others to be the "best."

I have been a part of many occassions in which competition was the main driver, and many other occassions where cooperation was the sole purpose for achieving a particular goal, etc. I have found during my experiences that one, or a group, achieves more success when cooperating and working toward the same goal.

There are indeed times where it is appropriate to be competitive, such as playing a sport; however, the competitiveness should be toward the other team vs. your own teammates. Your team members will have a higher success rate working together; that is, cooperating with each other to reach the same objective. That objective, of course, is to be better and more skillful than the other team. Keeping this as the primary goal will result in more wins than losses.

There are, of course, times when you must compete to gain success. One example is one-on-one skills tests. This could be sports, hobbies, intelligence, or a number of other areas. When one is trying to do better than another in order to gain some sort of success, competition is the only way to go. This competition should be fair and in good spirits vs. cheating or doing something out of spite. 

Whether at work or play, working together to achieve the same goal is very important. There may be some who would argue one should only look out for yourself, as the world is not fair. This, however, is not the thinking of the majority of people. Many good/positive things come from working as a team and cooperating with eachother. It is rare to have intense rivalry at work or play result in positive outcomes in the short or long term.

This is indeed a complex world we live in. No matter the complexity, I feel I would consistenly be on the side of cooperation; that is, as long as the purpose is moral and doesn't go against my beliefs. Yes, there will be failures now and then, but I would still be content in my descision to work as one vs. being involved in intense rivalry to achieve any type of goal.
