     There are many different approaches one can take when trying to generate and achieve success, with two of the most common techniques being competition and cooperation.  While competition and cooperation are both valid techniques to help prompt innovation and successful completion of goals, competition tends to generate faster results in the short term, yet the results will generally be lacking in quality compared to the results attained by cooperation.  Cooperation ultimately acquires greater success by tapping into a wider resource pool to accomplish tasks efficiently, having a greater scope and skillset for spotting and correcting errors, and having a diverse range of ideas to select from.

     Cooperative efforts benefit from a wide resource pool to help them disperse workload.  Competitive efforts often suffer from a limited pool of talent because other groups working on the same effort are direct competitors for acquiring support.  Cooperative efforts are able to share resources and talent to help balance workload, and can easily move and relocate contributors accross groups that are working on the effort, where as compettive efforts are constantly fighting for and competing to acquire and maintain their people and resources.

     Another benefit of cooperative projects is that they have more people and a wider scope of resources for identifying errors and problems.  Competitive efforts have a tendancy to rush through things in an effort to gain success before their competitors.  This often leads to problems being overlooked or missed.  Cooperative teams do not suffer from the same need to rush through things, and have the leisure to make sure things are done right instead of just done quickly.  This may not get something completed as quickly initially, but can save time in the long run by avoiding having to correct things retroactively, and often results in a more successful outcome.

     Lastly, cooperative efforts are able to have a larger knowledge base because there is not the same concern for secrecy as there is in a competitive effort.  Competitive projects are constantly trying to keep their own knowledge and advancements secret from their competitors, which stifles innovation and hampers their abilities.  Cooperative teams are able to freely share ideas, resources, and innovations.  This results in a greater ability to come up with the best solution and the greatest level of success, as opposed to just trying to be different, or just trying to copy some other effort as tends to happen in competitive efforts.

     Ultimately, there are benefits to both competitive and cooperative efforts, but the greatest long term successes come from the resources, error proofing, and innovation that comes from collaborating with others.  Competition can be great sometimes, but working together is frequently more likely to generate the greatest successes with the least ammount of problems, and also generates results that have greater longevity than the rapid fire style of results that you get from competition.
