In our society today there is clear evidence of a "cancel culture." Once someone makes a mistake their reputation is forever tainted and stones are thrown at them for their wrongdoing. The images portayed of people leave a lasting effect on the impression they make on people. Not only does this apply to people, but products as well. Most of the commercials we see today promote false advertising or the commercial features scenes that have nothing to do with the actual product. Society will aim to paint a picture of what they want you to believe, meanwhile, it distracts us from seeing reality as it truly is. 

There is clearly an issue in our society with putting a heavy emphasis on creating a perfect image. In commercials, many of the advertisements use fake food and heavy lighting to make the food seem more appealing and is far-fetched how it appears in real-life. Also, commericals do not appear to be realistic as they capture people singing and dancing in the streets or doing stunts that an average person could not accomplish. Meanwhile, they are promoting tampons or a mobile phone- which has nothing to do with the action going on in the commercials. Some people may say that if they show the realistic version of the food it may not sell as much or would not withstand through long video/photoshoots. I believe that many people appreciate honesty and would actually commend a company that showed a realistic version of their product in commercials since it is so rarely done. Also, if a company spent less time meticulously picking out jingles, bright colors, and action-packed scenes and informed customers of the actual product we would be left more educated on the quality of the product. If one major company is bold enough to make the change to more realistic versions of their products that could create a snowball effect and make people want to show realistic verions of themselves too. Society is caught up in creating the perfect image on social media and appear to have it all together just to appease the way the world may view them. I would even make the argument that it is dangerous to try to broadcast a perfect image of yourself and people have died trying to emulate an image that is impossible to obtain. It truly takes more courage to be yourself and to not worry about how the world may view you, but worry about how you feel about yourself at the end of the day. 

In conclusion, society today is obsessed with creating a tainted reality which is clouding what is truly real and what is fake. I believe the begining of appreciating reality for what it is versus what it appears to be is to start small making changes and once the large companies or celebrities begin to endorse showing an untainted version of reality it could start a movement forever. It is important to be able to discern between reality and a smoke cloud version of the truth, however, that should not be the case. Reality is supposed to be a raw and untainted truth. Today I will begin to be the small change and remove the smoke from my life and live more in my raw truth. 
