Every day we look to our public figures, and the first thing we are influenced by, their clothing. If any piece of their outfit is out of place, the media is quick to attack. Any wardrobe malfunction can ruin a decades long career in a matter of seconds. A female entertainer gets hit with a gust of wind and tussles her hair, she was clearly up to something nefarious. A male entertainer is wearing pants a little too tight, and he's classless. What abut their clothing changes the value of their work?

At an infamous Super Bowl halftime show, Justin Timberlake "accidentally" revealed Janet Jacksons breast during a wardrobe malfunction. Justins career was unaffected, while Janet Jackson was left in ruins. She was forced to apologize, for an incident she had no control over, and it still didnt help. How did that small incident take value from Janet as a performer? Why did seeing her breast make her less than the superstar she was before? Appearances are the glue to society. Showing your body means you have no self respect, man or woman. Janets breast didnt make her less of an artist.

Outside of Hollywood and public figures in general, regular society is held to ridiculous standards as well. People are looked as as trashy, poor, and worthless for taking a quick trip to the grocery store in their joggers or pajama pants. Somehow, a regular working member of society, is now garbage. Just because they didnt dress up to grab dinner, or a prescription. Employers look down on a candidate in a pair of slack and T-shirt at an interview, when they applied for a warehouse job. A suit and tie, or a skirt and blouse, are not appropriate.

Not only are we obsessed with visual appearances, we are hooked on advertisements that appeal to our emotions, not ones that educate us. We watch a 30 second ad showing a family at the park, gathering up their stuff to go home, and watch them drive up into their garage, youngest child does something funny, and all of a sudden there is a voice over talking about memories. It isn't until the last 3 seconds that we find out it's a Ford commercial. No information about the vehicle, just a touching clip of a family making memories. 

At the end of the day, society bases their loyalty on how good someone, or something, looks or makes them feel. Not the actual value of the individual, or use of the item. Presentation is not everything, it is a piece of the entire picture, and society has become to vain to look understand that. "You made me look bad" trumps "what is did was bad" any day. I could put a pile of mud on a plate, shape it, decorate it, clean up the plate, post a photo on Instagram, and millions of people will tell me how delicious my chocolate mousse looks. I could do the same with my face in photos. A little editing here, a little tweak there, and all of a sudden I'm beautiful, and now society has given me more value. why? Because I look good. Not because I am good.

Society is superficial, and has always, and will always, value your appearance more than your actual worth. They will always value a colorful lie, over the dark reality.
