Focusing on others, such as how to leave the world a better place, is important to finding happiness. When people focus on others they feel a sense of pride in the fact that they could improve someone else's life.They are less likely to be stressed and anxious about the problems that they face. Therefore, they feel happier. When you help someone, people may be more likely to help you. Also, connecting with others helps build a sense of community. Vollunteering to help others can be a life changing experience for some people.  

However, it is important to recognize that you cannot let helping others come at your own expense. You cannot pour from an empty cup. You should leave time to focus on your own personal goals. Helping others should not be done in a way that enables them and leaves the person who is helping feeling that they do not have time to focus on themselves at all. If you have true happiness yourself, it will effect the way you interact with the world, and help others by having a positive instead of negitive effect on people. It is true that you have to put your own oxygen mask on first, in order to help someone else. Doing something to improve humanity by helping with a community service project is different than always giving someone something like money but, having none for yourself. Helping others should not be a barrier for a person to acheive their own personal goals. People should not let go 0f all their dreams in order for someone else to acheive theirs. Although, you may put them on hold sometimes , for someone you love. Doing things to help others and make the world a better place has been proven to help a person both mentally and physically in different ways. It can help increase a a person's self esteem. It can also help them realize what is truly important in life. You may be able to set personal goals that fous on helping yourself and helping others. Also, everyone may have a different definition of happiness. There are people that think they are only happy if they are successful themselves. Sometimes people may meet all their personal goals but, they are still not happy. They may feel like something is missing in their lives. 

In conclusion, I believe that there should be a balance between helping others and focusing on your own personal goals. It is a balance that is hard for some people to acheive. A person should not be completely self-centered but, they should also not neglect themselves in order to meet others needs. If they do, they could end up becoming burnt out or resentful. They may have regrets if they do not achieve their personal goals. If you meet your own personal goals, you may be in a better place to help people meet their goals. You can use your own experiences to help others. Doing something to improve humanity can improve your own life as well and that might help you reach the personal goals that you want to reach. 
