There is an old saying that "appearances are everything".  This statement contains some truths.  Humans are visual creatures, and are naturally attracted to aestetically pleasing things, whether it be packaging of a product or choice in a mate.  Even small babies and toddlers rely on visuals, which could explain why most toddler/childrens toys are brightly colored.  

Humans also tend to look for strong and attractive mates, and in a sense, this is a biological drive stemming from early humanity, as humans may seek the most attrative/strong mates to reproduce with, and thus continue the species.  Different cultures define attractive differently, but most cultures and regions have a standard set of characteristics they define as attractive.  Of course, not everyone in that culture finds the same qualities attractive, but there is generally a cohesive set of people who do.  For example, some Asian cultures find extremely white skin very attractive, so many people avoid sun and tanning. 

Similarly. people who are well dressed, charming, and attractive usually make a good first impression in the eyes of many people, but  are not the sole determining factor people use to judge someone. Subtle hints such as facial expressions, body language, voice inflection, and personality can also play a part in determining what someones perception of a person may be.  The classic example would be a supermodel who is visually pleasing, but is so rude and mean to those around her that she becomes "ugly". 

In America, we tend to idolize celebrities and public figures with subpar or no talent who become famous based upon their looks or image, despite not being particulary skilled at their craft.  We accept endorsements and allow them to influence our decisions, even without a factual basis behind their endorsements. 

Many people long to be "beautiful" or have the best of everything without realizing that beauty truly is subjective.  Some of the worlds most famous supermodels are not traditionally beautiful, but have an "it" factor that makes them desirable.  Similarly, there are places that people don't want to visit because they aren't visually pleasing and would never consider booking a visit to see the place, but in reality, soe of these places may have extraordinary history, food, people, and cultures. 

In conclusion, I think images and appearances do have too much effect on people.  While  many people are able to look deeper into a person, product, or place, more people are immediately turned off by appearance and don't bother to investigate the person/place/project any further.  There is an old adage that beauty is only skin deep, and in a sense, it is.  However, it can be argued that in the same sense, if a person is not initially interested in something, then they are less likely to get to know someone, consider purchasing a product, or consider visiting a place.   I don't think there is an easy solution to rectify this, as some of these tendencies are ingrained deep in our subconcious mind and are essential for evolutionary reasons.

