Competition and cooperation may go hand in hand, but in the work place only one of these dominates success. Though all competition is not intense, the idea of comparing two thoughts, ideas, timelines, or concepts drives major successes in the work or play place. This kind of competition may be between friends or adversaries, but it always has an impact on the success of a team. Although cooperation is also important in both work and play, the nature of competition drives cooperation, which means it is at the root of all successes, whether for the team or for the individual.

Competition is at the root of cooperation. One example of this is sports teams. A sports team is comprised of many players, all varying in both skills and positions. Each player has the same adversary (the opponent), but all are competing against their teammates and themselves to break records. Essentially each person is competing to be the best- both as players individually and as a team.  Competition drives teamwork, so it's the root of success. Additionally, without an incentive, people do not have a drive to do their very best. In some cases it may be as simple as recognition, but may include bonus incentives, prizes, trips or special priveleges. Without this driving force, the chances of success are decreased as the motivation to excel is gone.

While some may say that a teamwork environment helps people to thrive and be the best they can be, the truth is that all teamwork is driven by competition, even if it is friendly competition and done with the best intentions. Human nature indicates that as a society, we all want to be the best. The only way to win as a team is if each individual is pulling their weight and giving their all. This competition is imperative to a cooperative environment in which people see significant success. Others may argue that although competition may be important, teamwork and cooperation produce more significant or lasting results. This is not always the case though, as many significant accomplishments as a team are quickly diminished as the team dissolves. For example, if a team of eight coworkers wins a significant bonus for achieving top sales in a quarter, and then six of them leave the company, the achievement is diminished by simply reducing the original team, thus breaking up the success. As individuals competing, that same situation does not happen. Accomplishments are kept in a place of significance because the "self" never leaves to diminish said accomplishments.

In conclusion, although cooperation may be significant for achievement, it is ultimately driven by competition, with either other members of the team or ones self. The nature of competition helps drive each member to be their best, ultimately strengthening the team as a whole. Without incentives, the worker/player/team member does not have any motivation to effectively and efficiently complete a task. ultimately causing the demise of what the team is attempting to accomplish. The accomplishment means more if it is driven by competition, which is the root of success for individuals and the teams. 


