The success of modern society did not happen by accident--it happened through a long history of the human desire to be better. The human race has long thrived in evolution by both collaboration and competition. However, whether it be in the work or play space, people tend to achieve higher levels of success when there is a strong sense of competition. 

Humans have a natural tendency to want to be better--better than their neighbor; better than their coworker; or simply better than they, themselves, were yesterday. Without this competition, people have a hard time setting themselves apart from others and ultimately defining their personality. If one considers the group of individuals they see regularly, everyone can pick out the person who is the "best" at various things--someone cooks the best, someone dresses the best, someone is the most athletic, someone can sing the best, someone is the best writer, etc. It cannot be denied that in one's social circle someone is the funniest, the smartest, the trendiest, the most mechanical, the most charming, or even the most energetic. While those skills and traits may not be a conscious competition, they have been bettered through competition.

All that said, some would argue that collaboration is more important than competition in world because without collaboration, there is not much compassion or humanity. However, where competition gives an actual drive to succeed, it can be argued that collaboration is but a tool for competition. Whether the collaborative group is a sports team or a team working on a group project in the work or educational space, there exists competition. Without collaboration on a team, no one on that team can win, so all individuals are collaborating for an overall win. Even so, there will always be someone who scored the most points or caught the ball the most. Interestingly enough, while it may not be considered a direct competition, there will almost always be a single person who contributed the most to any given collaboration, even when it is supposed to be an equal group effort, and usually that person is consciously or subconsciously hoping to be recognized for their effort in some way, either from their group members or whoever is judging the work.

There is competition all around us, whether we are acutely aware of it or not. We compete to do the most mundane of tasks, even just walking faster to get ahead of someone to hold the door open for them real quick. Our everyday lives are full of competition, and as such, competition is a profound part of the human condition.
