Images and impressions are part of human nature as it is totally nature for humans to want to present their interpretations of something. That said, these can be taken too far, and we must be cognizant of this to avoid falling victim to believing something that isn't true. Looking beyond the image is the key to seeing reality, and unlocking our personal highest potential. This is the key to really achieving personal happiness and satisfaction.

The media is infamous for their use of imagery in advertising. You can look younger, have less wrinkles, grow more hair, etc. These are all promises made in various different ads and commercials. The promise of a quick fix, and a brighter looking tomorrow can appeal to many people in these trying times. For this reason, we have to be careful about the undue effect that the media can have on our purchasing and other behaviors. This is often reinforced through various movies and TV shows as we are presented with unrealistic standards of beauty fo aim for. That said, we want to realize that a concealer or a hair gel is likely not going to solve all of our problems and make us better people. We must learn to look past these ads, and see that our character is more determined by what is inside, and this should have a greater effect on us than those images portrayed by the media.

Some might argue that it is easy enough to ignore these ads and images, and form our own impressions. That is easily said, but it is harder to actually carry out. We live in a world where we are bombarded by the media. Every bus stop and billboard is at fault here. You aren't safe at home either, with the litany of internet pop-ups! Even if we want to avoid these things, it is not always so easy to do so when they are so in your face. Politicians put on a fake smile, and we ascribe to be like those people that we see everyday in the media. A blindfold doesn't always help either as some people are so adroit at crafting equally efficient verbal messages to create that same sense of imagery with in is. While we can always uphold this standard, it is the one presented to us, and it takes a concerted, strong effort ot overcome this. 

While it would be nice to avoid all undue influence from images and impressions, this is not always as possible as we might think. We must put in a concerted effort to look past the superficial that is presented to us, and see things for how they are underneath. This can be the key to good character development, and ultimately, to our happiness as well. Though not impossible, the effect that the media and advertising has can be hard to overcome without serious hard work and effort on the part of the individual. To be sure though, the media certainly has an undue influence on these images, which can not be overstated.
