There is a debate over what makes people happy.   Is it better to make other people happy in order to become happy yourselves, or is getting your own happiness from achievements such as goals the key?  I belive that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own happiness and not that of someone else.

Doing things that make you happy is the key.  Setting goals and achieving them give you a sense of encouragement, and accomplishment, and can brighten your day.  This can be from long and short term goals.  Short term goals will give you immediate satisfaction, while accomplishing long term goals gives you sustaining happiness and a sense of pride.  A short term goal may be to wake up every day for a week and do a load of laundry, or 30 minutes of walking.  A long term goal could be as simple as go the the gym every day, or as hard as get your Masters degree.  When you are accomplishing goals, and are happy your happiness is contagious.  You may say hi to people you normally would ignore, or just have a pep in your step. Even a smile is contagious and if you smile, someone else may smile too.

Some may think that they can only achieve happiness by helping others, and that if they are happy due to their own accomplishments that it's selfish.  This may be true, or just true to them. Maybe they feel that have to feed the poor. Maybe help build a habitat house. Or maybe, they help their aging neighbor a couple times a week.  These are great accomplishments. And they should make you happy. But, should this be the only source of your happiness?   Yes, helping others should give you a sense of happiness and pride, and by helping someone else you also make them happy, but does that not lead to you always having to help someone to feel happy?  Does that take up time in your day that could be used for self gain? Are you sacrificing yourself and your goals for others? What happens if you do not have time to help others one week?  Are you miserable and unhappy and feel worthless? Do you then give up on your goals as well? If that is going to happen, then maybe you should work on your own goals and make that the priority of your happiness, and just use helping others as an extra accomplishment, or a source of civic volunteering or helping ones neighbor, and not as a need.

Either way you look at it, people can gain happiness in their lives quite easily.  While some may need outside stimuli such as helping others to be happy, the norm should be self improvement and accomplishing goals and dreams as your primary source of happiness. Your life will be more accomplished. You will be closer to your ideal life or achieving your dreams when you reach your goals, and you will be a much more enjoyable person to be around. Your internal happiness will be contageous and will spread to others. It may even encourage others to start setting their own goals and reach them when they see how happy you are.
