Materialism can be defined as the collection of physical objects or items, and the money spent to acquire them. Materialism focuses on possessions we can own, as opposed to activites we can experience. It has long been looked down upon by society, and people are judged for finding happiness in material items.
The question has been, and always will be, this: Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? In my opinion, the answer is a strong and resounding "no." I am a strong believer in the fact that people should do whatever it is that makes them happy. For some, that could mean saving up a hard earned paycheck so they can buy a new purse, or a new pair of sneakers they have been eyeing for awhile. If their actions are not hurting or harming anyone, why should it matter that they find enjoyment in the acquiring purchasing of material goods? Modern life is not what it was 100 years ago. It is not even what it was 50 years ago. Life today is not the same as life when our grandparents were young adults. Society and culture has changed and evolved so much over time, with a great focus on material goods. Technology evolves and new inventions are made available. To keep up with today's world, one must own material goods that can get them through the day, such as a cell phone or laptop. They are material goods, but without them, I simply do not think it would be possible for somebody in this day and age to function in their day to day life without them. They would not be able to work, or keep in touch with family.
I also think it's important to mention how material goods can be harmful to our day to day lives as well. To put it plainly, most people just own too many things. Their houses are filled with stuff that doesn't get used on a daily, or even monthly, basis. If we were to all go through our possessions and get rid of or donate things that we haven't used in the past month or two, I think we would be left with almost nothing. While the average person can own a lot of material items, I do believe that they could survive without some of them. Material goods are over purchased and consumed in such masses that we don't even realize how many things we buy or own. I also think people depend too much on material goods to provide themselves with happiness, when it might be healthier to find it in other ways. A new phone model is fun and exciting, but can quickly overtake one's attention and leave them glued to it, when in reality, they could be socializing in real life with friends and family, not with strangers on the internet.
However, everything is fine in moderation. Phones can become an obsession, but they don't have to be. Most people know their own personal limits and can stop themselves from becoming too dependent on material goods. Is there an overconsumption of material goods? Yes. Could modern day society survive without these material goods? No. Things cost money, and they always will. To expect someone in today's society to avoid spending money on things they need to exist in their daily life will never be ideal or possible. We need them to work and to thrive, as that is just how our society has evolved. It wouldn't be fair to criticize modern society for being too materialistic, when it has grown and changed on its own to become this way. We are just along for the ride, trying to keep up.
