Have you ever wondered if people would be more happy if they  focused on themselves and there person goals ?  What about if they focused more on the happiness of others?   Happiness I believe is found in helping others.  Helping others takes our minds off of our self and by helping other people it gives us a sense of purpose which in turn makes us happier.

People were put on Earth to serve others not ourselves.  This is where we need to more of our attention.   We all think that more money, more material items. a job promotion, etc, will bring us happiness when in reality it doesn't and never will.  We spend most of out lives trying to find this so called thing called "happiness" and yet we are never truly happy.  However, when you start serving others instead of yourself you wil begin to find true happiness that you never knew existed.  

My mother for example tried to find happiness in different men.  Growing up she would have affairs with her bosses and so on.  She always chose the men with money, thinking that each one would bring her some sort of happiness.  None of them did of course.  Her husband of many years died at age 63 and now she is alone, most likely forever.   However she moved back to the state Of Texas with her family after his death and started doing things for others, with the advice of her sister, and she has found the happiness she was trying to get for so  many years.  I myself have tried to find happiness in material things. and money.  I thought if I just had certain items I would be happier.  However I felt pleasure for a short time but it would dissapear relatively quickly or I would feel guilt for spending money on something I really didnt need.  

Now some say that happiness is found when you focus on yourself.  I would say that you do need to care for yourself and enjoy things you like to do from time to time.  It will make you feel less tired, and more energetic. Self care like soaking in a bath or getting a massage, is not something to be overlooked by any means, but spending most of your time on yourself only is not a good thing at all,  and you will never be happy doing so.

God put each of here for a reason and it wasnt to find happiness in ourselves.  It clearly states in the bible that we are here for others not ourselves.  Our main focus should be on others and how we can help them.   It is helping others that we find our true purpose of being here on Earth for this short amount of time.  SO spend your time volunteering, and helping charities, or teaching , or feeding the hungry etc and you will find your purpose which willl in turn bring you happiness  .        SO ask yourself. who can I help today?




