On the topic of whether people are more likely to be happy  if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others, you may be wondering my opinion. That question is extremely loaded and full of variables. However to the best of my ability I will sumarize by stating, I belive it's a mixture of both. Many people can become happy and maintain happiness by focusing on and persuing their own personal goals. Other's are more prone to being happy and could not imagine being so unless they are focusing on the happiness of others. 
There are both types of people in this world and neither one is wrong. They are all doing what they feel is right in an effort to succeed in the one thing we all crave in life, happiness. We all see it a little differently. Some see happiness as finally getting that corner office or penthouse apartment. Other people want nothing more than to feed the homeless and feel like they're making a difference in the world. 
Personally, I believe the key to happiness is becoming successful in something that not only fulfills you're deepest desires, whether that be money, success, or peace of mind while also being able to give back to society and the people who need it most. For me that means gardening. I love to garden. The stillness of nature, planting that first seed and watching it grow into a fruitful tree or vine. I enjoy knowing that I was the cause of these beautiful flower buds opening in the sunshine and being able to taste the juicy fruit of a self grown tree. What makes it even better you might ask? Knowing that I can share all of my harvests with my local commmunity. That feeling is unbeatable. 
I have never been more satisfied than when I realised I could fulfill not only my own needs but also the needs of those around me. I can give to the homeless, sell at farmers markets, share with friends, and even feed local animals. This is the reason I believe that true happiness comes from a combination of both. Focusing on your needs and others.
