So, it seems the question of the day is how much of an impact images make on people.  Do they really look at what is inside or are they just interested in the bright sparkly packaging.  Or the reverse can be true also. 
 Are people turned off by a package that might really hold something of value, but it does not have a delightful appearance.  This can apply both to people as well as things.  

I believe we are living more and more in the time of short attention spans.  People will make snap judgements more on what they see rather than what they have to make the extra effort and read about.  It is so much easier to just look at something and come to our own conclusions rather than take the time so see what is really there.  

I believe the start of this was with the remote for the television and that followed shortly after by the DVR.  No longer did people have to commit the whole time to the program they were watching.  They did not have to decide if it was worth getting up and walking across the room to change the channel.  Then, people really did not have to decide what they wanted to commit their time to when DVRs came along.  They could record something, and then when they watched it, they could skip the ads and fast-forward anything that did not hold their interests. 

I am young enough to remember when we waited all year to see the Wizard of Oz come on television.  We made plans to watch it and we sat through the whole movie.  It was the same thing with the Christmas specials.  Parents marked it on the calender when they would be on, and plans were made around watching together as a family.

I am sure there will always be those who take the time to look beyond the cover and see what is truly inside.  However, what I have observed is that there are fewer of these people each generation.  There are people who will wait and see how something lives up to its appearance - not many people, but some.

So, while we want to change the world, and have equality for all, as long as we only judge by the outer package that we see, I am uncertain how that can ever happen.  I think this need to make an impression of something without information to back up that impression is not going to make this a world where we are more accepting of anything or anyone that looks different.




