     Cooperation versus competition. Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition? Cooperation would be the likely answer everyone wants to hear, however, to achieve success for an individual, competition prevails.  For example, in our modern world, if one is working for a large company and that individual have to work in a group which was given an assignement, such as, providing a solution for a given problem. Each individual have to come up with their own solution first. Each individual would have to compete with each other to come up with the best solution first. There is the competition. Cooporation only come after the chosen solution has been identified. 

     If an individual can achieve success with just cooperation, it is unlikely that the individual is doing his/her best. Everyone had worked with a group in many situations. Don't we all know there are always the slackers. The slackers that complain about something in their life that makes it hard for  them to make contribution to the group. To take this scenerio further, maybe we, as a group like this slacker and follow the slacker's direction because it is nice to cooperate with the slacker. As a group we are being cooperative, no one is complaining because we are all working at the lowest level that have been set by the slacker. We are being cooperative with each other in the group. The counter argument to the scenerio would be "that is not cooperation." How would you define cooperation? 

    Let's go back to competition. There is always a clear winner. And the winner always have an attribute that others want. Take sports, for example, there is a clear winner in the Olympic games. Those who win usually get endorsement for advertisments and other perks from winning. That define success. Name a person or group of people who have achieved success through cooperation. Remember most of the time these individuals or groups have already compete with others before they use cooperation to frame their actions for future success. 

     This conclude my essay. Competition is the only road to success.  
