Our world is full of information and appearances that often deceives us. One could say that we often face an overload of information that comes at us from every direction. Billboards, advertisements on streaming services, ads on our phone, and many more forms of informative information are presented to us daily. Beyond advertisements, people look at movie stars and musicians that are often judged based on how they appear more so than their substance. To find true value and truly fulfilling content, we must look beyond the surface. As it stands, people often take what they see as the truth and buy into false pretenses. That must change if we are to make the most of what we have.

Let's focus on advertiments to start with. Think of a restaurant like McDonald's or Burger King for example. When they present a new item, it looks delicious. The bun is presented as perfect, the vegetables are crisp, and the meat is hot and fresh. When you go to these restaurants, do you really get a similar product? Most of the time, you do not. Yet, you have already given them your money regardless of your experience. People then proceed to complain on social media or to others about the item. Later on, many people will go back and try the same product again. If they do not try the same product, they purchase something from the same restaurant. Why do people do this? Because they buy into the advertisement of the product. Doing so is telling the company that it is okay to present a product as one way and deliver it in another. It's not just food either. You often see this with household products that show a cleaning product that absolutely destroys dirt and grime in the advertisement. Then the person goes out to buy the product without doing research and realizes it's not what it claims to be. This is all based on how the product is presented instead of what it can actually do. There is no excuse for this with the wealth of information online. Finding product reviews on social media, blogs, and e-commerece sites are a common thing and take little to no time. 

Now I will talk about public figures or celebrities. Many individuals are successful for more than their look than their actual abilities. People go to certain movies or music performances because of how they feel about the person's appearance. Perhaps they find this person attractive and that's why they go. Maybe the person is not that talented but has a unique look to them that people want to see. There are factors that play into this beyond just appearances as well. A person may appear charitable but may not be at all. They may speak on things they say they care about but not back that up with any actual action. Similar to products, you can figure out how a person really is based on a little research. Think of politicians if you wish for a good example of this. They often preach about their ideals but fail to back it up once they are in office. Empty promises that fool the American people time and time again. Individuals should ask themselves if they really are supporting a person worthy of their money and time. Appearances are nice but talent should not be ignored nor should geninuely kind people who back up their words with action. 

I know that many people would argue that this is a subjective matter. Perhaps they find value in the food they purchase at a restaurants. A consumer may think that while a product is presented as great, it being decent will suffice for now. Fans of a musican may think there is much better music out there but like the person for their look more. They would state that it is fine to spend their money how they want. A person may be okay with taking a person's word as one hundre percent true and feel that they are sincere with what they say. This is true and one cannot argue with that. However, wouldn't it better to hold companies accountable for what they promote?  Shouldn't they have to provide the standard that they present? I feel that it would be best to support a public figure that stands by their word with action than one who says pretty words but does nothing or does not keep their promises. This is common occurence with many people in the public eye. People get upset and feel robbed when it happens even though they continually let it happen. Why are people shocked and why do we not learn as people? Because we focus more on the appearance and surface levels.

If we wish to change what standards are acceptable, we need to up our standards and think criticaly. Even with small purchases, think of the advertisment, packing, and presentation the product gives. Do your research and find out if it lives up to what it says. See if a politican actually supports the causes they say with policies and their own money. Doing so will help us move forward as a society and hold more companies and public figures accountable for what is presented. Don't take information as fact without your own research and don't support someone or something based on a pretty face or appearance. It is worth your time to search for the truth and look below the surface to find the truth. We, as a society, need to focus on substance and less on what something or someone appears to be.
