Modern society is rightfully criticized for our seemingly endless quest to aquire more and more material possessions. Many individuals seek pleasure and happiness through shopping, buying, and hoarding away items for which they have no immediate use. Others struggle to sell, donate, or throw away items which are no longer useful to them. Our lives, it seems, are controlled, to a significant extent, by the things we own which, in turn, limits our ability to move and exist feeely in the world. However, most of us have never stopped to consider the countless consequences of our materialistic tendencies.

Since graduating high school, I have moved more times than I can count. I hate moving. While I've lived in the same place for over six years, there are still several boxes in my house that I have yet to unpack. The fact of the matter is that I have way too much stuff! I plan to move again later this year but I have yet to begin the task of sorting through and purging any of my possessions; it feels entirely overwhelming! I am a product of our materialistic society. While I am now much more conscientious about what I buy and bring into my home, I struggle a great deal with letting go of the things I no longer need. Lately, I feel more like my belongings own me rather than the other way around. I hate the weight of feeling as though I can't move freely in the world because I have a semi-truck's worth of belongings that I need to bring with me. Honestly, sometimes I wish my house would burn down so that I wouldn't have to worry about what to do with all of my belongings. 

I care a great deal about doing my part to limit the toll that humans are placing on the earth. Younger generations appear to understand the association between materialism and the climate crisis. More and more young people are committed to shopping in secondhand stores and buying/selling used clothing online. I see this as one possible solution to my own struggles with downsizing and reversing my own materialistic misdeeds of the past. 

If I could have a mulligan, I would only buy or borrow what I need. We, quite literally, need no more than that. Further, so many people have gone bankrupt or ruined their credit while acquiring things that they hoped would make them "happy". I'm pretty sure bankruptcy has led to noone's happiness! When our focus is on consuming, buying, and owning, we miss so much of the beauty of the human experience such as our relationships and experiences. Society and our earth would be far better off if we all collectively agreed move away from our materialistic tendencies. Heck, we might even all start getting along better!





