"The Ugly Duckling" is a fairytale most children are told at one point or another in their lives. The idea is to teach children that apperances are not all there is to a person. As people grow, however, this idea is forgotten thanks to colorful advertisments, magazines plastering slandering articles about looks, and public figures constantly arguing over natural beauty or plastic enhancements. 
Images and impressions have too much of an influence on people. Brands, flashing colors, even memorable commercials rule the lives of individuals in society. In America, the commericals for the Super Bowl every year are almost as important as the actual game itself. The quality of the products doesn't matter. It isn't the taste, or the feel of the item that is remembered. These flashy looks leave an impression of awe and nostalgia. Apperance has more of a lasting impression than quality, or even quantity of a project. Geico has popular commercials, as almost everyone knows the gecko by sight, though the actual quality of the insurance company is not often discussed in company. The same goes for other brands that rely solely upon the popularity of their mascots, such as Progressive, M&M's, Liberty Mutual. Commericals now have become more like short films than anything else, as the impression that they leave is what will stick with a person. 
Body shaming is part of the problem when images and impresions are concerned. By condoning such shaming upon a person for their apperance, the idea that looks leave more of an impression than personality or morals is further ingrained into the minds of everyone watching. First impressions last forever, and images will never fade. 
Another great example that images and impressions have an effect on people is the popularity of the sex work industry. Sites such as Only Fans, Porn Hub, Feet Finder, and even Youtube on occassion prove that people put more thought into apperance than anything else. The images found on these sites never fully disappear, and they follow their creators for the rest of their lives. Individuals may have partaken in this industry at a younger age, in need of money, or simply because they enjoyed the career. In the end, however, they will never be able to escape these images, nor the impressions they leave behind on other people. 
A current trend on Tiktok right now is "He/she/they are a(n) X but-" in which a person designates a number to someone based upon their looks, then adds a caviat. Some individuals will overlook any and all problems because the person being spoken about is a 9 or a 10. Others may demote a person from a 10 to a 2, or a 3, based upon these caviats. The point of the game, however, is to show how much the physical apperance of a person matters in the overall situation of dating. 
Incels, a popular topic online and in real life, are another terribly great example of the importance that impressions have on people. Due to their attitude and the words they use, the vocabulary associated with them can often cost another person a date or the benefit of the doubt. "Good Guy" or "Traditional" can immediantly set a person to cringe because of the association with the incels. This proves impressions can be influenced by outside factors as well. 
The world has become so numb to travesties and tradgies that the image of blood, or children harmed, or mass murders on the news can be viewed one moment while a show about a talking dog or a counting vampire can be watched in the next. This is because these images are so common place that the impression they leave is nonexistent. Attention is kept by disturbing images, but those images can only be distrubing if they are considered to be rare, impossible, out of reach. 
The question makes me think about the difference between Stephen King and R.L. Stine. Both are authors in the horror genre. King is known for outlandsih books with weird plots, nightmare fuel for people of all ages. Stine, however, is known for wanting his readers to understand that the events of his books could never happen in real life. The importance of this distinction is that Stine's books are memorable. The images on the front are well known, and the stores inside leave such an impression that multiple generations are able to share their mutual love for the books. By writing stories that could never happen, but still hold the attention of the readers, Stine proves the importance of impressions. His books can begin readers on their path in horror. They may grow and move on, but they will always remember where they started. 
Color. Flashing lights. Loveable mascots. These elements prove that impressions and images have a major effect upon people. It goes against everything that people are taught as children, through stories such as "The Ugly Duckling", or that adults may study in classic literature like "The Marriage of Sir Gawain and Dame Ragnelle". These stories are meant to highlight the importance of looking past the surface, of not settling only for the images nor the impressions they leave, but are quickly forgotten when the principles are questioned in reality. Images leave impressions, impressions turn from opinions to fact, and once that pipeline has been in effect, there is no turning back. Reality is loosing it's importance and it's hold by the day. 


