In life, many things are not black and white and there is no clear cut answer just like when considering whether to use cooperation or intense rivalry at work. Since so much of our time is spent at work, it is important to have a methodical and well thought out approach. The more thought put into the way you conduct yourself and perform your duties the more efficient you can be and are less likely to run into troubles. So that begs the question, should you be cooperative at work or should you take a more compeititive approach? Let's take a look at the pros and cons of each and compare how one may be more beneficial over the other starting with the competitive approach.

So you are at work, you work in a team or perhaps in a larger group setting or even within an office space at your own cubicle. Your pay may be dependant on your performance or you may even get bonuses if your department achieves certain milestones. As mentioned before, there is often no clear answer as to which approach is better, competition or cooperation. If your performance depends on a group you may not want to take a compeititive approach, but if your performance is individually based and not dependant on your peers, a more compeitive approach may be more beneficial. For example, sharing certain tricks and trade secrets with coworkers may give them an edge they otherwise wouldn't have ultimately hurting your own standing. In this case, you would be better off keeping your tricks and secrets close to the chest and using them to gain an edge over your coworkers. So to sum up, you would benefit from assessing your situation at work and utilizing a competitive approach if you are performance is not dependant on your peers and is indivdually based.

Let's take a look at the other side of the coin, cooperation. If you assess your work situation and you determine that your performance is group based or dependant on your other team members it would be more beneficial to take a cooperative approach. In this case, if you learn of a new trick or develop a method for doing things that is better than the old one you may benefit yourself by benefiting the group as a whole which would seem to indicate your better off sharing your progress with your team members. You would want your team to be as well equipped for the job as possible and sharing ideas and new ways of doing things with them will lift the group up as a whole and a rising tide lifts all boats. That is why you are better off in a group or team environment being cooperative rather than competitive. As an antidote, I will mention I personally saw more success when taking an approach that prioritized cooperation as most jobs require working within a group of peers or even a specific team.

To take a skeptical look at these ideas, one might offer a counter argument that a cooperative approach may be best even in an individually based performance setting. That approach may prioritive your company as a whole rather than individual performance and this is a choice that some may choose to make. Likewise, you may want to take a competitive approach even in a group or team based setting. This may result in rubbing your coworkers the wrong way and you likely wont make many friends but nonetheless, it is an option. Some benefits of taking this approach may be that you will be less distracted by conversations with your peers as they likely will not like you very much and while it may be more lonley you may work better on your own even in a team. These approaches ultimately come down to personal choice and the context of the job is an important factor when making that choice but as stated before, there is often no clear cut or black and white approach. In life and work, many things are grey and the line is not clear.

So which approach will you decide to take? Will you assess the type of environment you work in or diregard it when making your choice? The possible approaches vary on a case by case basis and you may not want to take a methodical approach, but if you do, you will want to start with assessing the type of role and setting that you work in. From there, it is a matter of deciding which approach you want to take, cooperative or competitive. It seem cooperation is more beneficial when working within group settings for the reasons mentioned above, and competition is better when working independantly in a non-team based environment. Which approach you take will depend entirely on you but I suggest using this method of examining your work environment and tailoring your approach to match.
