     Could  you  be  truly  happy  by  focusing  on someone  elses  happiness?  Some say  this  is  the  only  way  to  actually acheive  a  personal  state  of  authentic  happpiness. Initially  this idea  can  be  as  more  of  a cliche  than  an  actual  path  to  personal happinness.  But  happiness  itself  is  more  of  a  fluid  situation,  a  marathon,  then  an actual  destination.  By  working  towards  instilling  this  good  feeling  in  another,  as  a side  effect  begin  to  be  rewarded  with  this  seemingly  unattainable  state.  In  turn,  makes  the  emotinal  well-being,  the  happiness  something  that  grows  and  thrives while  strying  to  give  this,  not  take  it.
     Happiness itself  can  seem  like  a  mirage. Like trying  to  catch  smoke  is  easier  then  actually  being  truly,  deep  down,  unquestioningly  happy. By  focusing  on  our  own, we  tend  to  go  to  far  in  one  direction  or  another. This  leads  often  to  fighting  with  ones self. "If  only  I  had  this". "If  only  they  would  act  like  this". "If  only  I  this  would happen". Etc,  Etc.  Etc. When  focusing  on  ourselves  it will  always  be  that  ONE  more thing  we  need  to happen  to  attain  a  state of  'happy'. But  then  it's  something  else  we need.  Everytime.  Forever  perpetuating the endless cycle of never quite getting where we're trying to go.
    This  idea  made  me  look  at   various religions, charities, and community programs. The most succesful, the most pure are lead by men and women who are truly devoted to their respective causes. And the findings are staggering. The heads of these organizations who are true and authentic are actually happy. Deep within themselves. When the question is put to them on how they keep their emotions steady and pure, happy, the answer is almost identical. Basically they steer the question away from themselves and their own good mental state and begin to go into detail of their mission. The people they're trying to support, to improve the lives of others. Complete energy put into the well being and quality of life in others.
     The surprising reasons people from all walks of life are 'happy' and how they acheive this can be best ascribed to how a windmill works....The fans spin. Constant. The more they spin, the more energy is generated and stored. Be a windmill. When the fan blades are not rotating, the fan itself cannot expect to generate energy. When each of us are not helping to improve the lives of others, we can't expect to be truly happy. As the fan spins the motion becomes automatic and an amazing amount of power is created by doing the thing most natural to the fan. If and when society collectivley works toward contributing to others, unconditionally, our happiness power will be generated by doing the thing that comes most natural to a community. As a group or as an individual making selfless sacrifices without thinking twice, we will be filled and generate our most primal of needs. To be truly happy with ourselves by doing for others. Make someone happy, be happy as a result. The simplist explainations are usually the most effective.
