Although many think competition is the best way for success to occur, I think much more can be accomplished through the use of cooperation. In this essay, I will adress three reasons why cooperation is superior to competition in obtaining the best, and most enduring, results. These reasons are as follows; a wider pool of ideas and solutions, the ability to undertake more complex tasks, and a more positive morale for those involved.

First, I would like to discuss how cooperation can lead to a wider pool of ideas and solutions than competition can. When you are competing with others, you are stuck with your own ideas and are more focused on having the most success rather than what ideas may actually be the most beneficial for the problems at hand. Often times, cooperation involves working with many others and coming up with solutions that everyone can agree on. With many people, you are going to be confronted with many ideas and potential solutions. This means that you are much more likely to find the best, and longest-lasting, solutions rather than if you were just focused on creating the most "successful" idea.

Second, when cooperating, you are much more likely to be able to complete more complex tasks and ideas than you would be able to if you were involved in a competition and trying to come up with solutions on your own. Since cooperation involves working together with others, you can break complex tasks into smaller pieces assigned to different individuals, thus making it much more feasible and likely to be able to successfully carry out more complex tasks and ideas. Thus, creating better solutions and outcomes for problems than you would otherwise be able to do on your own.

Third, cooperation would contribute to better morale and more positive outlooks/emotions than competition would. When competing, individuals often face high levels of stress trying to come up with the best solution and to be deemed the most successful. Whilest cooperation can spur more positive emotions due to the workload and stress being divied out to multiple individuals rather than falling on a single individual. This would create a more positive work environment and better balance and emotions to those working on the problem.

Some may say that competition increases motivation to do well at solving problems and completing tasks. This, however, is a false belief. Competition can lead to much higher rates of burnout and work fatigue than cooperation does due to increased levels of stress and larger workloads. Some may also say that competition can create a more invigorating and enjoyable sense of satisfaction in completing projects and coming up with solutions. However, I feel as if coooperation would lead to more of this than competition would due to the ability to come up with better solutions and the satisfaction from working as a time and coming up with the best possible solutions.

Overall, I would say that cooperation leads to much, much higher rates of success than competition. Individuals involved in cooperation feel much more positive emotions, less stress, and come up with better solutions than those involved in a competitive workplace/competition. Cooperation should be utilized much more in society and in the workplace if real beneficial and successful ideas are to be utilized. This would create a much more efficient and successful world in which only the best ideas and solutions are utilized.
