"Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people" is a critical question because, often, images and impressions are the only information that a prospective buyer, for example, may have. When keeping in mind that many significan purchases are made independently prior to adulthood, it is easy to see why examining the effect of images and impressions on people, especially young people, is important. It is my opinion that images images and impressions don't have too much of an effect on people because the presentation of these simply mimics the process of natural selection that occurs in real interation.

Advertising has been criticized as misleading for inducing buyers by being pursuasive. An effective advertisement, though, simply reinforces the ideas that consumers have about the particular product and the overall product category. If this is not the case, for example, if a product is said to have attributes that the consumer finds hard to believe, it is unlikely that the consumer will find the advertising credible nor the product desirable. Generally speaking, the only surprise is how much of an anticipated quality a desired product has - not whether or not it has that quality.

When purchasing paper towels, for example, there are many options. While in the aisle viewing the packaging for these products, Bounty's "quicker picker upper" tagline may be noted even if the corresponding jingle isn't. The consumer that chooses this brand believes that the product will save them time as promised. The consumer is trusting that the product is more absorbant because many paper towel products are, not simply because this brand says so.

It must be acknowledged that the catchy phrase and tune may help convince the consumer to spend more for Bounty than for other brands. However, I believe that it will be the consumer's experience with other brands of paper towels that will be the most convincing. If a consumer is motivated to try the store's brand because it has a lower price, it is because the consumer has determined that the most absorbant product available isn't necessary to meet their needs. However, if the quality of the lower priced product doesn't meet the consumer's expectations, the makers of Bounty get the opportunity to win the customer because the store forfeit it. Thus, the advertising for Bounty can be said to play a significant role in the buying decision, but not to distort reality in any way.

To conclude, consumers of all ages should consume media carefully because it is influential while providing limited information. Memorable tunes and pleasant images can cause prospective buyers to make decisions that are more based on emotion than they may realize. However, this can also be said to be the case in real life. That is, we tend to become emotional if either disappointed by or happily surprised by the usefulness of a product. This emotional experience is magnified when considering how politicians and other public figures promote themselves to gain attention. For these reasons and more, images and impressions should not be viewed as having too much of an effect on people; people should be viewed as having the duty to consume media resposibly.

