Hello there. Today I am giving my opinion as to why I feel like images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.

In this present day and age, we as a nation of people often look and judge people, places and things by looking at their outward appearance being attracted to what we see as opposed to learning a little more about the qualities or lack thereof that lie beneath the surface.

Take for instance, you could be driving down the street and see a gorgeous but expensive looking car. While that car really speaks to your eyesight at the time as being a very sharp looking vehicle  you say to yourself, that car looks very good and I'm going to go and see about purchasing it. Without doing any background check to see what the maintenance would entail to keep such a beautiful car not only looking great but running great as well, you go to the dealership and make the purchase.

Several months have passed as now it is time to have some routine maintenance done on your new and expensive vehicle, and you drop the car off the delearship to run some errands whilst your car is being tended to. You receive a call to let you know that your cars maintenance is now complete and you can come and pay your maintenance bill and collect your vehicle. 

You arrive back at the dealership to pay your maintenance bill and the receptionist gives you your paperwork and you look very shockingly at the bill because the fee is three times what you normally have paid in the past and you, quite frankly, were simply just not expecting such a large bill, but nevertheless, you pay your bill and retrieve your vehicle and you're on your way to your next destination not so good of a mood as you were when you first arrived at the dealership.

The moral of this story, as mentioned above, is that yes things, people and places, at first glance will and may catch our eyes because of an outward appearance, but we must practice some patience by getting to know a little bit more of what these things, people or places will entail to keep them looking great if we choose to make a decision to give our attention, time and money to them!
