Happiness, it is something almost all of humanity has a want for but can be one of the most illusive things for a variety of reasons. Wether it is something mental, physical, economical, a personal hang up, or just a personality trait in general. Everyone has a different way and set of things they strive for to be happy. Some may call it selfish but the happiness that interests me the most is happiness of the self. That all encompassing glow of someone who is at peace with who they are are strive to keep that dopamine high by whatever means they can. It may be called narisisitic to focus on themselves but they don't care, because all they need is their own happiness.

Wether it is just a lazy day at home, eating a pizza while playing video games or just sitting down and enjoying a good book with some coffee, that is the perfection of happiness that some might struggle to get. Medical and consumer sciences has gone out of its way to make medications to help produce that chemical that produces that wonderous thing that can be just out of reach due to chemical imbalances in the body, dopamine. Mother nature has provided us with things in our everyday lives that can provide that chemical hit we need, like a little thing called caffiene. 

Yes, some things that can produce that little ball of happiness can be self destrucive in their own way, like a cigarette or a bottle of alcohol, but what isn't a danger to the self nowadays? You have to learn moderation and work on it, what doesn't kill you makes you stronger and happier in the long run. The most important thing is trying. Nothing lost if nothing is gained but you have to put yourself out there to at least try. People can come and go but that feeling where something puts that smile on your face can be yours if you just find that thing that puts you there. Even in the darkest of nights you need to remember it will soon be a bight shining day.

While some might say that happiness is helping others, I say if that is your reasoning for helping others, it isn't for them, it is for YOU. Each person is their own self sustaining organism and that helping high you get is just a byproduct of it. By no means is every man an island completely but land bridges between islands can only go so far, focusing on the self and what makes you happy is the purest essence of what it means to be happy. A lifelong friend or lover can die, but you will remain afterwards and will have to find something or someone new.

A life well lived is one lived by the self for the self. It may be just a chemical in the brain but it is also way of life. Focusing on the good and the bad, on the things that can bring you joy to you can be the thing that elevates you to a high plane and improve everything. You can find love, a new career, a hobby you enjoy, something that is just a little material thing that keeps you going, all of these things are just examples of what happiness of the self can do if you follow that path. This is the path that I have chosen for myself and it has made all the difference.
