A huge aspect of human life is our ability to feel emotions - sadness, excitement, upset, anger, love - and the power they sway over our decisions and life choices. The most significant of the emotions is also the most confusing - happiness. Sometimes it feels as though it is going to burst out of your chest, and other times you're sure you'll never feel it again. The path to happiness has been described by many people in many ways. Two of the most prevalent notions are that happiness is found in obtaining your personal goals and that personal happiness comes from filling others with happiness. But which is right? I will demonstrate that the only path to happiness comes from your achieving your goals with three simple truths; happiness is a reward for the effort it takes to reach a goal, you cannot be happy if the tools for happiness are not in your hands, and you cannot know what will make others happy or what happiness will lead them to do.

How can you motivate yourself to work nights and weekends, attend as many workshops and seminars as you can, and strive to gain new skills? To reach success! Nobody works their life away because they want a static life without garnering more respect and reward corresponding to their contributions. And happiness plays a huge part in the drive to move upward and onward. Deciding you want something usually is followed by a lot of difficulty and exertion, but after you've overcome all challenges and reached your goal the happiness is overwhelming. And the fact that you earned your happiness only makes it stronger.

Happiness is always in one owns hands regardless of circumstances. If you expect happiness to drop into your lap, you'll be sitting around unhappy for the rest of your life. If you want happiness, you have to be in control - nobody else can truly know what you want in life and what brings you the most joy. Don't leave your happiness in the hands of others - take it as a personal responsibility and let yourself discover how great your life can be if you can identify what you want and put in the work to obtain it - only relying on yourself the whole time.

The idea that making others happy will in turn bring you happiness. While this may be true in some cases, this philosophy has a glaring problem - the other people. Some people will never be happy no matter what you do for them. You may be able to make others happy. So what? You have no idea how the people you delivery happiness to will respond. Many people do thoughtful things for loved ones only to receive lukewarm responses. You can't be happy depending on someone else to make it so.


