There is a famous saying: "Money can't buy happiness." Many people complain about consumer culture and how materialistic our holidays have become, like the way that Christmas seems to be all about gifts rather than deeper meanings of either religion or family togetherness. It is a much vilified concept in today's society. The book and movie "Fight Club" railed against materialism in today's society, featuring a main character who began with so many things from so many catalogs. One could argue that it's trendy to condemn consumerism, even while participatinng in it ourselves.

It is often the wealthy who say a lot of these things, people who have all of the comforts they need in their lives, along with money to spare for luxury. People with plenty of material wealth often use this anti-materialistic notion in order to tell others less fortunate than themselves that they should be satisfied with what little they have, and they should not want more than that. Few of these people are giving much of their own wealth away, despite this criticism of consumerism. They tell low income people not to want more, and to be grateful, without sharing or donating much of themselves. It is also inescapable.  One cannot choose not to participate in the production and consumption of goods. Materials today are often designed to break down over time, forcing consumers to replace products that might once have been possible to repair. It is not free to survive in society.

It's true that holidays should be a celebration of loved ones, and perhaps one's religious beliefs if they have any. It's also true, from the perspective of the wealthy, that having a little bit more money or another gadget, is not likely to make them much happier. But a poor family getting their first computer will find their world changed, having access to greater career and learning as well as social opportunities. There is nothing wrong with those who have little wealth wanting more. There is something wrong with people who have excess not being charitable. Karl Marx's Conflict Theory is considered materialistic, and is very critical of income inequality among workers. The people with the most money in society, who have the most material wealth, tend to do far less work than the people who live in poverty. Today's poor often work multiple jobs for small wages that often don't even meet the minimum wage, thanks to independent contracts and the gig economy. Ronald Reagan's myth of the welfare queen is also largely a myth, as it is not easy to qualify for government assistance, and anyone who has received it will be able to assure you, it is not enough to give them the luxurious life that Reagan led many conservatives to imagine.

People who struggle with money, especially those below the poverty line, should not be shamed for wanting more. People with more should be more willing to donate and help other people in need. Unfortunately the "American Dream" is largely a myth. There are no billionaires who got to where they are without help, and without exploiting those beneath them. They take trips to space while people literally freeze to death without a roof over their heads. The wealthy make ice cream and hot dogs with gold flakes while there are children who go hungry because their only meals are free ones they get while attending school. There is valid criticism of materialism in our society, but we must direct this at the right people: the ultra rich. A person who finds themselves criticizing materialism today might consider taking a look at their own life, and determine if they really need and want everything they have, or if perhaps they can part with some of their own materials for the benefit of those who would be grateful to have them.
