How do you obtain happiness? Is it something that you can plan to obtain by reaching a goal? Or is it obtain by not planning to be happy and reaching happiness while trying to make somebody else happy? These are some really important questions you have to ask your self. Now, ask yourself these questions and find out if you're following any of those paths to happiness.
In my own experience, I have noticed that I'm usually looking to make other people happy. I believe that by doing that, I have actually achieve happiness in my life. I have learned that making other people happy make you happy along the way, specially the really important people in your life like husband/children, siblings, parents, etc. 
I've always given my best to try to provide everything for my children, to make my husband happy, to keep my parents, siblings and friends happy and I couln't be happier. Focusing on them instead of me have made me be unselfish. Being unselfish has made the focus of my life not to reach for my happinness by doing important things for me. Instead I have focus on achieving important things for other people. By making the other people in my life happy and seeing them happy has brought more happinness in my life than trying to achieve happinness  just for myselft.
I know it would probably make more sense for other people to try to reach for their own happiness instead of making other people happy. But I believe that just focusing on yourself would make you loose sight of all the important people in your life. Sure, you might be happy for a while, when you reach your goals and you have what you have worked hard to obtain. But once you notice that you're alone with that happiness and the important people around you might not be has happy as you, you're going to regret being so selfish.  You're going to regret that you didn't help other people reach their happiness together with you. By then it would be too late and you've would've spent your life reaching for a lonely happinness. 
I belive that it is very clear that once you forget about yourself, you will still achieve the best possible happinnes there is by focusing on making other people happy. The rewards that you collect when thinking about other people first are just incredible. Most of the people that love you would also be very happy by seeing you happy, so they will also give back on that effort so that you become as happy as they are. Let's go out there and make somebody happy and you'll start seeing how happy that makes YOU! 
