As human beings in the current age of media immersion, we are subjected to to an obscene amount of images that we are expected to take in.  Our brain is supposed to quickly process what we see, and move onto the next thing.  We are overwhelmed with advertisements, articles, pictures, blogs, search results, and many more forms of media, even when we aren't specifically looking for it.  We catch billboards when we drive or take public transit.  We see advertisements as we scroll our social media.  Even our fast food meals are linked up with famous people, with their images all over the food packaging.  We have reached an inescapable bubble of force-fed images that don't always portray the truth.  These images distort our reality; making us think a product is good just because we recognize the celebrity that endorses it.  The distortion also lies in the images themselves, with photo manipulation being so easy to use.  

A child not even in school yet can recognize popular logos, and recall their names.  Brand recognizition begins at a very early age, even when parents aren't aware of it.  They catch TV commercials with their favorite toys and shows, and then are able to locate them in the stores.  It doesn't matter to the child what the actual product is; they saw it on TV, and it looked fun, so they want it.  They don't understand money, or how good a product is; only that it exists and they don't have it.  It is very easy to manipulate kids in this way, but what we don't realize is as adults, we do the same exact thing.

We find objects that are too good to be true, presented to us in suggestive ways.  Think back to the days of infomercials; those items always exceeded our expectations, and showed us real demonstrations of amazing products.  Of course we want the knife that device that will take our headache away when applied "directly to the forehead."  The smiling people on TV look relieved as their problems are solved, and this is the image that we remember as we pick up the phone to order.  Did we stop to wonder what is in this product?  It didn't matter, because the actor on TV told us it works.  That impression stays with us, and with our dissapointment when the product doesn't actually make us feel any better.

It seems almost a goal that a product finds a celebrity to endorse it.  They try to find someone that fits their brand, so that others can relate to them.  If a kid's favorite sports star is shown in a commercial selling shoes, they will want to buy them.  Adults do the same exact thing, assuming that the sports star actually uses the product on the field.  They buy them, hoping to up their own performance, and of course it doesn't work.  The smiling sports star in the advertisements had the product long enough just to take the picture.

Anyone who is famous wants to hide their flaws.  If you see a new tube of makeup that has a beauitful celebrity with flawless skin on it, you'll think that's how your skin will end up.  Chances are, there was a lot of photo manipulation going on, and that celebrity is just as pimply as you.  It's unfortunate that you have to learn the hard way by spending money.  This image is one of the most harmful, because a person can get easily upset if the results aren't what they see on the box.  

Images that are put in our way to catch our attention, and sell product, aren't truthful.  The bottom line is money, and if it takes erasing the wrinkles around a celebrity's eyes to sell age-defying cream, then they will do it.  It doesn't matter what age you are, advertisements are made to catch your attention.  Companies put a lot of money into making you percieve their product the way they want you to.  This seriously changes your purchasing habits, and how you view any product you buy.  The more attracitve the packaging and the advertising, the better the product might work.  Images can be a dangerous tactic companies use to dramatically affect the way people buy and consume their products.
