Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition? First we need to understand the meaning of cooperation as per the dictionary which means working together with somebody else to achieve something or the action of someone who is being asked to help to achieve something or objective which would provide satisfation or attain the organizational goal. Second is meaning of competition as per the dictionary is an organized event in which people try to win something. Both the terms provide substantial amount of explanation how people could achieve success. We shall now discuss in detail both the aspect.

People achieve more success by cooperation: As we know a famous saying unity is strength. So we tend to discuss that if we are provided some cooperation in our activity, we have a high chance of achieving success because first of all the entire work load is divided among the other people who also tend to provide their best in achieving the desired success. There is a cooperation between all these people because they know for the fact that they are here to achieve some goal, some objective and if they tend to fall in at some place there is someone who would be there to assist them at any given point of time. That is cooperation, working collaberatively to attain goal. I might tend to thinkin one line but if there are different people we will have different minds and mindset which will think otherwise and or out of the box which might give us a better and feasible solution which one might not think of. Also cooperation will lead to diversity of the people and in this way we could learn and be more diversified in our approach. There will be an environment of achieveing success as like minded people would be working together to achieve a common goal. 

People achieve more success bt cooperation: There are many people on this planet who tend to work alone acting as an individual contributor to the project or objective. These set of people have a mind of competition always and because of the same they work alone. We could not say it as a negative aspect because every individual is different. Some like to work in a group which other wants to work individually because they don't want any kind of interference in their job and or activity they are performing. They are self confident people with high morals and focus. Also when in competition most of the people tend to be more focused, more attentive, more planned so because of the same they tend to achieve success because they give themselves a reason to work harder or smarter because they know for the fact that if they would not be able to perform well, they would might not be part of that organization in future as they would have not produced the desired result as expected from them.

To conclude the same I would like to demonstrate few things of cooperation and competition. We know that during the competition we need to keep others at lower level than we are at and in cooperation we have to lift others up so that everyone is on the same page so that the goals could be achieved. It is also known fact that through cooperation we learn our competitors. In cooperation we are socially involved in a work however in competition we are not so socially involved as others in the competition are our rivals. We have to win them over. This topic could be discussed over and over again with someone supporting cooperation as the best way people could achieve success or competition is the best way to achieve success. We have to decide among ourselves what we are comfortable in, whether it is the competition through which we could achieve success or through cooperation we could achieve the desired result. In cooperation the entire set of personnel are motivated as they get the desired support from their team members and othjers can pitch into the work when required however in competition one gets motivation to surpass others and demonstrate that he/she is a better understanding of the work and can achieve the desired organizational goal by their single effort and with minimum timeframe. This will lead to cost cutting also because only one person is involved in the activity.

Cooperation and competition should be healthy way to achieve success which is desired. One can take any path to set himself apart. It is upto one which is chosen and the time decides which one acts better than the other. It is not dictated by the people. 
