Have you ever heard the term, "Dont' judge a book by its cover?".  I think most of us have, because it is a little cliche.  I just want to set the scene for what I want to discuss today.  It is a topic about appearances, whether that be a person, product, or service.  We often get caught up on how good something looks, and are many times disappointed if this isn't the reality.  For example, when you meet someone famous in person on their day off sans makeup.  It just isn't the same image as what we built up, because we see in reality they are human just like everyone else.  

In our society we place a lot of emphasis on outward appearances.  Whether it be a person, product, or service there is an illusion that can sometimes cloud reality.  For example, if you look at many celebrities or individuals social media accounts, everything seems perfect.  We always put our best face forward, but the reality is usually quite the opposite.  These images can have a negative effect on how we see ourselves.  If we compare each other to models or public figures, then normal individuals seem mediocre at best.  

I would like to challenge the status quo on this issue, and let's truly examine the perceived image for the reality.  Our society needs to get back to the basics, and just be real human being flaws and all.  I think this would be better for our mental health and well being.  It is alright if someone or product is flawed.  It is afterall what makes us unique.  

We also need to be aware that we want to create a self brand that is authentic.  It is easy to pretend to be someone you are not.  However, in reality people can only hold up those appearances for so long, and eventually the truth comes out.  The same with product advertising.  Companies need to be realistic about what they are selling.  Placing an item in a bright shiny box, doesn't necessarily mean the contents inside are perfect.  There would be a lot more brand loyalty if companies were more genuine and honest about what they were promoting.  The same is true for individuals. 

We need to stop relying on social media or advertisements, and truly just be realistic with one another.  I mean we were all put on this earth for a reason, and we can choose how we live.  Let's stop judging the book by its cover, and just be real with one another.  It is time to stop hiding behind fake advertisements, fancy clothes, and makeup.  Just be the natural human you were born to be, and let's just start doing good.  Maybe next time you go to post on social media.  Stop and think is what I portray posed, or is it reality?  That way, if more people were their authentic self, flaws and all. We would all feel more comfortable just the way we are, and our society would start to put less emphasis on outward appearances. Let's just start keeping it real.                                                                                                                     

