In an effort to examine how true happiness is obtained from person to person, we have to first look at what motivates each person.  I do not believe that there is a one size fits all answer for this question.  I will approach this through what makes me personally happy but will also acknowledge that what may make me happy may not make the next person happy.

For me personally, I am happiest when I am focused on achieving my own goals.  They do not necessarily have to be big goals.  I am happiest when I am accomplishing things, small or large.  We took a seminar at my workplace years ago to determine our top 5 strengths and my number one strength was achiever.  I take great pleasure in making lists and crossing them off as I accomplish things.  The bigger the list and the more that I am able to cross off the list, the higher my satisfaction and the more happy I am.  When I am happy from focusing and achieving my goals, I am more able to be happy for others.  I relate this to going through an airplane takeoff when the flight attendants tell you to put the mask on your face before placing the mask on another's face.  By taking care of and focusing on my own goals, I am better able to then focus on others and what makes them happy because I am in a good place internally.

While achiever is my top strength, I also recognize that others have different top strengths and different ways of getting there.  For example, my coworker who I have worked close with for 15 years took the same training and found that empathizer is her top strength.  She gets happiness and satisfaction from helping others achive their goals/aspirations.  Her main focus in life is watching her two sons grow and thrive and running them to their sports while cheering for them on the sidelines.  This is when she is happiest.  It is hard to have a conversation with her without it turning to her boys and what they are doing. She rarely does anything for herself but it doesn't matter because that is not what drives her.  

As anyone can see, what makes one person happiest does not make the next as demonstrated with the two opposite approaches from above.  It was actually a very interesting seminar to see how my different coworkers and friends have completely different strengths and how we all still find a way to work together in harmony.   I think that in the end, whatever makes somebody happy is something that they should continue to persue because regardless of how we get there, the world is a better place when more people are happy.  The different approaches also promotes different thoughts and ideas and celebrates the diversity between all of us. 
