Competition can be healthy, giving us motivation or a drive, not only in the circumstance the competition is set in, but in other aspects of life as well.
Though competitions may bring out the pett side of many, overall without competition we as children never would have learned basic concepts in life early on or perhaps at all. Furthermore, competition awakes an inner thirst for each of us to strive to be our very best. For example, spelling bee's (or spelling competitions), throughout adolesence taught us to not be sore losers or winners, and gave us a goal of persoal aachievement with each correct spelling; as well as teaching us, in my opinio, to not crack under pressure- to be able to be put on the spot in front of our peers. This for me I know helped me overcome my stage fright. 
As any of us had succeeded in each word spelled, this was internalizing an inner thirst for more knowledge, as well a sense of personal confidence. Competitions in work environments push coworkers to perorm efficiently, and quickly- meeting new goals in a work environment while creating a healthy way of enjoying a healthy spark at work, without too much distraction potentially prventing us from completing our jobs. Not to mention any incentive is always a bonus and fun way to push eachother and ourselves to be the best we can be, giving us the toos we need to be able to keep things at a healthy balance - self control factors that are instilled in us.
Some may point out circumstances when competition or competing with others - has gotten out of hand, or causing one to lose sight of the main goal(s) and or responsibilities deligated; it is true theres always a risk factor; perhaps your work does not get done, or personal wants or needs are not met. In that light one must also acknowledge and take into account ones personal experience and/or track record with rivalry scenarios. As well as ones personality. If someone has little or no experience in a competitive situation, this could be due to underlying self essteem issues, fears of failure, and for some losing sight, or getting out of hand could potentially have been prevented if earlier on in their lives healthy competitions were introduced sooner. Giving them the self control, ability to multitask, problem solve, and give them the critical thinking they need throughout their lives. 
Overall, these things that are instilled in us, pushing ourselves to overcome, and conquer are all things that help us achieve balance and happiness. 
To be able to be a team player in life is important, that's where our flexibility and versatilitie come into play, but competition, and that inner fire we have to be someone that can compete- is to be able to hold ones own. To have the strong headedness neaded when we have no one to lean on or to help us through. It's a sense of inner strenth, knowing you can overcome any obstacle that presents itself. Making people achieve personal and professional goals, succeeding in life. You achieve more once you've seen what you can do, while knowing you are versatile, and can adapt to anything, whether it be standing strong, or knowing you are also capable of cooperation and being a team player. To cooperate is to compromise, or to expect a fair shared outcome, when in most circumstances, you can hope for the best, but in the end the work load, whether it be in a work environment or otherwise - is not always what it should be giving us a false sense of expectation. To have a competitive outlook is to believe and achieve.
