I believe that people are happiest if they first focus on their own personal goals and happiness.  Then they are in the position to offer help to others, which expands their happiness.

If a person is not happy and satisfied in their own life, they do not have the wherewithal to help others nearly as well.  A drowning person is no help to another drowning person.  On a flight, one is admonished to apply one's own air mask first before helping others.  Being in a stable, strong position enables one to offer help to others, including guidance to happiness.

It can be argued that happiness can be found in helping others and that is often true.  But it can be most effective if the helper is already happy themselves.  They have the experience and wisdom with which to actually help others toward happiness.

When I have wanted to pursue a goal which I believe would enhance my happiness, I have looked to the experience and wisdom of others who have already achieved the goals and happiness that I want.  I know they can provide examples and guidance to help me find my own way.  I don't look for those who still have the same issues I have.  It is best if the person has actually overcome the very issues I have to achieve the happiness I desire.  They have the best empathy and understanding to help me find my way. They first focussed on themselves and then offered their experience and knowledge to others.

Helping others is a noble and worthy pursuit. Focussing only on oneself can be seen as selfish.  But it is not selfish to first attend to goals and happiness for oneself when this is the place from which one has the most power to achieve positive ends.  Self enhancement enlarges the potential to enhance others.

A clear, healthy example of success and happiness provides a great motivation and hope to others that they too can achieve the same.

One must first focus on achieving goals and happiness for oneself to allow the fulfillment necessary to offer assistance to others and the higher goals for humanity.


