My children probably have more toys at their disposal than most others from so called third world countries. Even still, they probably don't have as much as their peers. Regardless of how this effects their long term mental health it is a marker of our neighborhood, and the life we live in the United States. In a sentance, it's a materialistic lifestyle. A lifestyle that isn't afforded to children the world over but does that make it inherently wrong? I believe it is a crutch but not one that needs to be removed. Does this mean we should be marked as over consumers and polluters?

Americans are living in the wealthiest society with luxuries that were probably only afforded to kings, if even then. As in, we have running water at our disposal, food available all day every day, leisure and distraction beyond measure, as well as countless ways to find relaxation and activities. In the worst cases it may lead to drug addictions, desnesitization, ADD or ADHD, etc. but are all these plastic toys to blame? No. It may predispose them to not understanding a life of less but that is not there fault. They may not know a life where they struggle to find water and food, but does a life of struggle put them in a better position than what the experience now? No. It's simply different. 

The real trouble is the journey humans take from moving beyond their means in to a well adjusted life, whatever that may mean. In its base sense I mean that one where they can fulfill their desires to create and to sustain their own selves as well as providing a benefit to the society around them. For us, that usually means a job, paying taxes, and purchasing goods. The goods we purchase help provide jobs for others, so they in turn can do the same. It is a cycle that can't easily be stopped. Yet, it is a cycle, the buying, acquiring, an using of goods, this cycle of materialism, that is behind our form of capitalism. Without which the very United States would not be the same. Therefore, I do not fault my children or believe their abunance creates a matarialistic lifestyle to their detrement, but helps them complete their patriotic duty and keep the neighborhood, the city, and the country afloat.

Certainly, being too matarialistic may mean an over consumption. Yet, isn't this problem found in societies where abundance isn't the normative? Of course, physical things aren't the only self numbing agent at our disposal. Sex has run into the ground many lives. So has the dedication to travel, to explore the unknown, to ignre the world and live as a hermit. All things, when not use in their appropriate manner, can lead to addiction and can just as deftly cause shipwreck of ones life. Meaning, that our pursuits, if left unchecked, will create horrible task masters and cause a person to forgo their responsibilities to their society, their loved ones, and even their own health. Therefore, materialism isn't to blame for societies ills.

The people making and using these goods aren't our only concern. What of our mother nature. The earth. Isn't her finite resources being used up by all this needless creation of trinkets to be consumed and disposed of? Again, I say no. We certainly do benefit by finding inventive ways to take the wild and waste of this world and create something from it. We do even better to take those processes and make them sustainable. We would have no need to control the heat of this earth if we weren't polluting. However, we would also have no method of sustaing a population above 7 billion if we weren't. So, yes, we should take care to not needlessly pollute. We should use our creativity to find ways to make sustainable products. Yet it is in having these products, these material goods, that our children, and adults, can learn to explore and invent new methods to help solve the problems of tomorrow. 

It is possible to criticize a society for being too materialistic. Only if that society is constantly consuming without need or care for those around them. Both locally and globally. There certainly is a consumption that is so ego centric, so self concerned, that it leads to a death of oneself but that is usually not the case in most materialistic socities. Most of the time, between the work and toil of this world, people are consuming for creativity an relaxation. Creativity which bring advancement in technology, art, and relaxation which brings help to leisure. For example, creativity fosters a global community when art can be enjoyed the world over. Games, like soccor or the olympics have fans from every nation. Should we not think this is in part due to materialism?

Clearly, overconsumption and pollution, the death of a human and the death of our earth, are tremendously serious. Would that it be no human lost his life to consumption nor no turtle his life to a carlessly tossed straw. But, materialism isn't to blame for addiction or pollution but shall most likely be the very tools used to save them. Through advancements in creation we have doctors, space exploration, an stretched the human mind to expand the IQ. Through creation we have green initiatives and abilities to harness the wind and repair the ozone. Materialism may be the only thing that detrements of such a materialistic life. 
