"I get by with a little help with my friends... I'm gonna try with a little help from my friends!" We ALL know this classic Beatles song, and what a great song it is! But what a great concept as well, as I do believe that we as people - in communities, in business, in organizations, in groups of all sizes and interests - achieve more succes by cooperation, rather than competition. 

While I do believe the element of competition can be healthy in the right environment, that place is not anywhere trying to achieve a common goal or mission, anything for the betterment of all. Some may say that when you're all climbing to get to the top, everyone will get there faster - but really, that only breeds hostility. People end up stepping on each other to get up and in the end someone always loses. I'd say one of the most common environments you see this is in commision based sales teams - why have a team when everyone is only working for their own commison? That can't work healthily. In this case the company's main goal is to make money, but also pay their workers - the environment that could come from paying all employees a fair wage and not on commisson solely would make for a much more pleasant place to work, and therefore your employees are able to bring a much more pleasant customer experience, which finally makes for repeat customers and constant income. 

When we all work together - cooperate - to accomplish something wholly, things get done more efficiently, faster, and with more attention to detail. I believe this to mean succesful! This goes for nearly everything in life. From big to small circumstances. Consider the moon landing: a HUGE operation that could only be accomplished by a large team of the nations best scientists. And when we finally actually made it there - we still needed more than one astronaut to handle that space craft - it COULD NOT be done alone. So something as large as that to a child scraping their knee and then a friend coming along then giving them a hug to feel better and walking them to the nurse to get a bandaid, that happens faster with assitance from even just one friend. And so, in closing, we definitely get by with a lot of help from our friends. I believe the world could be a better place if we all just realized and embraced this thought pattern. 
