  Today's society has been criticized for being materialistic.  Our society is made up of various age groups but one thing they all have in common is acquiring materialistic items.  When I talk about society. I specifically mean the American society.  I state this because as Americans, it seems like our national past time is shopping and spending money.

  Growing up in the 1970's, I was raised in a middle class neighborhood.  I would say that my families earnings were less than our neighbors.  Regardless, my family got by and we had all the stuff that a middle class family had; a car, TV, refrigerator, washer and dryer machines, etc.  I had toys growing up but not as many as the neighbor kids.  It seemed back in those days that the better off families had the fancy cars, multiple TV, and lots of play things.  Reflecting back then, the area I grow up in had all the trade marks of a materialistic society.

  Fast forward to today.  Acquiring stuff is still something that our society views as prestigious.  Having the expensive German or Italian sports car is viewed by many as someone who has money.  I think today, we have become even more materialistic as a society since it is much easier to buy what you want over the internet.  There is more access to products, and paying and shipping for those items is common practice.  People buy what ever they desire and it is easy.  I have also noticed that this generation only seems to know how to make money by working and how to spend money.  It seems that financial planning is non-existent with this generation.  Instead of saving and investing their money, they just spend their money on materialistic things.  Therefore, I believe that this generation is much more materialistic than past generations.

  In conclusion, American society always seemed to be very materialistic.  Of course being one of the worlds riches countries, its citizens have lots of discretionary money to buy luxuries.  This discretionary money has also made accumulating of material goods very easy and has made America a very materialistic society.   
