Competition and cooperation are competing forces that many humans are familiar with. Starting in childhood, and extending through adulthood, we all experience interpersonal relationships through the lenses of these two opposing dynamics. Competition may have been the force that drove our species to the heights of cognition we now hold, but cooperation may have played an even more important role. It is cooperation between members of our species that drove advances in agriculture and decreased reliance on nomadic lifestyles in our past, collaboration which drives creativity and innovation in our present, and it will be a global understanding that will successfully hold our place on this planet into the future. 

Historically thinking, evolution is undestood as intense competition of the fittest. A race to support ones self and ones family to guarantee survival of progeny into the next generation. This process is inherently competitive, and played an important role in elevating homo sapiens to their current levels of population and cognitive functioning. However, once homo sapiens were established as a species on this planet, learned to use language, and tools, cooperation was the driving force behind our continued success as a species. With increased vocalizations, tool use, and ever growing brain development, our ancient relatives learned to warn each other of predators, to build shelters, and to begin to domesticate animals. Because of this group effort, we were able to move away from a unstable nomadic existence, into a lifestyle that provided more consistent access to food, security, and positive social relationships. The cooperation that strengthened our likelihood for survival in the past, continues to prove fruitful in our future. 

Efforts to promote group-think and collaboration within workplaces and groups are beneficial to these groups as a whole. While some companies may feel they should encourage competition to drive achievement, this can actually be detrimental to employee morale, as well as stifle willingness of employees to share their ideas resulting in poorer outcomes for the company. During research studies analyzing creativity in workplaces, companies who encouraged idea sharing and collaboration in group meetings had a higher number of unique ideas generated. Feeling encouraged to collaborate with others, especially those who are different as compared to competing with them drives successful ventures. 

As we continue into the future, insecurites plague us as a species. Economic inflation is growing, global warming is changing our habitats, and commercialization and industry are shrinking our natural landforms. Inequality and greed in a capitalistic society such as the United States is driving competition, resulting in very few controlling a majority of money and resources that would be better split more equally amongst many. As such, is more important than ever before that humans continue to understand the importance of collaboration and cooperation. By doing so, we can work together to create the world we wish to live in.

Competition has its place in human life, but is better kept for moments that do not have world or species-altering consequences. We, as humans, should think of the bolstering of our species through cooperative efforts in our past, the benefits of collaboration amongst teams, and of what we can accomplish if we think globally rather than individualistically. 


