     In a world where working is the main thing we do, it is inevitable that we will come to question our work behaviors and how they may impact the quality and effectiveness of the work we do. How do we make our work and the tasks within these jobs move more efficiently? A big piece of the debate around work behaviors is two sides of a coin: independently working or working in a team, which is more effective? Considering each side of the argument, it can be argued that cooperation is the more efficient and effective method of workplace behavior.
     Cooperation has many obvious pros such as the ability to share ideas/brainstorm with more than one brain, the ability to split tasks within a project, the ability to utilize one anothers' strengths and weaknesses to your advantage within any given project, etc. These are the many reasons why I agree with cooperation being the more logical route in organizing workplace behavior. Cooperation fosters a healthy workplace culture where everyone is given the opportunity to showcase their strengths and create an outcome that everyone involved can be proud of. Cooperative work is motivational in this way. If everyone is showing up and offering their specific talents and assets to the group, workplace satisfaction increases, and the work itself shows these positive workplace behaviors. 
     Of course, the counterarguments in opposition to cooperative work would argue that companies essentially function as a giant cooperative effort by having people in varying roles within a company. There is also the argument that some people simply work better alone. For one, companies having varying roles for different employees, yes, this is true. However, this does not mean that the company is working entirely in a spirit of cooperation. Without those various employees working and communicating on workplace projects, there is not an actual sense of cooperation where each individual's strengths can be played upon and harnessed to produce a better outcome. This type of meaningful and effective cooperation within workplaces produces far more wins for the company than breeding a sense of competition that may churn up more work environment issues that are unnecessary. Creating a hostile work environment is just one of the many risks you face when creating a workplace that fosters competition over allowing peers to work with one another in an effective, productive way.
     Overall, the need for cooperation in humanity as a whole is something that comes naturally to all of us. It is a necessity for humans to interact and foster bonds in order to propel further and to make progress and encouraging a cut throat workplace where energy goes towards fostering competition over cooperation is losing out on the opportunity to cultivate the many strengths available to the organization to create the best outcome possible. Humans need other humans and that isn't going to change any time soon.
