In this worlds,the first thing people see often informs how they think about something.  From the looks of a person to the sign on a store, the image is the most important thing for many people.  However, this is not always a good thing.  The looks of a person, place or thing can vary vastly from the quality of these things.  Therefore, I believe that the images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.
 
The first type of image that can deceive is the sign on a store or adverstisement.   The business can invest all of there money in marketing and advertising, but then the rest of the store can not get the attention they need.   An example is a beautiful sign can influence you to go into a store.  When you get in the store, the place is a mess.   The workers don't take time to clean it.  In addition, most of the prices that are labeled are inaccurate so you end up with a larger bill then you thought when you get to the register.   If you had to choose again, you would not go in the store despite the attractive veneer on the outside of the store.  The image did not tell you what you were going to get.

Another area that images can be vastly different from the reality is in people.  People can do all sorts of things to make themselves look beautiful on the outside.  They can do plastic surgery, spend a lot of money of makeup and clothes, or get their teeth replace with a shiny, white fake smile.  However, on the inside they are not a a very good person.  They can lie and cheat you.  They may steal from you.    

One type of person that this if often true with is politicians.  They not only spend money on their personal looks, they also spend money on adverstiments stating why you should vote for them, why you should trust them. 

However, these looks can be very deceiving.  Whether you trusted them because of their looks or from the promises they made on their advertisements, they intend to betray your trust the first chance that they get if you elect them.  After you vote for them, and they go to represent you, you see them doing things that are completely opposite of what they said.  You are mad at yourself for trusting that they would be honest.  

Another kind of person would be an entertainer.  Their whole career is built on images and to make you laugh, cry and enjoy yourself.  Some may say in this instance it doesn't matter if you like an entertainer because of their looks, you can enjoy them even if they do bad things in their real life. 

While this may be true to some extent, some people can take their admiration of an entertainer too far.  They not only like the person's work--their movies or music,  they get in someways obsessed with the person.  They would say that they love them.  They may want to be more like them.  This is where the image of the entertainer has too much of an impression on a person.  They start to become like the person.  They may think well if so and so lies and cheats on other people then it must be ok to do it too.   The image of this person had too strong of an effect on their fan.

In all of these ares, images have the potential to have too strong on an effect on people.  People can make bad decisions based on the trust they had in what they saw.  Some things where this happens are not as big a deal.  If you go to the wrong store, you can leave. If you buy something with deceptive advertising, you have lost money but all in all, the effect isn't too bad.   

However, with the effect of trust a politician with an image that is opposite of who the person really is, you start getting into territory where you have quite a bit of regret of having trusted the image of the person.  The things that this person does while in their elected position can have a ripple effect that is wide ranging in your life and in general world arround you.

In addition, if you allow yourself to be influenced by an enterntainer that has beautiful looks on the outside, but is ugly on the inside, you can become ugly.  Your whole life can be changed by following what this person is doing and modeling your life on it.  You may make some very bad decisions that you may regret.

So, as you look toward the future and think about how you make decisions, you need to be aware of how you let images and impressions shape your life.  It would be wise to be critical of what you are seeing.  This doesn't mean that the image never matches to what the reality is.  It just means that you should not accept it without questioning.  Do your homework on the store, the product. or the person that you are trusting and making a judgement by relying just on the impressions gathered from your eyes.  Use your brain to decide whether or not the image or impression is worth trusting or relying on. 

