The human species, aka homo sapiens, has clawed its way to the top of the food chain, in contradiction to its Latin translation, "the wise ape".  Our ancestors should have designated us as homo callidus, "the clever ape".  After all, we are, contrary to common misconception, part of the animal kingdom.  Yes, we have evolved into a most sneaky lot.

Surely, our collaborative efforts have made us most successful.  But, has the end result been justified by our means?  Capitalism vs. socialism, or the maligned communism, has given us legion of despicable leaders.  Yet, without the collective efforts of the populous, we would not be living in such a technically-advanced society.

For every discovery, we like to assign one responsible party, while forgetting the entire process of discovery may be completely useless at the time.  Consider the electron, identifed through team research over 100 years ago.  It was a great find but served no purpose until late in the 20th century.  Now, our entire world is powered by electronics.

We also live in a time of great strife.  In the United States of America, we are once again in the throes of a visceral political election cycle.  The candidates' success will be determined by the number of votes cast, by the people, who clearly are no longer represented by the electorate.  One may argue, legitimately, that the few are determined to undermine the efforts of many and destroy our democratic republic.

In so many walks of life, competition weeds out the weak and promotes the strong, often with little to no concern for the majority of participants.  Business, athletics, politics, religion...all invoke a "king of the hill mentality".  But, when people join together, for the sake and care of everyone, that is the true measure of success.

Hurricane "Ian" recently decimated the southeast portion of our country.  Our President, the state Governor, FEMA and the vocal minority, pounding their chests, will take credit.  But, in the end, it will be the people of Florida, with their monumental cooperation, who will prevail, to the greater good of everyone.
