The way items or people look or try and portray themselves gets all the attention nowadays. People won't buy things if the packaging is boring or the images pop out on the screen when browsing online. Commercials and other ads go overboard on what is going on in the ad that they do not make a clear point. I think that impressions that these images have on people is way too much. 

We need to focus on what we are actually getting or what they are actually selling us. Sometimes the best product is the blandest item on the shelf. Then there are so many people out there that aren't worth listening to. They steal the spotlight because who they are and the image they are portraying, but in reality they are no better than anyone else. People like Kim Kardashian, whose fame all started from a video. She has this image that she flaunts and it gets people to want to follow her constantly. She then has the nerve to say women just don't want to work hard anymore.  It happens with many other people. They act one way when the fact they are nothing like that. We need to stop giving into these type of people and letting their image control the world. 

The entertainment industry aren't the only ones who do this type of things. Politicians from all sides put up a charade. When all you have to do is scroll down a couple pages on their twitter and find that they aren't who they say they are. They will post whatever they know will get the most likes and shares from  their blind followers. 

You also will see this for content creators. Scroll through youtube and all you see are the same type of thumbnail pictures. Shocked faces, silly faces, and big and animated font. Not every video needs that type of intro or detail added in. Not every video is worthy of being that shocked. People fall for it and click on those videos so it just keeps going on. Video content has gone down year by year and that's because we are allowing them to be lazy and just copy cat other creators. The best content gets hidden behind all this other click bait, because their thumbnail wasn't exciting enough. 

When you  go on Amazon you see countless amount of items. You search for what you need and you get shown products that are similar to what you are looking for. Which ones are you going to click on? The ones that stand out the most at a reasonable price. If you click add to cart without doing further research you are most likely going to get an item they focused on advertising then the product itself. You need to ignore the images they are showing you and look at the revies, comments, and specific details. 

In conclusion, we need to really look at the fine details. What is that person actually doing that makes them a good person? Is that item really the best product for what I am needing?  The flashy advertisement may actually be trying to distract you from the faults in the product itself. You can't base your decisions on the first thing you see. You need to take the time and learn about the person or the item itself. 
