Everywhere around the world differs in what you are able to acquire on a normal basis. We see it on telivision, designer purses, expensive watches, fancy shoes. We see it in personality traits, the Hilton's, the Kardashian's, movie and music stars. It's called materialism. And you can love it, or hate it. But, the problem is... it's common. And it's probably here to stay.

You often hear it used as an insult. And in the country I'm from, the United States, people often use it to belittle and insult our society.

There are some that believe that criticising someone for being materialistic is rude, but it's a part of their personality and it has to do with what they "have" and "why" they're able to acquire such objects. Someone born to wealth has an easier time spending hundreds of dollars on a purse, than someone who is born into poverty. We can't fault them. It's all they know.

I imagine that most people reading this essay were born in the first world. The first world is technological and it's ever changing. Part of having a technological world is having to buy and acquire technology to keep up with the times. Laptops, cell phones, PC computers, smartwatches. Job places will only do interviews via PC since COVID has made everyone shut in. So everyone wants the latest and greatest technology to assure their careers are intact, their kids can continue to attend school, and they don't have to worry about outdated software and crashing.

We all want to get the most bang for our buck. We want to decorate our homes and make them feel like home. We don't want to buy a new pair of shoes every week, so we spend the extra money on something that's better quality. Some may think it frivolous... others will call it being frugal. We work for our money, and we work hard. We put in 40+ hours of our weeks every single week to survive, we also want to live. We want to buy items that make us happy and make our families happy.

We spend hundreds, if not thousands of dollars on Christmas, Birthdays, Holiday decorations and more. We line our shelves with books we won't ever read. We stock our pantries with food we'll probably never eat. There's nothing inherintly wrong with that. It's your money. It's your right to make yourself happy, and honestly who will ever see what's in your closet, or your living room? It's cash. And it goes in and out. It's how the economy keeps moving.

Some may say that we've become spoiled. Some may use the old addage "there are starving children in china." The truth of the matter is that a materialistic society is part of our culture. There are starving people "everywhere" and deciding not to buy the latest iPad isn't going to fix that. 

The bottom line: Yes, materialism can be a real shame and lead to envy and frustration, but one blue collar worker with a pair of Jordans can't cure world hunger. It doesn't make sense to criticise something that is here to stay and something that will only continue to be a part of our normal lives. Let people live. Let people do what makes them happy. We work hard, so let us spoil ourselves. Live and let live. Modern society most likely won't be changing any time soon.
