Images and impressions have become ingrained into our culture. Advertisements are all around us wether we like it or not. It's now difficult for the average person to go about their day without seeing multiple advertisements. Often there will be a difference in between the advertisement and the product, the persona and the person, how something is perceieved versus how it is in actuality. The problem is that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people nowadays, when in reality the product itself is often inadequate. 

Imagine a scenario for a minute. You are walking down the isles of your local grocery store. You are thinking about picking up a few frozen meals as you won't have much time to cook this week. You see a box of frozen chicken and pasta. The box is bold and colorful and has a picture of the food that looks like it was prepared by a Michelin Star chef. Its looks like its hot, steamy, and delicious. You decide to buy it, bring it home, and place it in the microwave to cook. Now you expect it to look like the picture on the box, but when you pull it out it looks and tastes like a sad, disgusting, slop of a meal. 

The frozen food that didn't turn out great is an example of the advertising versus reality we now see. Advertising seems to be displaying the absolute best we could ever expect to see, however, we rarely will see that best. This can apply to public figures, food, cars, services, and more. There will always be exceptions to this. A politician may actually do what they say they are going to do, a car brand may actually deliver something that is fun and reliable, or the food on the box may actually turn out to be amazing. The problem is that this hardly ever seems to be the case. 

Images and impressions have an influence on people wether we like it or not, and the final result or product hardly ever holds true to what was advertised. Good advertising can go a long way in influencing opinion, in many cases having too much of an effect on people causing their money to be spent on a certain product or their vote cast in a certain direction. The product recieved or the person who got voted in often fails to meet expectation. We now live in a society where advertisements, images and impressions, cannot be relied on.     
