We live in a world where everywhere you look, someone is trying to influence you.  Be it a company that wants you to buy it's product, a celebrity that wants your favor and attention, even politicians that want to persuade you that 'this is good, and that is bad,' regardless of facts.  We live in a world of advertisements and influencers, a world where everything from a giant billboard, to packaging design for a pack of matches, is designed to warp our sense of perception.  Now, it's no secret that people are impressionable.  In fact, that's really the only reason these companies and celebrities are able to pull off this image of importance, of being larger than life.  However, I believe this can have too much of an effect on others.

Now, obviously people need to be able to sell their services, whether it's a mom and pop restaurant, or a celebrity like Justin Timberlake.  And advertisements, product and packaging design, PR campaigns, etc., are all things that help in that aspect.  The argument I have isn't with the necessity for these people to be able to advertise or improve their public image, but rather with the methodology.  The argument can be made that people make their own decisions based on the information at hand, but when that information is often skewed, it's creating a false image.  You end up with people thinking certain goods, services, or even other people, are above everything and everyone else.  We have celebrities and athletes making more money than doctors, directly due to this.  By manipulating people's perceptions, we have a society that values the importance of dribbling a ball or being funny more than the ability to save lives.  And that's just one example of the growing problem of influencing people in often sneaky ways.

As the world gets more and more technologically advanced, and information is able to spread even faster than now, this problem will only grow worse.  Only by taking a step back, and looking at the whole picture without the bells and whistles, will people be able to look past the manipulative smoke screen that surrounds them.  Unfortunately, most people are either unwilling to admit this fact, or are just blissfully sailing on ignorance.  Hopefully one day people will realize how products and people are constantly vying for their money and attention, while going through elaborate means to do so.  Just because a product is a certain brand, or a person is popular, doesn't mean that we as a society need to put them on a pedestal.  A product should speak for itself, not the packaging.  A person should be valued by their abilities, not an unrealistic image that has been made of them.
