There is nothing wrong with being materialistic. There is a sense of contentment when buying things. Times were different back in the old days when there was no mass advertisement. People lived a minimalistic and simple life. However, the 21s century is an era with mass market consumerism and advertisement - for example, a brand new iPhone or the newest Playstation. Humans in this century are exposed to TV shows that portray lavish and expensive lifestyles, from mansions to cars, clothing and expensive vacations. Modern society should not criticize anyone for being too materialistic when we are being exposed to these images every second of the day. Also, materilistic goods and possessions can provide others a narrative of how one has come to become successful over time. Let people live the way they want to live. Less criticizing and more minding your own business.

Nowadays, consumers or all kind are exposed to social media influencers and reality TV celebrities. These viewers are exposed to the lavish lifestyle these celebrities live. This therefore creates a huge following of materialist people who want to follow their favorite influencers and celebrities lifestyles. They will strive to have what these rich figures own. Many people will do what it takes in order to achieve this lavish and beautiful lifestyle. Some may say that it is superficial, but if that's what makes them happy, then so be it. Everyday, people are exposed to countless advertisements and commercials not just on TV, but even when they just take a walk out the street. It's safe to say that with this huge amount of exposure to materialism, the lifestyles of the people are going towards to being superficial. 

Oftentimes, a possession of an item could tell a story about a person. The more things one owns, the happier and successful one appears to be. That may not be the case. One could possess a ton of materialistic things but still not be happy or satisfied with their life. For example, one could own nothing materilistic but lives a happy and fulfilling life because all they need is their family's love. They do not need any materialistic goods. On the other hand, someone could own an expensive mansion in Beverly Hills, but not be happy or satisfied with their life because of other factors. They may look like they are happy because of their possessions, but deep down, we do not know what is going on in their life. We should not criticize others for being materialistic. It could be a temporary happiness for one. We should judge others. 

In conclusion, modern society shouold not be criticized for being materialistic because of the countless exposures to superficial lifestyles we see on television. People strive for materialistic goods because they see others on social media, or famous celebrities being happy and successful showing off their materialistic goods. Humans are scared of rejection or being different for not having what others view as lavish. Being materialistic is encouraged by our society as it supports capitalism. 
