Some people believe competition makes them more successful because they push themselves to outdo other people and when they push themselves they do better than they would have if they has not pushed themselves. Other people believe that cooperation will make them more successful because if you work in a team to accomplish things, then you can become succesful faster than working alone. I believe that cooperation builds more success in some places while competition builds more success in other places.

When people work together in most businesses it will make them more successful within that business. When everyone is working toward the same goal, they can brainstorm and build off of each others ideas. Building off of others ideas can lead to a lot better product than just going off one persons' vision. This is why cars and electronics keep getting better. It takes several minds to be able to see and develop the things that people want and find helpful.

When people compete against other people to build a business, I think it leads to success. When your own salary depends on doing better than someone else, people tend to work harder in order to outdo the business they are competing against. This is why new companies wither fail or thrive. They work to compete with others and the ones who work harder and innovate more will succeed.

Cooperation and competition have thier place when success is defined by money. There are a lot of rich people who look successful, but are eeply unhappy. I do not believe you can have all the money in the world, be deeply unhappy and still call yourself successful. I personally believe in cooperation to be successful because successful for me is not about monetary progress. Success for me is about being happy in life.

Being about to do good work and build hobbies and the things you like is what I believe makes people happy. A happy and productive life is what I believe success is. When we are all working toward the same goal of happiness, then we are more aware of what others need. When we can provide what others need and have our needs provided by others when we can be more successful than if we are soley focused on our needs at the detriment to others.  Building a good neighborhood to live in be happy in, depends on people working together to achieve that goal. You can not meet the needs of everyone by only focusing on one person.

Cooperation and competition each have thier place in building success if your definition of success depends on how much money you have. But, if your idea of success depends on happiness, cooperating with other people on the betterment of all people will lead each individual to be successful. 
