Some people argue that the meaning of life comes from happiness, but they don't always articulate what constitutes happiness. Perhaps to some, happiness is something that transcends meaning, that everyone knows but can't put into words. However, I believe that we can identify what causes someone to feel happy, and we can use that to define this emotion. Thus, today I will argue that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals. I'll discuss how meeting basic needs affects happiness, how goals influence fulfillment, and how influencing the happiness of others is actually self-serving. 

First, note that before someone can even feel happiness, they need to be safe and secure. Pavlov's hierarchy of needs places food, water, shelter, and other basic needs at the bottom of his pyramid. For these people, their personal goal is just to make it to their next paycheck. They are focused on making sure they have enough money to pay rent and provide food on the table for their family. By achieving this goal, they are able to put some of this burden aside, and that may cause them to feel happy. If they were not able to achieve these goals, such as if they had to go hungry or live on the street, how could someone be happy? Once these basic needs are met, then we can move on to pursuits of hobbies, education, family, and career goals, which can bring fulfillment to peoples' lives.

Second, happiness comes from feeling fulfilled in life. When we begin school at a young age, we're always told to look towards the future. "What do you want to be when you grow up?" is a question every kindergartner is asked many times. Once finished with compulsory education, perhaps going to college is the next step. The end goal whether a diploma is achieved or not is usually a satisfying career. At some point, then, we're usually expected to begin a family. All of these goals are made with the intent to cause fulfillment in our lives, and what better source of happiness is there? At the end of our lives, we can look back and see our achievements and feel pleased about all that we've accomplished. Of course, we can accomplish many things in charitable works as well, but I'll next argue that's not actually different from what we've already discussed.

Third, the pursuit of others' happiness is actually self-serving. Some may argue that true happiness comes from making others happy. It's certainly true that another person's smile is contagious, but is that happiness external or internal? If a person engages in charity work with the goal of it making them happy, is it not their personal goal to engage in that work? And is making someone happy through that work not succeeding in that goal? In this case, I believe that the source of happiness is actually internal. Most people are not selfless, just helping others for no benefit. If we help others and expect something in return, then it is for us that we are engaging in that activity, not others. And then we come full circle: that focusing on our own goals is the cause of happiness.

Through this essay, I have shown that people are more likely to become happy if they focus on their own personal goals. I've shown this by discussing meeting basic needs, by discussing fulfillment, and by explaining that influencing the happiness of others is actually self-serving.
