Materialism is often seen as the crux of modern society. Mankind started out in bare caves with nothing but a small fire and sparse animal pelts, yet today, the more you accumulate, the higher the status. Is there meaning in the material? Or is it nothing but an exercise in vanity, the real cause of unhappiness and unfulfilment? While there are certainly cases of materialism to the extreme, I believe that it does more good than it does harm.

The human race is a species always struggling not just to find meaning in the chaos of the universe, but to find themselves individually. Happiness can be different for everyone, so to say materialism is nothing but harmful is reductive. There are basic necessities that we all need to survive: shelter, food, clothing; any person without will happily argue their lives would be much better if they could easily acquire them. But even beyond the necessities, who can dictate what brings happiness to another? Think of the joy a work of art can bring. The wave of nostalgia from an old, childhood toy. The pride in a carefully curated collection. The sense of accomplishment in knowing these tangible things are yours, a part of who you fundamentally are as a person, and can never be taken from you. Yes, excess of these things should viewed more seriously than we do as a society; the rich continue to get richer, accumulating more and more, not caring who suffers around them. But that doesn't mean all things material are evil. For me, there are precious memories stored in each and every one of my possessions; having them around me is like being able to peruse a mental catalogue of past days.

Some sit like dragons atop their treasure trove, snarling when less fortunate ask for help. Others indulge every whim, buying themselves the biggest and shiniest, making their image as flashy as possible for the world to adore. But they are far outweighed by the rest of us, happy to carve out our own slice of life, content in the small tokens of the world that we have collected for ourselves, finding meaning in the material.
