The pursuit of happiness is one of the goals everyone strives for, it is one of the righs listed in the preamble of the US Constitution. Everyone wants to be happy, but how do we gain the happiness trait truly. Some will say that when we focus on our goals and our motivations we will reach happiness. I counter however by saying that true happiness comes from being happy with what is around us and being content in our every day lives.

Our surroundings truly end up defining us. Being in a good situation can improve our daily lives in more ways than we can imagine. Being happy is a result of reaching contentment. Contenment is reached when we realize that life is not about being at the top of the world or constantly working to climb higher, it is reached when those who surround us are happy and living a healthy life. That doesn't mean one should not have personal goals for which they want to attain, all this means is that one should prioritize putting a smile on the faces of those around us that we could live vicariously through. If not this, then what. 

Some will say that focusing on your own goals will bring you happiness but with goals there will always be others that are brought up and you end up in a never ending cycle of goal attainmant. There really is never any satisfaction, if there was the richest of us would settle into the environment and live out their life smoking a cigar on a beach somewhere, yet they are constantly thriving to reach new heights. You work hard climing the mountain of your dreams and goals just to get to the top and either realizing that it was not all worth it, or that there is still higher to climb. While there are others, taking their time surrounded by those who they love climing together. You reached the top of your mountain but lost focus on those around you and end up lonier than ever, but at least you reached your goals right. At the end of the day you are never really satisfied or happy, you are just repeating the same things again.  On the other hand, if you find your happiness in others and improving society, you might get discouraged once or twice sure, but you will feel more fulfilled and live a more productive life.

To summarize a lot of the smartest philosophers and thinkers in human history, life is hard. To deal with the pains and torment that comes with the advent of daily life, we can build a society full of positive influences and happiness around us. Humans are social creatures and we get joy by seeing others around us joyful. When it is our time to go, it is better to be surrounded by those who we shared our joy, than all the accomplishments that we have fulfilled.
