What is materialism. How the society changed trough out the history and how the values changed regarding our views on materialism. Do all society have the same materialistic world vies like we have on West? Let's try to answer this.
First, wealth of some nations are measured based on their GDP. Why? Because it is something we can see and measure in numbers. So, based on this paramether the richest country in the world are ones with the highest GDP. And, in thet context the most materialistic countries are USA, Gernany, France, Canada...so Western countries in general. 
The next question is can we put equation mark- materialist equal health (mental or spiritual)? This is very hard to answer.In some way my answer would be YES. The richest countries are the happiest ones. But, I think it is something deeper. The most materialistic society have the highest standards regarding human/citizen rights. I guess economic development and gaining a lot of materialistic wealt gave these sicieties time to raise standards of living on many ways. And the most important is being valued as an individual.
On the other hand, there are societis that are more religious and materialisc values are historicly not that important. The value spiritual values. Some tribes, native people also value more collectivness, family ...etc. Materialistic world, money, is a just to be used to support family. In the west gaining more and more wealth is more valued.
But, should these societie be critisiezed. I think yes, in a way that we become too greedy. We forget family, we aliniate from each othe and we are led only by selfinterest. People like Jeff Bezos can have billions and that is scary. I think the state should have laws agains aquairing that much wealth. We need to put the limit how much money individual can hace, for ezample not more than 10 millions. The rest can be distributed to lower groups, for interest of many. 
On the other side, as a human being we like materialistic world, We say that man is made from matery and spirit/soul. So, if we can make society to balance those two sides we can have the happiest societies. 
Modern societies are developing fast, Where is the limit? Noone knows. We have to know that there are still very poor societies and they want to come to live in countries that are rich. They recognize the significance of material stuff. So, my answer would be that we have to make societis that can both value materialistic anf menthal health/ religion. It is nothing wrong if society wants to be rich, just not forget our soul.
