While many people, especially in America, see competition as fundamental to our social and economic system the cummulative benefits to our country as a whole would be better served if our focus for success was based on a cooperative model. Instead of individual achievement, we should focus on the achievement of the group through our cooperative efforts. 

There is a biological precedence for group behaviors in the work of kin evolution. The success and perpetuation of our species often depends on our ability to sacrifice for the group outside our own individual needs. We see this in other species like bees and ants. But it can also be seen in our own societies as we have individuals in our families who do not contribute to the gene pool but help raise and protect the next generation of people within our family and community. Cooperation is a critical element to our group survival and perpetuation.

Secondly, the drive for individual achievement or competition has unintended consequences. Those who are focused on their own individual achievement may be driven through psychological pressures to commit unethical and illegal means to achieve these ends. This is seen in many aspects of the business world where metrics to measure performance are "gamed" or falsified to achieve goals. For instance at Wells Fargo the company's push to drive new membership encouraged managers to illicitly create false accounts for customers to inflate their individual membership numbers. 

Finally cooperation has the positive benefit of bringing together a diversity of experience and skills that allows for a project or initiative to draw upon more readily available benefits. An individual who is lacking a skill would be required to stop and learn this skill or might achieve a result that is lacking through this deficiency. In a group cooperative, they would be able to lean on the skills of others to achieve a goal with better and faster results. 

The major arguments against cooperative behaviors tend to revolve around the idea of pressure as the key ingredient to promoting new ideas and avoiding failure. Individual performance and competition could be seen as the 'stick' method of achieving results. With the consequences described above as potentially producing lackluster results and often with dubious means. The cooperative method however, creates a foundation for support that discourages unethical behavior and brings together the resources of a group to achieve a goal rather than relying on the limited resources of one individual.

The power of cooperation can be tapped to build a community that takes the best resources, skills and abilities of a group and use them to achieve a greater success. It also provides a community foundation of support that reduces the chances of failure. 



