What is happiness? Happiness is a feeling we have all felt at one point or another in our lives. It may make us smile, make us feel warm inside, make us want to seek out similar tasks to replicate the feeling, or may make us feel a sense of contentment in our lives. Happiness can come in many shapes and forms without any real formula on how to create or replicate the feeling. Some theories suggest that happiness may be aquired through focusing on our own personal goals that we set for ourselves while other theories believe happiness comes from helping other's achieve their own hapiness and finding ours along the way. In this essay, we will discuss why this writer believes happiness comes from working towards our own goals and aspirations. 

Each of us are born into this world with a purpose. As we grow older, we start to develop our own dreams and aspirations as far as how we want to live our lives, what we want to be when we grow up, and what steps we want to take to get there. For some people, these goals may look like: graduating high school, attending university, getting a degree, getting a good job, becomming successful, earning a living wage, getting married, buying a home, having children, and living our lives out with those we care about. For others, life goals may look like: traveling the world, making a signficant difference or lasting impression on the Earth, curing Cancer, joining the military, or devoting our lives to helping those less fortunate. Regarldess of what our goals are, when feel a deep sense of accomplishment, achievement, and most of all, happiness, when we finally aquire a goal we have been striving for. The feeling that we get when we meet a goal, is the drive that pushes us to continue forward and keep meeting our goals even when the going gets tough. 

Sometimes, we may help other's meet their goals along the way. Maybe our best friend also wants to get into the same university and we help them with their essay, getting references together, studying together for the SAT, and even helping them move into their dorm on move in day. Helping others achieve their goals can also imitate or create a feeling of happiness in us because of course we care about those around us and want them to succeed; however, if we do not also get to reap the benefits of what we have sown then the feeling of happiness is short lived for us. Maybe we helped that close friend get into college but did we put all of our energy into helping them and not enough into helping ourselves; maybe we missed our own deadline for applying or got rejected by our dream school? Helping other's achieve their own happiness is a virtue but it is not fair to ourselves to put our own goals on the backburner and be a passenger in the ride of our own lives. To be happy, we must be an active participant in acheiving our own goals.

In conclusion, many things can give us a sense of happiness and what happiness truly means can be something completely different for everyone. We may all take different paths, have different stepping stones, and different end goals. The main thing we all have in common is that when we achieve a goal we have been working towards for a long time, we feel a deep sense of satisfaction, pride, and happiness. Happiness can also be felt after helping someone else reach their goals but that sense of happiness is short lived as we are not experiencing the benefits of our hard work daily as we do when it is our own goal we achieved. The true test will be when we are old and contemplating the satisfaction of our lives; will we feel more happiness that we achieved everything we wanted to with our precous time on this Earth or will we feel more happiness that we helped others but did not help ourselves? To me, the answer is clear. We can help others along the way but the only way to achieve our own happiness is to focus on our own goals and set out to make our lives the best possible lives we can while we still have the time. 
