Do you want designer clothes, the latest hot technology, or a fancy sports car? If you constantly desire these items you might be considered materialistic. A lot of today's society seem to fall on one or two sides of a scale. One side chases all the newest things and it gives them a sense of pride; while the other side perfers a simple type of life and often mock those who are materialistic. That being said, what side of the coin do you fall on, and should modern society be criticized for being too materialistic?

It is very difficult for me to decide where I fall on the spectrum. On one hand, I like getting new things and cherish them, and on the other hand I feel like people who just care about materialistic things can come off as being considered fake and uncaring. While I think that the people who are more materialistic are just seeking meaning and happiness in their life, and that is wonderful. However, I believe that there should be a good balance in your life to where helping others should bring those positive feelings as well. Could I just be selfless and donate all my time and money to others? Probably not because I do not think doing just that would bring me happiness, but  does that make myself and society too materiallistic?

I believe the world is not too materiallistic because there are a lot of people who do things like donating to charity, doing community service, and just standing up for good causes. A majority of people who do this recieve happiness for their good deeds. Do you think those people do not like having nice things? I believe that they get joy and happiness out of both things. Let's take Bill Gates for example, he is a billionare and donates a lot of his time and money to making the world better. Do you think Bill Gates is not happy when he gets the latest tech and if he does get happy, does that make him materialistic? I without a shadow of a doubt, do not think Bill Gates is materialistic. 

Do not feel bad if the latest hot item brings you joy, because while some might consider modern society too materialistic, if you have a happy balance in your life, that is okay. People will always judge and percieve others as they do and there is no changing that. I believe that everyone in the world should be happy and if being materiallistic makes you happy, go for it. If donating all of your time and wealth makes you happy, go fo it. If you are struggling to find a good balance like myself; just remember that the world is not too materialistic because we all will do what makes us happy.
