Virtual reality has become a major topic of conversation in the world today. As a society, we look towards the future and wonder what it will mean to replace our normal experiences with virtual equivalents. Many are disturbed by the very notion of living in a digitally rendered, fake version of the world. However, the truth is that we already dwell in our own version of the Metaverse. So much of our world today is fictitious: our online personas, our advertisements, our ideas of who our leaders are and where their real intentions lie. The entire system is built upon imagery, and it is distorting reality for us all in three important ways: it is effecting the mental health of our youth, it is damaging our democratic institutions, and it is leading people to make poor health decisions. 

With the rise of social media, people are online more then ever before. In particular, young people and adolescents spend a greater proportion of their time on apps such as Instagram and Facebook. These are sites where people digitally inhance their image to make themselves look better, and they present what on the surface seems like perfect lives. Many young people internalize this falsehood, and compare themselves to these digital personas that are unrealistic. They experience a loss of confidence in their appearance and depression that their lives don't match up with the lives of their online friends and family members. In the worst cases, they may develop severe self-perception problems that can last a lifetime. 

We could be doing more to prevent this from happening online. For example, the congress could pass legislation regulating the tech industry and how it presents content to young people online. However, our legislative system is in no small part influenced by these very same companies. They rely on their ability to communicate and present themselves in a positive way on these platforms, and I would argue it makes them less capable of holding them accountable when change needs to happen. 

Lastly, dishonest practices in advertising effect the decisions that people make with their health. Every time we scroll through our feeds we are bombarded with advertisements for fast food, sodas, candy, and alcohol. We see in the commercials unrealtically good products that make us want to go and purchase them impulsively. Because of how often we are exposed to these advertisements online, we are drawn to making decisions that we wouldn't make otherwise. 

Taken all together, it is clear that we need to have a greater understanding of the impact that images and impressions have on people. We know that social media is hurting the self-confidence of our youth, and leading to rises in mental health disorders as a result. We know that our institutions are not what they present to themselves to be in the public eye, and increasingly people are mistrustful of our system because of that. We know that the rapid increase in advertising that has resulted from the explosion of social networking has led to a greater level of impulsiveness in our society. This directly translates to increases in weight-gain, diabetes, alcoholism and obesity. The bottom line is this: the longer we dwell under these illusions the more damage we will sow.
