Materialism, buying and collecting things, has become more and more prevelant in modern society. As more people have had access to disable income, their spending habits go up. Some see it as a bad thing, while others see it as a fact of life.

While materialism is a growing in the world. As more people get credit cards and the rise of online shopping. Society it self should not be criticized for it. In reality it is not societys fault that they have brought up this culture, its companies that push the idea of consumerism onto people. Also criticizing materialism in society may undermine people that are less income or not as much privilege.

Companies, not society, are to blame for the over materialistic world we live in. Many times they push products that are seen as one time use, or the idea that you must have this. This  of course, causes people to buy more then they might actually need. Society has been influenced by the consumer culture that  has developed over the past decades, mainly pushed by major companies. Criticizing society also overlooks people who may be less fornuate. Many people who push against consumerism come from affluent circles, who may be able to buy fewer and better lasting things then people who constantly has to buy new things. These two reasons are why soceity is not to blame for being too matterialistic.

Some people say that a materialstic society is bad for the enviroment, while this is true, the blame should not be put on society, but the companies and people that push consumer culture. Like mentioned above, companies are the ones that have spent years on trying find out  how to make consumers buy more and more often.

In  conclusion, while materialism should be seen as a problem in society, it is not society itself that should be criticized. For reasons like how companies are the ones that caused this society and that it could overlook people that must buy things more often. And while it is bad for the enviroment, it is companies that mostly push unsustainable products. Materialism will be here to stay as countries grow and companies still hold power over consumers. Giving consumers more pwower will help them call for products that can last longer for cheaper.
