Happiness has, and always will be a subjective matter. How to obtain it yet even a harder question to answer, and one that will never have a advertly question answer. However, in regards to the topic, people are more likely to find it through focusing on their own goals, but most likely to keep it by helping others. 
People are naturally born selfish, from a psychological standpoint, as that part of our brain is being developed throughout our childhood and teenage years. Just from this fact alone, it is safe to make the conclusion that happiness is in fact something more likely to be obtainable through our own greedy goals, than through our less visited giving natures. Now this is not to say that one CANNOT attain happiness from helping others, but that it is MORE likely through helping oneself. It is not being asked if true happiness is being found, but if happiness is being reached. 
These are the keywords to the question being asked, "more likely." The prompt is not asking if both are likely to give happiness, if one gives more happiness, or if one is easier to achieve happiness with. There is no argument that happiness can not be achieved to some extent through either method, personal goals or happiness through others are both methodical approaches to achieving happiness. But for sake of the question, there is a method that is "most likely" to give happiness, and that is through ones gains because of the psychological make up of the brain.
The idea of reward comes into play as well. If one focuses all their energy on helping someone achieve their happiness, there is no possible way that this means they achieve their own happiness. For example, workers are constantly working for their bosses happiness in a sense, because if they do a good job, the boss in return gets the praise, and the acknowledgement. While this does not guarantee the boss' happiness in itself, a boss that does get happiness from this, how can one say a worker who is overworked and underpayed has achieved happiness through their service?
One can argue that the happiness from others is more fulfilling in that it is shared among others, and psychologically again, we are innately social creatures. While this is most likely true, having happiness among other beings is probably longer lasting, more fulfilling, and felt stronger, this again is not the question at hand. You once again, regardless of the strength of happiness are not being asked whether one is better at providing happiness, you are being asked which is able to more likely provide happiness, and as such, the happiness is more consistently and quickly gained through our own goals. 
In conclusion, we are innately selfish beings, and thus get happiness most likely through use of our own personal goals. There is no denial that one can obtain it through helping others, but this does not always work, and cannot be said to be as effective as through oneself. One is more likely to experience happiness based on the serotonin alone from eating the chocolate bar, than from seeing another eat the chocolate bar. One COULD find happiness along  the way by helping others, but one gets happiness from achieving their goals. 
