Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.  People are easily misled by advertisements, biased or even untrue news, and even conspiracy theories.  The reasons for this are varied but include an unregulated social media, poor education, and tribalsim.

For many people who grew up reading, watching, and listening to traditonal media they were accustomed to a regulated media that could not lie to them.  They got into a pattern of expecting things that they read or heard to be fact checked, sourced, and true.  Sure, there would be bias in the reporting, but the events would have actually happened.  These people would naturally assume that the news they were consuming online would have the same consumer protections as the regulated media they consumed earlier.  This would turn out to be incorrect however.  Social media, click bait, and extremist sites all present fabrications as fact and influence many people to believe ridiculous lies.  The government can and should regulate social media companies like traditional news media, force them to moderate themselves and make sure that crazy lies are stripped off of the platform before they get people killed.  Yes, people die because of the lunacy they read on social media.

Another prong of our attack against the misleading of people by images and impressions will have to be improving education.  Critical thinking skills need to be prioritzed in all levels of education.  People should be taught to examine every claim they come across.  The should examine the author, the source, and what other sources say about the same event, product, or person.  Sure the store says its brand is the best, but what do independent sources say?  Are the independent sources you are looking at actually independent?  These are not the questions that come to mind in trusting children, or even adults who have not been taught to think in a critical fashion.  This is needed however in order to deal with the major issues of our day.  People who think critically are harder to lead, mislead, and control.

Finally tribalisim is becoming a large problem in the world.  Studies have shown that people are more likely to believe something if other people in their political party or relegion, or social group also believe it.  We want to think that we are correct all of the time.  If we find out that we are incorrect then we would have to reexamine our views on many issues.  Many people are not ready for that level of introspection.  Therefore it is easier to keep on accepting every absurd thing a "trusted" source on your team is saying.  This led many people to accept crazy conspiracy theories that would not normally have done so, including the world is flat, vaccinations are bad, and russia is a good country.

Some people would say that humanity has always been able to persuaded to act against their better interests.  They would say that nothing has changed and images and impressions do not have more weight then reality.  To them I would say that while the majority of people are making good choices, there is a large and growing population that is making poor choices based on images and impressions that is endangering the entire human race.  

For an example we have to go no further than the pandemic.  A large enough group of people do not want to be vaccinated against all research and facts.  These people are allowing the COVID-19 virus to mutate and in their bodies until it can once again overcome vaccines and start up the whole system again.  These people don't want to wear masks or do anything that would need them to change their actions in any way.  If we had done a solid global lockdown, wore masks, and accepted vaccination as soon as possible, we would not have had these years of the pandemic, we would have solved it in a year.

In conclusion, it is vastly apparent that imagery and appearences are having an outsized impact on our society.  There are reasons that this is happening including poor education, tribalisim and poor government regulation.  These issues must be solved if our civilization is going to survive the future.  Climate change, future pandemics, and global tensions will all require clear heads, an informed and educated public, and good thinking.  The only way we survive is to force people to look at the reality of the situation.  Not the advertisements and false media narratives pushed to people by the powerful to keep the status quo as the global population continues to suffer.
