People are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others. There is some disagreement over whether people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals instead. However, logic weighs in favor of the chance of happiness being higher if a person's focus is on the happiness of others.

In a society where people are focusing on the happiness of others, the happiness sum of a person being uplifted by those around them is much higher then one person unilaterally working toward their personal goals. Sometimes a person cannot always provide what is necessary or even most effective in making themselves happy. Human beings are social creatures. Sometimes the energy and impact of those around us is necessary for our happiness. There is a reason solidarity confinement for an extended period of time is considered cruel and unusual - and dangerous to our psyche. Additionally, we learn from others about what we like and what brings us the most joy. In this day and age that may happen through the internet, but at the end of the day there is a person on the other side of that text message, TikTok, SnapChat, or Reddit post. Most online activities are interactive in nature for a reason.

If a person puts themselves above those around them time and time again, then those around them may put some emotional distance or sever the relationship entirely. You can achieve your non-social personal goals, but to what end? Once your professional life slows down or ends, then you won't be left with anything fulfilling to round out the rest of your life. Meanwhile the person who is focused on the happiness of others will have those around them to help them weather the storm that is life. And they will have a source of happiness in the twilight years supplied by friends and family.

It is also similar to how there are studies showing that there are psychological benefits to donating money and time to charity. Some say there is a moral obligation to donate as well. If we lived in a world where everyone was out for number one, then the most vulnerable in society would suffer. And we have seen throughout history that it can lead to the downfall of the system.

Some would say that if you focus on the happiness of others then you are sacrificing your needs if they are not aligned with those around you. That it can drain you. One outlieing situation where those around someone don't care about their happiness does not devalue the premise explained above. In that scenario, there still would not be the worthwhile social interactions that make us human. And the beauty of the human experience is that we are mobile and search for our place in life. You do not always stay in the same circle in which you grow up.

In conclusion, happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others. This allows for a net happiness that is greater than smaller individual levels of happiness.


