We live in a world where first impressions count. Companies have marketing teams dedicated to making sure their products make great first impressions. Poor advertising can lead to a product to be overlooked. Even the very first impression someone can get from a person will help them form initial judgments about that person. People use this same formula for promoting themselves; sharing the great parts of their lives so their viewers will have the idea that their life is perfect and glamorous. It leaves people wanting more. This is a very smart marketing tactic, but in some cases it definitely can be a harmful one.

Sometimes these people are telling the truth. The product could very well be high quality as the advertisements portray. The influencer may live a life free of worry and full of glamour. On the other hand, sometimes this is not the case. Companies may try to disguise a lower quality product with stunning packaging and advertising because they know that looking put together on the outside implies that the same effort was put on the inside in some cases. Not everyone will look deeper if the product looks fantastic on the surface. Celebrities and influencers may hide parts of their lives so that nobody knows that their life isn't perfect. This can hurt innocent people who consume products and media because they may assume that they are getting something good for them but they may be highly disappointed once obtaining that item or lifestyle that doesn't live up to its promotion.

Image and impressions are definitely important when it comes to marketing ones product and brand. Poor promotion, no matter the quality of the product, may harm a business or a brand. When done correctly and honestly, it can lead consumers to great products, services, businesses, and content. Producers should be honest about what they are marketing so consumers can make educated decisions on the brands they support based on the truth. It is, however, important for people to look deeper than the surface when making buying decisions to avoid committing to a product, service, or lifestyle that may be harmful to them. This imformation should be readily available to them, yet some companies choose to omit that information to deceitfully boost their image. People should always be careful and go past the surface to know everything about a brand before making decisions to support it.
