    Images and impressions have a great effect on peoples lives such as leading them to do unhealthy or healthy things, making judgements, and their appearances. This happens too often with idols and popular proucts in the industry. Whether we are talking about a particular product image or a person and the impression that they have on people, it is all a great impact on another person's life.
    When we think of images and impressions from another person or proucts, we are thinking of how they look or stand out from the crowd. When others become attracted to a certain person or product, it affects their life greatly. For instance, a fitness expert may have a great impact on another person due to their healthy choices that they make in life. They live a healthy lifestyle and workout to keep their body in shape, therefore, they will pursue others to do the same. This is all about their image and their impression towards another crowd.
    When we make judgements on a certain product or prouducts, it has a great impact on our lives. For instance, one person might go in a store and love a certain type of shampoo because it is in this awesome bottle with cool packaging and a higher price. Meanwhile, another person is making judgements because their shampoo is way cheaper and contains the same ingredients. It is product imaging that sells itself to catch people's attention and make an impression.
    A person's appearance is highly impacted by a wide range of idols, celeberties, and clothing launches throughout the year. New trends set in so people often change their style to keep up with the latest fashion. People and clothing have a great impact on a person's style every single day. A person could definitely see their idol wearing something and go out to quickly purchase that item to wear it. This is where image and impression plays a role in our lives. 
    No matter if it is food we eat, clothing we wear, people we see on tv, or products we use; there is always some type of impact on our lives. The impressions and images that these things set, effect us in every way. Whether we make impulse purchases or change our waredrobe, it does not matter how good or bad it is. These products or people will impact our lives no matter what. It is media and entertainment, it is life.
