  Cooperation and competition emphasize different kinds of success. Specifically, cooperation tends to promote the success of a collective group of agents who are working together to solve an important problem using their individual strengths to collectively generate an emergent group accomplishment that is greater than the sum of each agents own individual capabilities. On the other hand, competition tends to amplify the success of an individual at the expense, cost or diminishment of the success of other agents. The relative magnitude of success that an individual or group can achieve is best quantified by the relative magnitude of recognition they receive by in their professional circles. With this metric of success in mind, an individual can achieve more success by cooperating with others while working toward long-term significant goals that are valued by other members of professional community.
  The best example of this kind of high individual success rate achieved by working within a group to achieve an important collective goal is found in the recent discovery and use of gravitational waves to detect black hole phenomena. The key people who shared the Nobel Prize were all well-established scientific figures who were well regarded in their own right well before they were awarded with the Nobel Prize. Because of their individual abilities to compete for proposals, grants and funding amongst their peers they were able to form together a long-term scientific research program over many decades to develop the key physics, engineering and scientific expertise needed for an extremely large group of people to cooperate to build the gravity wave detection equipment and analyze the data to confirm to their professional community and the entire world that gravity waves match the theoretical predictions of Albert Einstein and others to confirm that gravitational waves are an important part of the universe.
  Like this leading example of the key scientists who were awarded the Nobel Prize for their collective detection of gravity waves, many pioneers often must compete for grants and resources early on in their own careers in order to achieve a long-lasting and revolutionary accomplishment that is recognized by the world community. By competing intensely one can build capital and credibility amongst their peers in order to then later achieve more individual success by working together with a larger group of people. In summary, more success is often achieve by people who have a competitive drive early in their career to gather enough resources to build the social capital amongst their peers to then lead a long-term research program that involves a high degree of cooperation amongst many people to achieve a significant goal that is well beyond the capabilities of any one individual person.
