Today's society should be frowned upon due to its greed for materialism. It seems that as human life progresses, the more material items control expenses, morals, and even being able to enjoy the small things. Of course, life without material things like cars, laptops, or Pokemon Card collections would seem less enjoyable. Though, in my opinion, human life would be more valuable enjoying the Earth than downloading apps and competing with who's got the most stuff. 

Some materials are a life saver for the community! Cars help us get around faster, laptops help us complete work from home, and posters are great to add personality to our homes. What is really the issue with hyper-consuming? Human beings are beginning to buy things that aren't necessary. Commercials and new trends make it hard to decide on wheather to buy food for the house or the new I Phone. All of these options of materials has clouded responsibility and judgment in humans. 

Do you remember how excited you got when your parents took you to the playground? Just imagining all the fun you would have with the other kids, bouncing and flipping around for hours? Noone was thinking about trends, or who had the most stuff. People were enjoying people, and they knew how to be happy without spending their lives savings. Undrestandibly, life still isn't just about needs, it desires wants. The real problem with a materialistic mindset is not being able to balance needs and wants, and showing lack of priorities. 

Some may argue that hyper-consuming is indeed a neccessity to fufill happiness, but I must disagree. Life is less stressful when you don't have to keep up with the new phones, shes, cars, and trends in general. Overall, aren't we just buying things to make other people think our lives are rich and grand? Buying stuff to show off stuff to gain approval of stuff? Some children know-a-days don't even like to enjoy the outdoors, instead, they would rather be on TikTok or playing the Playstation online.

I believe that humanity has gotten caught up in a loop of spending money in order to have things that will require them to spend more money. We have forgotten what is more important. We've lost connections with family members, friends, children, and coworkers. It is an everlasting loop of buying this temporary happiness, and not realizing that true happiness comes from the small things.  
