It is often said that a picture is worth a thousand words, but if you're scrolling through social media, it might be worth more than a thousand dollars. As the era of 'the influencer' becomes more of a everyday reality and less of the pesky novelty it was originally thought of as, what we see every day online is warping our perceptions of what life should look like. Influencer culture has taken everything from the food we eat to the dog toys we buy and warped their existence into a hypercolor aesthetic of casual excess and out-of-reach aspiration that is as damaging as it is completely and utterly false. While influencers are paid big money by brands and companies around the world to promote their products and make it look as though their lives are perfect, the picture-perfect images they sell to us are doing far more harm than good.

As normal consumers of nearly inescapable social media content, are constantly bombarded with images of a false reality, where women with impossibly tiny waists chow down on huge burgers dripping with cheese and pork belly, and immaculately curated closet tours show off the designer clothes worn by young adults whose followers can probably only afford chuck taylors and second-hand jeans. Makeup ads and channels show perfect, airbrushed faces and use false lashes and Facetune software to blur any normal semblance of human skin, leaving impressionable people to ask, 'why doesn't my face look like that?' Fitness channels use filters to make muscles look more defined and chins more chiselled, forcing young (and even older) men to wonder why they can't have those looks even if they try to go to the gym. Family feeds show only the happy, perfectly sunlit kitchens full of cupcakes and smiling toddlers, completely ignoring the chaos, screaming, spills, and probable fights it took to stage the photos being paid for by McCormick or Target. 

All of it is false. The sentiments may be there - drink water! do yoga! enjoy family time! treat yourself to that new bag! - but the deception of beautiful and altered photography is so distressingly common that studies have shown that going on on social media can actually be bad for your mental health because of the very human habit of comparing yourself to others. Of course we want what we are shown- it's designed to look enticing, with beautiful people doing fun things in gorgeous settings. The trouble arises when we don't realize how fake and staged those images are, and that we are comparing ourselves collectively to a reality that doesn't exist. Social media has become one big ad stream, with influencer after influencer popping up to shill for SmartWater, Travelocity, or Covergirl. When we don't realize that what we are consuming is in fact one unending ad, and that ads are patently false and designed to create a better-looking reality than the one we inhabit, we start to question ourselves and our worth. 

It is, of course, possible to log off of Instagram and TikTok. It's entirely possible to cut the cord with Snapchat and Facebook. We know, at the end of the day and deep down, that influencers are being paid and that what we're seeing is not what really happened. It doesn't have to control our lives, and it's obviously simple enough to avoid it if we so choose. It doesn't mean, though, that we can't wish for a bit more transparency in manipulated images and altered impressions. The more we are aware of it, the less we might be taken in by its siren song, no matter how lovely that perfect galaxy cake on a glass table in a gorgeous vaulted ceilinged dining room in the Hamptons may look. The picture may be worth a thousand words to whoever's posting it, but knowing it's an ad and not real life is priceless.
