Materialism seems to be an ingrained part of our modern, capitalistic culture. We spend time puruesing items we need, want, and find novel. We dream of owning certain things and the happiness or peace that those things would bring. Modern society should not be criticized for being too materialistic because it is the only way for modern humans to interact with their world.

Modern humans cannot be blamed for being materialistic as it is a learned behavior. We are part of materialism before we even have a chance to think rationally. Young children are influenced by a never ending show of materialistic goods and packaging. As modern humans get older the need for materialistic items is enhanced with an ever greater development of self. Materialism becomes one of the first ways to manipulate the world. 

In the modern world materialism is also a signifier. It signifies that one has accomplished certain goals or is a certain type of person. The items we own are a reflection of deepest selves, especially the items we don't want to get ruined. Materialism is one way we signify our affection for others. Holidays are based on gift giving and the mindset of giving the perfect gift. We think the items we give show that we understand and care deeply for the other. We reward others with materialistic items to signify approval or good standing. This can be seen in work gifts for good service or school rewards for good grades. Modern humans are part of a reality that is based on societal cues stemming from materialism.

Even though modern humans might be better off without such an emphasis on materialism it cannot be eradicated. People need things to survive, to feel safe, to feel happy. People want to create things for others to benefit from or simply enjoy. Without materialism these avenues of exploration and creativity would stagnate. The flaunting of extreme materialism may produce negative effects such as consumer debt and self-esteem issues, those negatives are still small in comparison to the greater good materialism provides to society. The whole modern economy depends on materialism and anarchy would reign without this flow of money and goods.

Materialism is essentially part of the modern human's makeup. It is learned from a very young age and is the main way to position the self in reality. Modern societies need materialism to keep growing and bettering itself. Materialism cannot be criticized as a wrong way to live since most modern humans have no means physically and mentally to remove themselves from it.





