     Some people find happiness by focusing on their own dreams and personal goals.  Others prefer to focus on the happiness of others or on the improvement of humanity so that they can find their own happiness along the way.   However, I believe people are more likely to find happiness by pursuing their own goals and dreams.
     Somone who feels happiness and pride in their own life is more likely to reach out and help others pursue their dreams.   A person who is struggling in their life goals is less likely to have time time and motivation to reach out and help others.   Although it may seem selfish, it is important for one to be happy with their own life before focusing energy on someone else.   Having this satisfaction and happiness is much more of a motivator to be a positive influence on someone else.   How can one effectively and positively influence someone else's happiness when they are not happy with themselves?   Think of the pre-flight safety recommendations on an airplane, where they recommend adults place their oxygen mask on themselves first before they help their child.    This is not meant to be a selfish move, but a smart one.     
     Imagine a pharmacist and a pharmacy technician working together.   The pharmacist has already acheived there doctor of pharmacy degree and the technician has just begun taking classes to apply to pharmacy school.   Would it make more sense for the technician to spend time and energy focusing on the happiness of the pharmacist?  Or would it be more effective for the technician to focus on their classes, saving money for school, and learning the ins and outs of the business?    I believe in the latter.   One must be comfortable, confident, and satisfied with their own progress toward their goals and dreams before focusing energy on others' happiness.
     Some would argue that this view is selfish.   Some would also say that there is joy to be found in helping others.  The intent is to show that many people who are unhappy or unsatisfied in the pursuit of their goals and dreams are ineffective leaders and not the best mentors.   It is not that they should avoid helping people achieve happiness, but focus on acheiving their own happiness before trying to improve others.   
     People acheive happiness through either pursuing their own dreams and goals or focusing on helping others achieve happiness.   I believe the most effective way to acheive happiness is to focus on oneself, before reaching out to mentor and motivate others.   
