Materialism is a plague that grows larger and larger in the world. Individuals and families face the realities of "wants" and "needs" when purchasing items for themselves. It is impossible to escape the consumerist need to purchase items for survival. As such, everyone needs to evaluate their own purchasing habits. Likewise, they will need also to do some financial planning with the resources that they have been given (earned). Over the years, a rise in individualism has led also to a rise in materialism. Consumers are incresingly giving in to advertisements that encourage individuals to acquire more and spend more. This materialism, while harmless on the surface, may actually be more harmful than beneficial.

The old cliche is that money cannot buy happiness. It is a cliche that was written well before the days of social media and well before the days when people binged on YouTube videos and being constantly bombarded with advertisement interruptions and by sponsorships in every video they watch. By connecting this advertising to so-called "influencers," it connects the idea of entertainment and happiness and contentment with the products being presented. If these items are enjoyed by my favorite people and if they look like they are happy using these products, then it stands to reason that I must have them to be happy, too. This leads to the first problem with increased materialism. No longer are we being sold items by a fast-talking salesman on a television infomercial -- an individual who we know is trying to sell us something. Now it is an everyday person that plays games like I do or watches the programs that I watch or lives in the kinds of places that I live in. We forget that these individuals are still advertisers -- making money off of all of those products that we buy. Materialism can make us suspicious of the "everyday" social media celebrities.

That same materialism also sets us against our neighbors. Materialism is a neverending game if an individual is unfortunate enough to get into a spending match with a neighbor. Consider that both you and your neighbor across the street have large yards to mow and that each yard takes a long time to mow. Now assume that your neighbor has just purchased a brand new riding mower, which not only cuts his mowing time in half, but also cuts the grass evenly and more beautifully than you could ever do on your own. This may lead to feelings of envy, jealousy, or--at the worst--hatred towards your neighbor. Materialism is a game that pits us against those closest to us.

Materialism also leads people to spend beyond their means. Consider again the mowing example above. Let's say you want the riding mower that your neighbor has, but the problem is that you do not have the cash to pay for a new mower. In an effort to one-up your neighbor, you may purchase the unit anyway (or even a better and more expensive unit). You charge the mower to your credit card. This is just one step. You will need to keep up with all of the other new "toys" your neighbor buys, which may land you deeper and deeper into debt.

Generally, studies have shown that people do indeed become happier based on the amount of money they make (not necessarily spend) and that this happiness plateaus at around $80,000 per year. There comes a point, then, where acquiring more money and more stuff has little to no effect on overall happiness.

For reasons of financial stability, being a part of a community, and being consumer-savvy, it is important to stay away from the extreme focus on materialism that has gripped the world over the last decade. Such a change will allow us all to focus on the people and the experiences in our lives that are really the most important.
