I believe that the word happiness can have many meanings because people have different perceptions of the world they live in.  One persons happiness could be another persons sadness.  The entire breadth of the issue must be taken into context before even stating that someone is happy.  Would that person be happy if they knew someone else was sad because of their action?  Could something positive happening to someone actually make them feel bad because they know it's not happening to someone else?  I believe so.

If we take into consideration that not knowing something negative means that thing does not effect us, then people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals.  In other words, ignorance is bliss.  Adversely, if you don't have any personal goals, and you look at life as a trivial persuit or a ride you're simply taking part of, perhaps you focus on what makes others happy in order to gain a sense of pride or being happy.  I personally fall into the category of knowing that I have no answers as to what this life is, so while I'm here I'd like to make others happy since the happy feelings I've experienced have all been fleeting because of people who gave up.  If I make it a point to not be like the people who've made me feel bad, I can make sure that I treat people the opposite and make them feel good.  This inherent fact makes me happy.

The sad fact though is that most people take a more senseless approach to their lives and just focus on themselves and disregard how their actions make others feel.  Ignorance being bliss can be a dangerous thing if you're someone who keeps focus on their own goals despite the fact that they might be harming others or at the very least making others lives less efficient.  In conclussion I believe that the same people who focus on themselves for happiness, would find a deeper sense of that happiness if they decided to focus on the happiness of others.  I believe that being someone who is only able to focus on themselves denotes a person who doesn't have much foresight, or simply hasn't been in a position in their life where foresight ever mattered.
