Not everything is as it seems. From airbrushed models and celebrities to Facetuned Instagram photos, the  modern world is full of smoke and mirrors. Though it seems impossible to escape these deceptions, social media and advertisements are no match for a discerning and critical consumer. It is an individual's responsibility and duty to critically consume the content they are met with every day in order to judge its true value, and today's average consumer is more capable of that than ever.

As soon as the Internet was first developed and social media sites became popular, people started editing their appearances. It has been almost two decades since the rise of social media, which means consumers have had years of practice at noticing when a photo has been edited. In addition, the general population knows that it is safe to assume that photos online have been edited. Therefore, most people are fairly resistant to comparing their "real-life" appearance to a heavily edited Instagram post. Because consumers are able to see through the shallowness of appearance-editing, they are able to judge celebrities, brands and products for their true value. Images are having less of an impression on the average consumer every day. 

There is also rise in the awareness of celebrities' access to resources that the average person do not has. A popular tweet once claimed that the average population isn't ugly, just poor. The meaning of this tweet was enhanced by being accompanied by a photo of Kylie Jenner before and after she became rich and famous. The popularity of this tweet indicates that most people are able to understand that "real" people do not have teams of hairstylists, make-up artists and personal trainers, therefore, the average person simply doesn't look like a celebrity. With this critical knowledge in mind, celebrities, politicians and entertainers are unable to get away with "just looking pretty" and instead must continue to produce work in order to contribute to society. Of course, there are still certain societal standards of professionalism and beauty in place, but adhering to those standards is not enough to be held in high regard by the general population.

People are accepted and lifted up for far more than the heroin skinny, Western ideal of beauty. There are plenty of Creators on different social media sites that represent a diverse range of body types, sexuality, gender presentations and abilities who have followings because of who they are as people, not *just* because of what they look like. 

In conclusion, the modern individual has the online literacy to know when a photo has been airbrushed, is aware of the popularity of appearance-altering filters and has a negative opinion of them, and understands that real people simply don't look like celebrities do. Individuals today are extremely capable of differentiating between reality and an image, because it is one's duty and responsibility to critically consume all content they engage with on a day to day basis and judge its true value, not just if it's pretty or not.
