     They say 'money can't buy happiness.' This may be the case for members of the investing class who can purchase a sports car with the same flippancy as the average person buying a pack of gum at the grocery store checkout. But for most of us, those who struggle to pay our bills, who are saddled by our debts--money can buy happiness. Humans are not innately materialistic, as our ancestors got along just fine with a pile of rocks. It is life under capitalism which breeds materialism in our society, not members of society itself. These members of modern society should not be criticized for their materialistic desires, because the longing for shiny objects is born from a place of financial struggle. 

     The wealthiest members of society are arguably the most materialistic of all, simply because the possess the largest share of the world's money. Yet the wealthy are not the happiest members of society. They'll shell out thousands for a set of pearly white veneers and can't muster an authentic smile to show them off. What is one more yacht to a banker who already has a veritable naval fleet? They are desensitized, and the aquisition of material goods does not produce a boost of dopamine for them.

     To someone who struggles to make ends meet, a frivilous purchase can make their entire day. While the 1% have no worries about ensuring they are sheltered and fed and can afford countless luxury items, a new pair of cute shoes can be a major luxury for someone who makes minimum wage. Should we expect these people to live only by their means and lead ascetic lives? Who are we to criticize someone for indulging in life's small joys? Most of society's members are hamsters on wheels, toiling with no end in sight, only to have the fruits of our labor stripped from us. Living in such an oppressive system leaves few methods of coping. Of all the vices one can have, a bit of materialism very well may be the most healthy. 

     Before one criticizes the population for their materialism, they must first criticize the financial structures that have caused this materialism. Perhaps if workers were fairly compensated for their labor, were not expected to spend the vast majority of their waking hours in the workplace, and had plenty of free time to spend with their families, they wouldn't need to seek happiness through the aquisition of material goods. They could live as humans are meant to, deriving joy from spending time with our loved ones or time in nature. Most members of society simply do not have time to get their fix of happiness through a means other than materialism--it's instant gratification.

     Maybe money cannot buy authentic happiness, but it certainly can buy security. People cannot do the things that bring them joy without ensuring their basic needs are met. In an ideal world, everyone in our society would be free to pursue their interests and spend time with family. This is the best way to achieve happiness. The unfortunate reality is that purchasing little treats is the only available substitute for many. Instead of criticizing society for its materialism, perhaps that energy should be directed towards dismantling the oppressive systems that create and enable our materialistic desires.
