Happiness is the state of being in which one is filled with a sense of joy, contentment, or overall bliss. Happiness is different for every person because the brain chemistry of each individual is different. People can be happy due to their own personal goals or by focusing on the happiness of others. People are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals because it motivates them, places them around similar individuals, and leads to accomplishing their life mission.

The most important reason focusing on one's own goals derives happiness best for individuals is due to the fact that it creates a motiviating force in their life. Regardless of the ultimate goal, attempting to reach that goals gives people a reason to wake up each morning and try and succeed on the pursuit to the goal. Happiness is always found in the journey so pursuing the goal will bring you continued happiness.

The next reason focusing on your own goals brings happiness is because it surrounds yourself with like minded people who are also pursuing goals in a similar vein. When you are attempting to graduate college or run a five minute mile you surround yourself with people doing similar things. By being around people doing similar things you are having social intereactions and building connections with people who enjoy the same things you do. Life is more positive shared with others so by having a goal that brings you great satisfaction, sharing it with another will just bring you even more satisfaction. 

The final reason pursuing you own goal will bring you more happiness is because it can bring you to the ultimate happiness even if that ultimate happiness is fleeting. I would compare it to a sports team winning the championship. Players have worked all of their life to get to the moment of hoisting a trophy over their heads and feel the absolute ultimate joy. Getting to the ultimate goal you have in life will bring you to the Mt. Rushmore of happiness even if it is fleeting as you have to develop a new goal that is sitting upon Mt. Killamanjaro. 

Some individuals would indicate that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others. I disagree whole heartedly as individuals who focus on the happiness of others are prone to ignoring their own goals, needs, and well-being. It is not always possible to make another person happy while making yourself happy at the same time unless you have similar goals as I have stated above. In addition, focusing on the goals of others will only make you happy if your personal goal is focusing on the happiness of others which leads to the idea that you are actually focusing on your own personal goals as I have stated above.

Overall I think it is clear that focusing on your own goals will lead to happiness due to the ability to surround yourself with similar people, accomplishing your goals, and the goal creating a driving force in your life. 
