It is probably true that images and impressions have an excessive influence on people. These images and impressions stand in the way of authenticity and actual value. Thus, our beliefs, values, and what we see around us do not reflect the true nature of things.

In consumer-society, and the complex and fast-paced world of today, it is difficult to see everything for what it really is. Consumerism involves the people being satisfied fast and regularly, and by other corporations or people who profit off of them. Over the past 200 years, our world has become increasingly complex and more technologically advanced. Compared to 200 years ago, knowing the names of every business in your town or being up-to-date on the news is a greatly more difficult task, and things like travel, health, and communication are greatly enhanced. This complexity, combined with a fast-paced economy (granted by technological advancement) and consumer-society, makes it difficult to see things beyond their images and impressions. The economy is geared to move fast, there is an overload of things going on to observe and analyze, and profiteers are working to give you exactly what you need.

It is true that even our basic perception is a manifestation by our brain and does not reflect the true nature of reality; for this reason, one could argue that the intent to see things beyond their images and impressions is pointless and hopeless. However, this misses the fact that we can at least make progress towards seeing the true nature of reality. It might not be that the point is to one day, finally, see perfectly the true nature of reality, but to be vigilant and make active efforts to peel away the images and impressions and improve our understanding of the source of what we see. In many aspects of life, one does not expect absolute perfection. The musician does not expect to create the greatest musical piece in all of existence, a capitalist does not expect to become the richest person of all existence, a weightlifter does not expect to become the strongest person in all of existence. The point is to make improvements relative to a baseline. These improvements are meaningful and have real-world consequences.

We may not be aware that we base our belief systems, actions, and values on various images and impressions that obscure the true nature of the world. This happens because of the world we live in. It also happens because of our biases. We may not realize all the biases we have that prime us to see something in a certain way. These biases can be so ingrained that they act quickly and bypass or override other reactions that would allow us to look closer at something. If we believe that see past the images and impressions of everything going on around us is possible, we can begin to see things for what they truly are.
