I have tried the whole "follow your dreams" thing and it ended up almost costing me my credit and sanity. I went to a university online for two years, just to find out that they were not a legit school to begin with. I have went from wanting to own my own clothing line to having to still owe money on loans taken out for a school that really should not have existed in the first place. I have recieved a diploma that is, in the end, useless and a refusal to send me transcripts that most likely were never there in the first place. The two years that I spent in this "school" never allowed me to amount to much and those years turned into many more that followed, to eventually not having to pay that money back and getting forgiveness. 

Because of what has happened to me, I never bothered going to another university, for fear that I will just be taken advantage of again. I have contemplated getting a certificate for something, but never followed through with that one either. I do sometimes feel like I am not worth anyone's time, let alone mine, because I have never been able to find a job that better suits me. And although my credit has finally been able to improve to the point that I will be able to own a house or a car, I have a hard time accepting that only my boyfriend will be able to afford them for us.

And since I can not make myself happy, I do try to make others happy, and it has come to the point of people pleasing. Depending on what the situation is, it does make me happy to make sure others are happy, but at the same time there is a void in my soul that has never been filled. It is not just the terrible  education or not getting that perfect job, but it is more on a personal aspect for me. I have never had the timeline in my life that I truly desire, and that is why I try to make others happy before myself. All my life I was led to believe that I do not deserve to be happy, and when I do feel happy, something bad will always happen to me or the ones that I love.                   
