There is a debate to be had over the benefits of cooperation as compared to competition. There are certainly benefits to both, however, my position is that cooperation is more likely to produce success than competition. Competition is most definitely important, and the world is a better place because of competition. If people weren't competitive, no one would push one another to bigger and greater accomplishments. In fact, animals even compete with one another on a daily basis for food, water, and shelter. Competition is a reality of living.

However, I believe cooperation inherently leads to more success than competition by itself. When people cooperate, the free flowing of ideas leads to better and arguably quicker results than if there were multiple teams competing with one another on the same project. Team sports is a good example of this. If every player was purely out to compete against his opponent just for his own personal stats or glory, the team's performance would suffer as a whole. Because the players all cooperate together, things get done in a much more efficient manner.

A counter argument could be made for competition leading to more success through the lense of the 'space race' between the USA and the former USSR in the 50's and 60's. Because the two countries were competing with one another to make it to the moon, huge advancements in space technology were made. Neither country could have done everything that was achieved on their own, the likely unhealthy competition between the two warring states led to pressure to succeed and they even stole some information from one another at times. But, my position is that possibly even bigger advancements would have been made had they been able to set their differences aside and work with one another towards a common goal. Clearly both sides made strides in certain areas and lagged behind in others, the open sharing of information and ideas would have meant humanity made it to space and the moon much quicker than we did in reality.

In conclusion, while competition is certainly a good thing, it can also be a negative force. Cooperation is never a negative thing, even when it doesn't necessarily work out the best. When cooperation fails, competition begins and things will still get done. Competition has the possibility of becoming a very negative thing and even becoming detrimental to the success of whatever is being worked on. Cooperation is almost incapable of producing a negative result, even when the experience of cooperating with someone isn't the most positive experience. Competition is most definitely important, and it spurs on a lot of the world's and humanity's progress. The world could advance further far more quickly, though, if everyone would just cooperate with one another.
