Images and impressions have too much of an effect on the average person and consumer. We live in a society where we are constantly inundated with bright, sparkling images of perfection.  We're shown models with perfect bodies with clothes we want to fit into. We're shown abnormally colored bright oranges that are dyed before reaching our produce stands. We're shown impressions of people all over social media and advertising commercials who glow with health and life, perfect in all ways.  

Seeing these images can have a profound effect on our state of mind, our self esteem and confidence and our overall happiness.  When we are constantly being shown products and people who are seemingly "perfect," we will never feel good enough. We will question our own worth and wonder if we're good enough. When we see images of things like houses, cars, hair, clothing and food, we sometimes compare our own things to these items. Most of the time these items are unrealistic. Many are maniupulated digitally, or filters are used.  Artificial colors are used also in foods.  This makes people obsess over things they have and don't have, constantly weighing what they have against what they think is better.  

Our current society seems to be living out the "grass is always greener" ideal, but when does it end? When is enough enough? We're creating a society of narcissitics and depressed people, with the average person falling somewhere in between, filled with confusion and discontent.   Sure, there may be bright sides to seeing images and impressions-- advertising can help people decide what they want.  It can help people to make choices.  It can help people compete and strive to be better.  But, when it's unrealistic and out of reach of most ordinary people, the opposite happens. It becomes damaging to constantly weigh your own self worth against others due to what you own or don't own.   

When it comes to politician and public figures, society seems to place an emphasis on how you look, not how you act.  The role models set up for our children are people with low morals, who often engage in criminal or disgusting behavior, but we let it slide, because they are the face of celebrity. We accept adultry, dishonesty, violence and other immoral behaviors as long as they are wrapped up in Ralph Lauren Dress, with a Gucci handbag and a riding in a Lamborghini to the latest red carpet event. We accept politicians who are immoral and unethical as long as they look good and put on the charm.  What you see is not always what you get in 2022, but the media and it's advertisers make sure what we see is always something expensive, beautiful and over the top.  It's time to start judging people and items based on their usefulness and their worth. Decency and inner beauty last much longer than cheap plastic in products OR people. 

If we could get back to what matters and focus on our spirtiual and emotional sides instead of on our physical and materialistic sides, we might be better off as a society. We would live in a less competitive world with less depression and anxiety, less competition and more overall harmony.  But, for now, we will continue to turn on the TV and let the latest public figure dictate for us, what we should buy, wear, drive and display. We'll continue to look up to and vote for politicians who turn on the superficial charm, with their trophy wife on their arm, all the while they're lying to our faces.

I've seen countless examples in my own life of people who tried to live up to the unrealistic expectations shown to us by celebrities and public figures and all they usually end up with is debt and disappointment.  Colorful packages in stores can easily be compared to superficial people.  You can see someone so "put together" and so nicely dressed with the perfect hair, but they're not beautiful when they open their mouth and they are hateful or ignorant.  The same happens with products, as with people.  No matter how nicely something is packaged, it doesn't mean it's high quality.  People should learn to focus on the inner parts of things, what is inside, what someone is made of, or how much you really need a product to be content and happy.  The best things in life often are not objects we buy with an entire paycheck.  They're usually moments and experiences.  I'm not sure how we got where we are as a society, but I hope things can change and go in the other direction because depression levels increase every year, as do anxiety levels. If pretty things in pretty packages was making us happy, this wouldn't be the case. 

There's nothing wrong with wanting or having nice things, but it's all about moderation and where you place importance in general.  The lines of reality on social media blur daily, and we see examples like the blonde haired young woman who was killed by her boyfriend on a hiking road trip.  To the average person, she had the ideal, free spirited life.  Her social media depicted bliss.  People idolized her and people like her, but in reality she was being abused and struggling. Things are not always what they seem on the surface and we should all start to focus more on ourselves and what is really happening, so we aren't disillusioned and disappointed. 
  

Sidenote for researchers:
I am a very fast writer, so it said I was inactive at the end of this survey because I finished the required word count.  Please do not penalize me for this, as I followed all other instructions and spent over an hour doing this. If you want me to keep typing about the topic, I can, but it will be redundant, and I've always learned about writing, that less is more if you say what you can say succinctly. I gave the required length but would have had better quality without being so redundant, because I said what needed said in the first 600 words, but I will type more, as requested, to stay active.  
