What brings you happiness? Is it the pursuit of your own goals? Is it giving to others when they are down? Is it monetary? It is materialistic? Happiness can come from many sources. Seeing a child smile, buying a new item you've been saving for, going on an anticipated trip with a friend, paying for someone's dinner. Ultimately though, you will not find happiness if you are only focused on yourself.

Materialistic items will only bring so much happiness. Eventually that item will loose it's appeal. Only pursuiting your own goals will leave you lonely. Spreading kindess, and joy will foster happiness around you, and that is infectious. Paying for someone's dinner and seeing them light up can bring a sense of euphoria for the remainder of the day. If you focus on bringing others happiness, it will bring you happiness too. 

It is true that personal goals can bring happiness. But what will you do once you reach those goals? Imagine you want to become a successful business person and will do anything to get there because you think it will bring you the ultimate happiness. You ignore friends, you only associate with other business people. You do not pay attention to anything else but your goal. When you reach your goal, you will be alone. Your associates will not be your friends because they will be just like you, wanting to reach the top of the ladder, and make money. Your reputation could or could not be bad, depending on how far you went to reach your goal. Your happiness will be temporary.

A couple years ago for christmas, I did a couple christmas drives to provide christmas to some lower income families. The happiness and joy it brought to the families receiving these gifts, along with the spirits of those who helped provide it is unmatched. It brought so much joy and fun to see these kids open presents that they thought they weren't going to get. It made me happy for days. Starting small could look like complimenting someone on their outfit, or how much you enjoy their company. Paying for a drink behind you in the coffee line.  Focusing on others, and trying to make the world a better, happier place is ultimately what's going to bring happiness to oneself.
