We live in the age of stuff. Techno-stuff, media-stuff, food-stuff, and stuff-online--among many, many others. It's easy to get overwhelmed by just how much Stuff is out there, because think about it: if just one million of the billions of people on the planet produced just one Thing--whatever it is--every day (could be a news article, a social media post, a phone app, a new recipe...), then in seven days there would be at least seven million new Things for you to peruse, look over, absorb, read, utilize, etc. As our population grows, our Stuff grows, and it's all too easy to start to think, well, this must be materialism. But is it? How do we define materialism today, anyway?
It used to mean the accumulation of so much Stuff that you truly had too much, and it wasn't just stuff--it was stuff acquired for the sake of impressing others or for feeling like you had all the latest stuff, but more than anything else, it was supposed to be Stuff you just didn't need. But who defines what we need, anyway? Isn't that up to each of us individually? And doesn't it change all the time? "One man's trash is another man's treasure" sure seems applicable. One person's materialism might be another person's prudent investment. 
It can be dizzying to keep up with just the physical Stuff--clothes, technology devices, media like books, movies, games, etc. But now there is what can easily become even more overwhelming--Stuff that is purely digital. Can you become materialistic when it comes to that? Too many social media accounts? Too many recipes you've bookmarked online? Too many news articles you read yesterday? Does 'materialism' even have a place in today's world? 
The question changes with the times, and so, too, does the answer, so: it depends. It depends on who we're talking about, and what they have, and why they have it, and what it costs--them, and society. After all, who are you harming if you own 100 cars? Well, the environment, for one, if you actually drive all 100 of those cars versus just the one that somebody else has. 
But is it materialistic to just own something by the sheer numbers? What if somebody who makes $12,000 a year owns 500 different air fresheners for their car? Are they materialistic when it comes to air fresheners? That sure seems hard to say. But let's flip it and say somebody who makes $120,000 a year has the same thing--one car, 500 air fresheners. One person's quirky indulgence suddenly becomes somebody else's greedy uselessness. 'What a cute collection' turns into 'what on Earth does anyone need so many air fresheners for? You have all that money and look what you could be actually be spending it on!'
So should modern society face criticism for materialism? It depends. I'd say, the higher the income, the more likely you are to find it. But how many times have we heard of people with lower incomes spending their money unwisely on splashy things when they'd do better to save it? But who is to actually say that? So when it depends, does it really depend on who we're judging--or on who is the one doing the judging? 
Like anything, we might do best to look for the most concrete, logical answer--it depends a whole lot less when you can see a phsyical, quantifiable result. Materialism starts to really matter and 'depend' a lot less when things like consumption and collection of plastic goods leads to miles and tons of plastic pollution in the ocean. Or when so many people want the newest, the latest device and discard the old one that was in perfectly find working condition--and all that waste accumulates in landfills, and products come out cheaper, faster, and lower quality to keep up with demand so that even the most cautious consumer can't keep their device as long as they used to from simple wear and tear. 
So in modern society, we might be best served by not looking at the individual for being materialistic--but at the result of lots of individuals being materialistic (perhaps?) which leads to not-so-perhaps consequences for the world at large. 
