'It's only a paper moon' are the words of a song I heard in a movie years ago. The words stay in my mind as I look at the glitzy, slick advertising that is so common today.

We live in a culture where looks seem to be everything. It's in our packaging, promotion, and communication. Whether in a store, shopping online, or watching television commercial retailers are trying to lure us in to sell us a product. 

First, the packaging will many times be so over-the-top that a tiny 2-inch object may be packaged in a 12-inch square container. Colors are tested by  manufacturers and advertisers and the best used to create psychological responses within people to want the product.

Promotions are set to hit email boxes at just the right time and in just the right sequence to rope us in; to make us feel that we need that product right now. Ads are set to pop up any time we are on social media to make us want something we viewed recently. We must purchase it now, while it's on sale, even if it's not really what we need.

Communications used are tested jingles that make us remember, feel nostalgic, or inspire us to keep up with what's on trend. All to sell more product, whether it is a quality product or not. Trigger words are used that will get us to add the item to our cart.

This happens not only with products but also individuals. Politicians, CEOs, entertainers have boughten into this marketing scheme. They package, promote, and communicate themselves using the same tools used to sell an object or product. They'll often lie and tell lies about their opponent to get their way, to sway our minds. 

Some say this is necessary, it's just marketing and part of what you do to get your product into the culture. They say there is nothing wrong with telling little white lies or studying human behavior and using the very best knowledge available for noteriety.

I ask, what are we teaching our children about reality, what is our culture turning into when we replace the real moon with a paper moon and say it's ok?
