        Materialism is a dividing topic in our modern society. We as a people consume so much and it's gotten to the point where people buy things to stay trendy and relevant and not actually because they like it or will get much use out of it once the fad dies. Of course we have free will and people theoretically should be allowed to buy what they want, after all they worked hard for that money, but at the same time could all of this materialism be wrecking our planet? How many of those trendy clothing items end up in a landfill that winds up pollutating our oceans? Is showing off an expendable wardrobe really worth the pollution of our Earth?
         We have a problem when it comes to materialism. Everything in our society right now seems to revolve around being noticed and approved by others in society, and in 2022 that is via social media. Influncers, tik-tokers, youtubers, models, anyone with a large platform has an influence on the public. A lot of fashion trends take off because of this and we end up with brands like Fashion Nova and Shein. Fast fashion is definitely it's own problem but it's not black and white. For lower income people like myself, I look towards these and similar brands to get affordable clothing, but on the other side of the scale more well off individuals look at these brands for trends. In shopping via trends it leads to this unfortunate era where once the trend dies the product is no longer useful to them and they discard it. Sometimes if we're lucky it'll wind up in a thrift store, which I think thrift stores are great in that they recycle clothing and keep them in circulation longer. The issue with fast fashion is they don't exactly hold up for very long and may wind up in a landfill anyway. Shopping solely for trend is a materistic trait that needs to go out of style because it leads to so much waste when the trend dies.
         As time goes on we as a people shift, and one of those lifestyle shifts would be "minimalism." Being minimalistic has become a trend in itself and I wouldn't call it a bad one. It revolves around the idea that you don't need to be materialistic in order to be happy. You don't have to own a bunch of stuff in your house that you're not actually going to use, or an expansive wardrobe you won't actually wear. This kind of lifestyle has lead to a big boom in the tiny house movement. As prices for homes skyrocket and wages stay the same it is harder and harder to be a home owner, so a lot of millenials have turned to the tiny house movement. It's a great alternative that doesn't eat up the bank but you have to be willing to compromise on space, thus leading a more minimalistic lifestyle.
        Of course tiny houses aren't for everyone but the take away there is that we don't need to have the largest house on the block. We don't need to have the most expensive wardrobe out there. I understand liking and wanting for things, and if it's something the person is really passionate about then I get it, I do. The issue is when it becomes excessive. The more we spend, the more we produce, the more we throw away, the worst the planet gets. There are 7 billion of us humans on it at this point and we can't afford the amount of product waste that we currently have. If our society wasn't all about one uping each other, getting likes, and getting approval from others, we'd be less materialistic. In doing so we could prolonge the time that we will be on this Earth, for our childrens sake.
