       When i was a child i remember the topic of materialism  being talked about at my local Kingdom Hall. We were warned against becoming too materilistic for things because it distracts us from what is truly important in life.  There are things such as family, friends and pets that can never be replaced like a phone or computer can and yet we seem to covet those things as if they are more sacred.

         As a society we become so caught up on what we have and what other have that we loose sight on what really matters.  We buy and attain so much to distract ourselves that at one point in the  near future we will have no point but to look back and see what we've done to ourselves and our planet. The rise of social media has greatly impacted societies veiws on wordly possesions but the question is, is it for the better or the worse? If your asking me i would have to say the worst is winning the race. 

         As social medias popularity has made an all time high we have noticed the rise of one particular new word Influencer.  Which is exactly as it sound a person that influences other to be a certain way or infact to buy things from a specific brand.  When living in a society where thousands of people follow one person and buy products to be like them how can we possibly become less materialistic. When comparing the follwers for someone like Kim Kardashian and christian vegan that only buys organic the contrast is staggering.

         What's even more infuriating is when influencer's like Kim Kardashian boast about their minamilist lifestyle but also post pics wearing top of the line designers creating the urge for other to buy from the same brand. How as a society are we supposed to fix what is broken if we keep getting mixed signals and keep relying so much on what others think. The best way to limit the spread of materialism would be to encourage others to rely more on experiences in life rather than objects. Instead of spending 900 dollars on a pair of boots spend a  weekend at a bed and breakfast. The boots may last a few years but the memories of a family get away can stay with you a life time.  
         
          I can't claim to be without fault, i too would consider myself very matierialistic particularly when it comes to jewelry.  However I belive my behavior is a learned one from my mother that she learned from her own mother. So the question is how do we break the never ending cycle as a society and try to refocus on people rather than possessions? My local preacher would say its an easy question to answer, all you have to do is turn to god and let him guide you in all thing. An easy statement to make but extremely difficult to practise without the help, fellowship, and community of a congregation to help keep you accountable.
