Happiness is subjective. There are many opinios about them. Sure, some people belive that to be happy is to pursue their own personal goals and just forcus on themselves. It is ture that when you achieve your goals, you would typically feel happy. But simultaneously, sometimes it comes with empty feelings or even depression because now you do not have a reason to live and you have nothing to do. But what about when you focus on others' happiness? Say, you help an old lady carry her stuff to her doorstop and she says "Thank you!", don't you feel happy too? There are so many things you can do for others. It is endless. 

Personally, I would like to support and believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others. When I was growing up, I was told to make others happy to make yourself happy. I could not belive that. It probably did not help that I did not want to liste to my parents like every other teenagers who are going through difficult time. When you are young, you are self centered which is just a step for growing up and nothing wrong with it. After that era, you will be able to see your surroundings and notice others. Especially, when I had a baby, it really changed my perspective. You cannot not to take care of you baby, no matter what. I had a tough time taking care of my baby as I did no have anybody to help me. I was alone. I was depressed, sad all the time. But when I was taking care of my baby, when my baby smiled at me, I became instantly happy. It was like a magic. It was not just a baby time though. When the kid said, "Thank you for helping me!", it was really rewarding. It made me just happy. Then I realized, it was true! My parents were right!! Making others makes me happy.

I also want to belive that peoiple are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others because the world needs more kindness. Happiness is contageous. The more people smile and say thank you, the more will be happy. Wouldn't be nice to live in the community where everybody helps each other and be happy? 
