The question I am asked today is if images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.  This topic is of great personal significance to me.  I grew up being ignorant of many things...but one thing I did know, and that was that I was a genius.  I was able to read at the age of two.  Not just one word or two, but sentences.  I could do math "beyond my years" at the age of four.  Now I wasn't driven to learn like some geniuses are.  But I wasn't particularly lazy, either.  But what I was was sheltered.  

In my home, a home that put great focus on personal standards, but not personal pressure, I was taught to avoid certain things, and I didn't know much about the world at large.  I was a whiz at history, I could ace Jeopardy if I got on the show, but I wasn't "worldly".  I was a good kid, with not a lot of knowledge about human nature.

That changed at about 16.  I was late to puberty, but when it hit, I wasn't ready for it.  I began to have feelings for my best friend's wife.  Normal attraction, not some overbearing lust or anything like that, but I didn't really know what it was at the time.  I thought I had sinned or offended God.  And that led to shame, and shame led to loathing, and loathing led to porn.

I barely knew what it was at the time, even at that age, but curiosity led to searches, searches led to learning, and learning led to experimentation.  I began getting into serious stuff.  I masturbated often to fantasies that seemed harmless.  I wasn't hurting anyone, right?  I mean, I wasn't imposing these fantasies on others.

But I was in college.  My grades were hurting, my spirit was hurting.  I became aware that I wasn't growing as much as I could have been.  I was still learning and growing and loving, but it wasn't full or complete.  I began to blame others for my problems.  I began to genuinely hate others.  I ended up hurting the people I loved, emotionally, physically.  I was becoming worse.  Some would have called me a monster.

I wasn't downright evil, though, or super sociopathic.  In looking for purpose in images and things that left me wanting, I simply was lost.  I wasn't much of a help to anyone, and I hurt people.

Seeing where I had come, I began to pray.  Now, the "Christian cliche" is that everything was fixed in a moment.  That didn't happen for me.  But I did begin to change.  As I made changes, I reduced or stopped looking at porn and started looking for purpose.   I found that purpose largely in the little things.  Day-to-day small things that meant something.  Maybe they wouldn't seem like much to the onlooker who has millions to invest in charities, but they made a difference.  The actions planted seeds, and maybe encouraged people to be a little happier.  After all, that was how I was growing.  A little happier, moment by moment, day by day.  

And weirdest of all, my weaknesses became my strength.  My experiences with porn turned into a benefit.  Something that could help myself, and something that could help others.  Now I'm not working at some grand charity or foundation or anything like that, giving speeches.  But it's like the things that ruined my life before aren't such detriments anymore.  I have had relapses and addictions, even serious ones, even those worse than what came before.  But that is a story for another time, because the point remains that people can change, and how they respond to what they see is more important than the things they see in the first place.

So do images have a huge effect on people?  Yes!  Very much so.  Do they ruin peoples' lives?  Having gone through porn addiction, and lots and lots of problems because of it, I don't think so.  My opinion is no.  No image can ruin a person's life of itself.  But it can present a trial.  One that can be passed or failed.  And I think that choice is up to the person.  And any failure doesn't have to stay a failure.
