I think yes they do, but is it bad? I mean images trigger your mind into having a better or worst experience just like smell or taste. I am a very visual person so the looks of something plays a huge part in my enjoyment. Like for example a bag of cheetos, the packaging is bright orange with Cheester Cheetah on front. It gives you a mood and a feeling before you even start to eat the cheetos,  I think it  adds alot to the experience makes the product better since imagination at least for me play a huge part in my enjoyment. Like a package of M&M's with the life like M&M guy on the package, very human like and it gives the product personality and when you are eating it its more of just a product its something special, because if it was in another package and not an m&m would not be quite as good.  For me a  package of oreos, something about the packaging and picture of the oreo on the front that makes eating the oero not only nostaligic but extra enjoyable. So yeah the packages might be bright and sometimes better then whats inside but they get in your mind and imagination. Like when I was a kid and a new flavorful kid cereal came out.  The packaging was what made me really want it and yes the product might of been good but... but I already decided at the store I liked the cereal and looking at the package while I ate it made it better. Like remember gusher ads in the 90's the image and impression even on the packaging made you think magical jelly juice would come gushing out was pretty dissapointing the first time I had one and it didn't gush like the package but even still because of my imaganation the product was better because I made up my mind it was cool and once my mind thought it was cool took more to change it. I think a nice package, images, etc make a huge effect and makes things better or worst if something comes in nasty packaging or its all beat up and nasty in a way that my mind is turned off its hard to turn my mind back on. Like when you order a meal and it looks gross or the cafe serving it dirty, does not matter how it tastes or has to be extra extra good to change your mind because your mind has already decided it is nasty. Same thing with a nice package, it makes your mind think its going to enjoy whats inside. So say the food inside is not as good as the impression the package gave, still made the experience better. So yeah packaging make a huge effect on people but think makes life more fun and the world a better place. Imagine only boring dull packages, would make life especially childhood so much more dull. 
