I believe happiness comes from within and true happiness comes from helping others.  When you put yourself out there and help someone you are awarded so much happiness because you did something that was unselfish and truly rewarding.  Making others happy is something everyone should strive for because in helping achieve others happiness you find your own true happiness within that situation.  This society and this world would be a better place if each and everyone of us would band together to create happiness in our fellow man.  Happiness is the key to living a good life.  It helps with the improvement of our humanity. Happiness looks different for everyone, it could be a simply as listening to a child talk or holding the hand of a sick person or maybe even paying for a coffee for a stranger.

Happiness can come in all kinds of shapes and sizes from a small childs smile to an animals nuzzle.  It is in our nature to strive for happiness, to lessen the burdens of others if we can, to see the beauty in the world can make us happy.  Happiness is looking at the world with different eyes, to see the beauty in nature and all that God has created for us.  It's holding the newborn baby for the first time or getting that first pet either a kitten or a puppy.  It's graduating from college and making your parents proud or maybe going on that first date and believing you may have found your soulmate. It maybe getting that first job not sure if you are even qualified for it or buying your first car and knowing all the hard work you did to save to buy it.  

Happiness is knowing you may not succeed in everything but you have at least tried your hardest, you did your best.  Happiness is something we all try to strive for and most find it in places they never knew it could be found in, others are still looking for it and there may be a few who will never find it no matter how hard they try.  Happiness is 
something you have to decide what it is for you.  Happiness is a gift from God and it is important for us as humans to spread it around this world.  It makes life worth living. 


