Materialism. The practice of collecting possesions, of hoarding possesions, even. Our ancestors might have frowned upon it- the monks, farmers, and such- or been overjoyed that we've had the opportunities to try and have so many neat items. But the real thing is- should we, as a society, be criticized for being materialistic?

Imagine this- you get home, exausted after a long day at work, and order food. The new videogame you've wanted has come out, and you bought it on your way home, and you pop that into your system as you wait for your food to arrive. Your job has you working fourty (or more!) hours a week, and you live alone, so cooking most nights is hard.

Should you be mad that you've bought something that might only bring temporary joy (the take-out, the videogame) when you have such little time to enjoy things?

I say that you shouldn't. Our ancestors might have been less materialistic- but they had more free time (and honestly, less space to store items). People such as sustanence farmers, if I remember my facts correctly, worked about a third of the amount of time a regular US citizen does, if not less. They had more free time to spend with friends, family, and with their neighbors, or pursuing crafts of their own. We, in our time, have to grind to survive in the face of late capitalism. We simply do not have the time needed to find our joy in different ways, and it is a lifestyle shoved upon us through advertisements and television shows- you need this to be happy, you need that to have a partner- spend what little money you have and be happy! Do you not have enough money? Grind more! Hustle! Take what makes you happy and make money off of it. Deliver food in your free time. Taxi people around in your personal vehicle. You have to be able to make money or you're useless.

I don't think modern society should be criticized for being materialistic, but I do think that we should look deeper into what causes it. It didn't just appear, being materialistic- but when you work for fourty hours a week, and simply don't have the time to live as a well-rounded, healthy person, something has to give- and our mental health does, sometimes.

Most of us may spend our energy producing and consuming more and more stuff- but what systems are pressuring us to do so? What advertisements, what celeberties, what government officials? It is the fault of our environment for how our society turned out, a carefully nurtured environment, made to produce maximum profit, and that's just it- people are numbers, made to produce and consume. Why is society being criticized for something that a choice few have done to it?
