Images and impressions play a vital role in our current society. Humans are consistenly shown images and impressions through social media and online sources. There images can be detrimental as they are not always portraying reality. When viewing an advertisement or a post by a celebrity influencer, we are often seeing a idealized picture of reality. These images can have a negative impact on those viewing them. 

When viewing images and impressions, it is our responsibilit to attempt to seperate fact from fiction. Images can be misleading and detrimental to the viewer. An idealized image can make the viewer believe that it is possible to achieve that goal or state. Often times when viewing a social media influencer, people can believe that a certain body image or life style is attainable. In reality, these things are not attainable and have not even been attained by the poster. This can be detrimental as the viewer can compare themselves to this image. They may spend money to reach a goal that will never be reached. This can also impact the mental health of the individual. Trying to achieve a perfect image is impossible. Social media influencers employ the use of lighting, posing, and filters to achieve the perfect image and presence. The average person does not have these means in their day to day life. This can be detrimental as people may hold themselves to unrealistic expectations. These expectations can lead to depression, anxiety, eating disorders, and many other health issues. 

Advertising can have a similar effect. When an ideal world is presented, the consumer could have unrealistic expectations. Certain products may present that a perfect life can be achieved through use. However, this is rarely true as life has many dimensions. Consumers need to be mindful of their expectations. Advertisers need to also be mindful of what they are presenting to the world. 

Images and impressions need to be monitored and understood for what they are; an idealized reality. It is our responsibility as a society to educate people about what an image is really showing. Young people especially need to understand how to decipher what is real and what is perfection. Children and teens can be impressionable and need to be protected from these types of perfect images. It is impossible to avoid these images in the 21st century. Therefore, the adults in their lives need to teach them how to navigate the images presented. They need to be taught how to seperate the real from the doctored and fake. Children need to know how to spot the facts and understand and porcess them. 

Images and impressions can have too much effect on people. It takes our entire society to combat the influence of these images. Understanding how to spot facts can be key to halting this influence. Educating those around us can help to limit the influence of images and their impressions. 
