The concept of personal happiness is one, long pondered. There is contrast between self focused happiness, or personal achievements, in helping others, or enabling others to be happy. 

One may question, is a human being more likely to be content, by focusing on their own self achievement or joy, - in contrast to, focusing on other people's joy? 

Hope and joy can be found when volunteering, doing service work, and also listening to others, to help them achieve their own goals. Psychologically, therapists may recommend service work for depressed patients, to help them focus on other areas where they can feel a sense of accomplishment or action. 

Also, with gender demographic focus culturally, there are unconscious bias expectations, with whom it is expected to be "enabling or codependent" with another, which can cause unfair expectations at times. 

Thus, support groups like Al-anon or ACOA, focus on imbalanced enabling and codependent behaviors, with addicts or alcoholics. In this case, enabling or helping others, can be toxic or not healthy. Mental health boundaries are important to consider, when evaluating. 

Conversely, joy and hope can be found with self achievement, and self focused goals. There are studies about accomplishment and wealth, that state that people who write down their goals, are 60%+ more likely to accomplish their goals. It can be tremendously validating to set a goal, complete the task, and feel accomplished. This reinforces balanced self esteem.

Balance is key when considering what to focus on, although these choices need not be false dichotomy in perspective. Much like science and intuition, it is a combination and balance of both, that provide a more even, and wise perspective. 

Ultimately, a therapist or psychologist would provide an educated perspective, when evaluating one's time and focus. Personal happiness is a garden best tended with consistency, and may be found, in a multitude of targets - with focus on self, and others, too. 

One final note - as part of my Buddhist meditation practice, I daily spend time, visualizing focus on the well being of others, while self focused and autonomous. One practice in this meditation time, is to visualize those you love,  and see them as happy, & loved.

In this particular singular action, I accomplish both self focus, and also focus on other's happiness, with the same act of meditation. Personally, I find this practice to be very rewarding, and intuitively, it seems to help soothe conflicts, or enable joy in others, and myself. 
