I have been doing small tasks in my community for over a decade. I wanted to raise my children to learn that kindness goes a long way, and brings you a sense of happiness and peace. I led by example. From collecting canned goods for a food bank to becoming a PTA president, I have had my share of making others happy. It is rewarding, but I have discovered there is a little voice in the back of my head that says, "what about me?" more than once. Is the neglect of my own personal needs taking a backseat to making others happy?

Happiness can be found in many things in life, but until you take the time to feed your own soul, I believe a person cannot truly be happy. Some dreams are out of reach as you age, but small goals will give you a sense of accomplishment on your path to happiness.

In my time as a PTA president, a staff member at the school was diagnosed with cancer. To help her, I threw a community bingo night, raising several thousand dollars for her treatment. The happiness and joy I felt giving her that money was incredible. But, that little voice was still in my head. I had not dealt with the grief I had experienced with my own family member's cancer struggle. I was happy for someone else, but I wasn't truly happy myself. I discovered the only healthy way to help myself was to put my happiness first. I got through this dilemna by talking about my grief, telling people open and honestly I am not "over it" and doing as well as they assume I am. Until I could get my feelings out in the open, I was not a happy person inside. I have been told many times that I have done wonderful things in the community, but I didn't really believe I made an impact until I was able to find inner peace.

Some will say that if you do enough good in the world, you will become happier. I agree with this, to a point. Leave your mark, make people think of you fondly, greet others with a smile... you have surely heard all of these statements and more. They're true, but until you can wake up in the morning and be genuinely happy to be alive, nothing you do will truly make the impact you're hoping for. Your momentary feeling of happiness will escape just as quickly as you found it if you aren't taking time for your own needs.

What is the secret to happiness? Starting from within. It's easy for me to throw a party for 300 elementary school children and be able to relish in their smiles. One thing I have learned is that personal goals can be some of the hardest ones you will ever meet in your lifetime. Whether it be weight loss, eating better, or going for a simple walk around the block, we put off the most important things for ourselves because we are simply too busy, or don't want to make that time. I believe it is crucial to work on your own happiness so the good you do for others will make everyone involved happier in life.
