Most of us shop at Costco, right? Let's assume you said yes. When you're browsing through the constantly changing aisles, how often are you putting things in your cart that you didn't have on your list? It's something that happens to me all the time, usually because of nice pacakaging that just suckers me in. 

As a fairly new mom, I want to give my son all the best I can afford to give him while also catching some good deals! I would previously go to Costco and pick up the Huggies version of diapers because that's what's considered the best right? Well after watching some "Costco saving hacks" video on YouTube, I learned that the Kirkland brand diapers are the exact same Huggie diapers in different packaging! Excuse me?! All this time I've been paying at least $10-$15 more! It seems we are programmed into thinking flashy aesthetically pleasing packaging equals a better product when most times you're paying for the packaging and brand versus the actual product costing us shoppers potentially hundreds of dollars a year!

Once this realization happened to me, I started doing more research and found tons of video and articles talking about various products in which this happens i.e. cosmetics, medicine, laundry, clothing, etc... It's everywhere! I've switched to great products who would have unsuspecting packaging and couldn't imagine switching back. 

Now you may be thinking that there's no way you'll ditch your high end brand for a cheaper one, I get it. However, think about all the money you are throwing away by choosing a better looking product or a brand name. 2-3 years of switching to a less known brand (who might actually make a better product) could equal to a few months rent! It's true that there are some products that are actually higher in quality and are worth the cost but if you're spending that much, research should be done to save you a pretty penny. 

Next time I go to Costco, I'm choosing the Kirkland brand knowing that I'm saving money, getting the exact same quality, and can save money to buy my son some cute outfits. I encourage you to look up "dupes" for your favorite items and see how marketing is costing you thousands of dollars just to fit into the social norm.


