As long as humanity has been on the earth they have cooperated. Although they have fought and competed with each other we humans have acheived many a great thing with cooperation. Humanity accomplishes more success by cooperation than they ever could by competition. Cooperation allows for great minds to think a like and combine those great ideas rather than creating ideas with the only purpose being to compete with one and other.
The biggest positive of cooperation is in the name itself.

 Cooperating with some one inherently has more advantage then coming up with something on your own. I was once in a group project in high school. This group had someone who would not work and essentially was forced to complete a seperate project from or group by the teacher. Their project turned out shabby and rushed. The group project turned out quite well exceeding anything the olo memeber could have done because he did not want to cooperate.

 Know a counterargument to the idea of cooperation is the fierce and feiry ideas born from competition. Any idea born from competition is an idea bron from the need to best another. These ideas do not bring about significant lasting effects as they only ever work to essentially defeat the other person in the competition. The idea that competiton brings about more success than cooperation is perputated by those who have a need to compete at all times. The competition brings disorder and chaos among to parties all in the name of victory.

I think that people acheieve more sucess by cooperation than they do by competing among one and another is complety and utterly correct. 
To compete with someone is to best them by any means necassary. To cooperate with someone is to come together to create and solve. Which one of these two things bring about more change in the world? the besting of others for the sake of ones own confidence and esteem or the coming together of man as he moves forward with his compatriots to better the world in whichever way he pleases?
