Materialism seems to be the backbone of economic growth, especially here in the United States. As consumers, we are being pushed products by the government and business, trying to get our business, a.k.a money. There are many influential advertisements, and now that social media has blossomed, we are bombarded with an influx of products. From beauty, fashion, and the latest accessories, to gaming, cars, or mansions, it seems materialism has infiltrated our lives from every angle.

We, as consumers, are expected to want products and items with the promise that they will make us more appealing, more attractive, and feel like we are wealthy. Behind closed doors, however, many of the people who own these things are drowning in debt, the exact opposite of how they are portraying themselves to the outside world. With the invention of plastics, the amount of products that people can buy for a cheaper price is amazing. Though these items lack in quality, and feel "cheap", the consumer gets a rush, a high, when spending their money, and once these items become useless, or "trash", the high has worn off so they go back out to get more. 

"More" is the universal slogan, or feeling that people want, but more is not always better. The more people consume products and materials, the more resources it takes and the more strain on the planet for there is a very small percentage of our planet that actually buy and discard sustainably. There is also more stress that comes with being materialistic. From the moment you want to keep up with the Jones', or have the newest items advertised, your brain starts planning and ruminating on the product until it's in your hands. The "more" continues if you regret your purchase and feel guilty as you realize you didn't really need this thing to begin with, adding more and more stress to your brain. You continue to add this material stress to your brain every time you make another purchase. Though it may not seem like it's having an effect on you at the time, this stress combined with mounting debt and the pressure to have more, and continue to be materialistic will eventually cause burn out, nervous breakdown, anxiety, and depression. 

For the mental wellbeing of our people on our planet, I think we should not be pushed into being materialistic consumers, and instead be more consious as humans as to what we are purchasing and bringing into our lives. Materialism can be toxic both to society's mental health and the health of the planet, and that's why I believe the current society needs to change it's materialistic ways.


