For centuries, a debate has surrounded what the root of happiness is.  For some, happiness is derived from the outward reflection of an inward desire.  That is, there is a belief that happiness stems from working towards personal goals and motives.  However, others may argue that happiness is much more likely to be found in the selfless actions of helping others.  In this regard, happiness is not necissarily the goal, but rather something that is found along the way.  Yet, while many have focused on painting the pursuit of happiness as a dichotomy of inward desire or selfless action, it is more appropriate to understand happiness as a balance between pursuing one's own goals while also striving to help others achieve their own happiness.  

Perhaps the biggest mistake in trying to figure out where happiness comes from is to diminish happiness to a simplistic notion that becomes prescriptive for all peoples.  It may be easy to say that if one purses their own goals they will be happy, or if they seek to help others find happiness they will be happy themselves, but that is rarely the case.  Instead, happiness is much more nuanced and requires a give and take between being selfish and selfless.  Consider, for instace, a highly competitive individual on a baseball team.  The player may perform exceedingly well, but the team may still lose.  Or, the team may win, but the player may have an awful performance.  In both cases, their may be some happiness, but happiness is optimized when both the player performs well and the team wins.  In this way, happiness should be seen as something that requires a balance between pursuing ones own goals, but at the same time trying to help others.  When both outcomes are able to be achieved, there is the highest likelihood of happiness in an individual.  

Nevertheless, some may say that to try and uphold both the need for personal fulfilment and the desire to help others is often non-existant.  And, in many cases, this may be true.  However, in these situations, what matters most is the attempt to balance personal needs and others with integrity.  Sacrificing one's character for the sake of personal gain is not a means to happiness, nor is destroying one's life to help someone else.  In complex and nuanced situations, happiness is found when all aspects are taken into account and one is able to act with integrity and dignity.

Therefore, while the root of happiness can be painted into simplistic notions of pursuing one's own interests or something that is found while helping others, it is more likely that happiness is to be found when an individual seeks to balance selfish ambition and selfless actions.  Happiness is maximized when both of these two aspects are able to be upheld.  Or, at the very least, happiness is maximized when an individual tries to take into account the nuances of both sides
