What you see, is not in fact what you always get. I clearly remember Christmas Eve 2011, I was at my cousin's house with her husband and children. We were opening gifts as is her husband's German tradition. One of her twins was unhappy with his gifts and screamed "I hate this dumb gift!" My cousin was embarrased by his outburst and incapable of consoling him. I was embarrased for her. She still insisted on capturing the moment and bribed the child with candy so he'd smile and pose for a photograph to upload to Facebook. The child returned to his petchulant behavior as soon as the image was snapped. The picture looked lovely. I stared at the image on my phone with the caption, "These are my real gifts!" referencing the boys. I had seen the screaming in real time, yet I almost believed the moment to be as beautiful as the social media post wanted me to think it was. Judging by the likes and emoji-filled comments she received, many others found it beautiful indeed.

Images and impressions do in fact have a large impact on people. They way something or someone looks is what matters most, most of the time. Image and initial impression dictates the level of palatibility of any perceived concept. They work too, I see a new product in store with a nifty package or see an ad for a new snack and I am intrigued. Matters not that I have been let down repeatedly by marketing in the past. I buy and I am ready to be possibly dissapointed. Because there there are two camps of people, those who flock to these articficial images and those who avoid them and seek truth even when it is not so pretty. My cousin is in the former camp and I am in the latter.

I didn't and do not gather as many likes as my cousin online. I don't seek them. I elect to avoid posting my extremes. If I am having a difficult time, I wait until it is resolved to post my lunch or a meme online. I essentially go "off grid" until the time comes that my issues are resolved. If I am celebrating a milestone or major life event, I text those close to me and call my family. I do not want to ever paint a picture of my life that isn't real. The majority of people do not feel this way. I think we are all generally savvy enough to know that filters, photoshop, and out and out staged photos are the majority of our social media feeds, we simply choose to believe. The false reality is more comforting and enjoyable than the expensive dish gone to waste after posting. The idea that life is as beautiful as the ring light and makeup makes it look is preferrable to an actual healthy skin routine and getting enough rest. Why do it when you can fake it?

I do not begrude anyone for wanting to live in a reality that isn't real. I find no comfort there and I think it is wholly unhealthy. But I also deal with dark thoughts on from time to time that I wish I didn't. If filters and false captions keep people in a happy place and the minds from wandering to gloomy corners, then I think that's not so bad. It is my hope that when one who generally lives on the sunny side of the street finds themselves in a dark sopt that they can endure. It is also my hope that I can recognize and appreciate actual beauty and light when it comes my way and not start searching for seams. We can all stand to learn from each other no matter what version of life we prefer.
