  In todays society there are many wonderful things that can be experienced.  You can sit down and eat with friends, hike up a beautiful mountain top and sit peacfully by a river stream.  One other thing people can do is fill there houses and persons with beautiful jewelry and expensive things. You can even take the time to help someone in need by feeding or housing them. This desire to fill ones life with these fancy material items is called materialism. This is when one has the desire to fill there lives with possesions and have no other want than the need to spend money.  The materialism aspect of this world is one that can be used in moderation but ultimatley leads to a never ending greed and thirst for more and usually puts someone in a position of hurting themselves over the long run. Materialism as a whole is hurting society and needs to be monitored carefully in order to ensure a succeful life. 

Ancient pharoes, kings, queens ect, have all show over time that materialism can lead to a life of abusing others in order to obtain those things.  In America, most wanted fancy houses and flourishing cities.  In order to do this they took African Americans and enslaved them in order to build such fantastical things.  They also used them to save money taking advantage of them for free labor, allowing them to use there money on carrages and fancy belongings.  Kings and rulers have been notorious for wanting fancy cities known throughout the world and also used the poor enslaved people to make their dreams come true.  If not for materialism, these people would never have been enslaved just to build a small group of people something nice to look at.

When we look at modern society we see credit card debt has spiraled out of control.  People shope till they drop without a care in the world and without any budget in mind all with the swipe of a credit card.  There desire for that new designer dress or suit is so overwhelming that they willingly go into debt just to aquire these things instantly.  Months later, when the bills come due, they are unable to pay and eventualy have these items repossesed. There desire for instant aqusition of these items that were once unobtainable leaves them in a worse position than when they were in the first place.  It causes finiancial trouble which leads to divorce, family fighting and bankrupcy. 

Materialism also takes money that could be used to support those who are truely in need and places is in fancy things that really hold no importance at all.  There are people around the world that dont even have enough water to drink.  The persone that just purchased the half million dollar car has the ability to trade in his car and actually give those people there first clean glass of drinking water.  There are jewels that are purchased around the world that hold so much value they could educate hundreds of children around the world and give them a better chance at succeeding in life and improving the world we live in.  Even someone as a small five hundred dollar Coach purse holds the power to feed handfulls of homeless peope for a day.  

It is not to say that the we as people do not need some material things but it needs to be approached with caution.  There is a very fine line between taking what you need and becoming overwhelmed with greed and desire once all the fine jewels and cool technology starts floating around you. Is the newest smart phone purchase worth more than feeding a town for days? Is that latest Coach purse worth trading a trip to a new location you otherwise would never see?  It's a personal desision but it is one that needs to be thought through carefully and cautiosly.  When we take a step back and look at a world without materialism we see that we have enough resources on this earth to ensure everyone has a happy and healthy life. 
