The movie Cast Away, staring Tom Hanks, is about a man who finds himself stranded on a deserted island. Not a single soul in sight for miles and the life he knew was a thousands miles away. He was desperate to get off the island and the solitude of the situation drove him to the brink of madness. He even made a friend out of a ball that had washed up on shore, Wilson. 

Happiness is something that humans strive for regardless of race or color or creed. The persuit of happiness is such an inaliable right that the founding fathers of the United States enshrined it in the constitution. Happiness is often found through the serving of others, but this is often seen as a means to an end. The act of persuing happiness is a goal oriented affair, it's an activity not something that is passivly obtained. I can find very few ways to be truely happy without involving other people in the process. I believe that contentment can be achieved through personal goals, but happiness springs forth from being apart of something much larger than yourself. If we all help others find happiness, then it creates a reciprocol relationship that exponentially grows communal happiness.

We are a social species, and solitude goes against the very grain of our being. By being social we involve our brethren into our concept of happiness. Our human nature is designed around community and it crucial to our survival that we are uncomfortable in isolation and very reasonable to persume that happiness is difficult to obtain in a vacuum. Service to community is often seen as a knoble thing in itself. The sacrifice of ones own time to help others in need. There is much benefit to society when it's memebers are actively seeking happiness through service to others. 

One may look at a sandy beach and see our stranded cast away, and say, "Can this man find happiness alone?". It's possible that through achieving the basics for human survival that he might find a degree of happiness. Setting a list and then setting check marks against completed tasks. Perhaps enjoying the sunrise over the ocean waves on a clear morning. But how much better would that sun rise be if he was with a loved one, how much sweeter would those tasks be with his children besides him, his father, his mother? 

He returned to civilization. Eventually he was restored to his former life and was no longer cast away. I believe the idea of such a solitary life is glorified in the busy lives that we lead, but at the end of the day we long to share in the happiness of the human spirit. 
