Modern society has been labeled under negative light by many fourthcomings. Many 'new' and upcoming arrangements have catered to the poor image of modern society, the most considerable and wrongfully shamed arrangement being materialsim. This 'new' quirk of the modern era is actually not that new at all and for it to be used against the wave of modern society is rather hypocritical. Modern society should not be critisized for being materialistic as this trait has existed long before many people's lives belonging to this modernization began. To be clear, the argument is not over whether or not materialism is indeed a bad thing, but rather if it should be attached specifically to modern society. 

Modern society did not invent materialism. This practice of consumption and profit has been around for as long as there has been greed amongst the human population. The accumulation of wealth has been seen in many forms: land, simple possessions, and even actual feasible currency. We have seen grand historical wars fought for the sake of material profit and gains time and time again. To label such a trait of humankind as something 'new' seems rather unfair. 

Of course, there is no denying that modern society expresses materialistic values. From hoarders to gamblers and even to people in leadership positions, materialism is everywhere; but this is not a product of the new era, rather, other elements of modernization exentuate the exisitence of such ideals. The invention and progression of modern technology plays a major role in communicating advertisements for goods and services further displaying humanity's greed. Materialism remains to be an old concept only brought into the spotlight via modern societal advancements. 

All in all, modern society does not deserve to be criticized for being materialistic any more so than past eras have been. Materialism has been present in humanity longer than any modern advancement will remain to be. Consideration for opinions concerning the actual concept of materialism an entirely different subject matter.
