Cooperation, rather than competition, is a better way to achieve success.  Working together allows multiple individuals to share skills and resources, rather than undermining or hording assets when people are pitted against one-another. 

As a former teacher, competition can be used to encourage people to work harder in very specific circumstances, but it is not a good tool for overall success. For example, I used to give prizes for students to complete sections of an online course more quickly than others. This was an instance where my students could not assist each other, and rivalry gave some students the drive to finish quickly where they previously would not have had any interest in doing so.  Some people are driven by a competitive nature, and this can be a helpful tool for those particular people. But that was only a handful of children out of hundreds.  The rest still moved at their own pace and, possibly, moved even more slowly because they knew they could not win. Still, it can sometimes be used in very specific circumstances.

However, in all other cases, rivalry was unhelpful in creating a successful environment.  Making students compete turned them against each other. Sometimes, they would horde resources, and they would keep from helping one-another.  Cooperation, on the other hand, allowed students to help each other through difficult topics, and divvy up tasks based on skills.  We often relied on group tasks and projects, and cooperation was always encouraged during homework time.  In many cases, students brought more interesting ideas to the table than even I was able to provide.  In working as a big group, or in smaller groups, students would share their knowledge with their classmates.  

Competition also breeds contempt and makes people work harder to hide their failures or inadequicies. If people are competing, and an individual cannot complete a task, they may try to fake it or do something incorrectly rather than going to an adversary for help.  However, if they were working together, problems would be addressed by many.  

When my co-workers and I were told that only a certain number of us would be given a positive teaching review for the year, and that we needed to compete for those scores, it turned us into enemies.  Where we had previously been sharing assignments, assessments, behavioral plans, ect. we all suddenly shut each other out.  It became a very hostile environment.  Some of my co-workers started having problem students removed from their classes and into mine so that my scores looked worse and I would be dealing with those behavior issues.  In other years, where we were encouraged to cooperate, and evaluations were not competitions, more tenuered teachers would share their resources and step in with problem students.  Younger teachers would help with technology, coming up with fresh ideas, and use their new perspective to help improve the old assignments. I fondly remember receiving pages of assignments from an old Geometry teacher, and returning the favor with PowerPoint presentations and video guides of the upcoming chapters.  

The same can be said for athletes on the same team.  When I was a tennis player, I played doubles. This meant that I had a partner.  Some partners would fight for the ball. They wanted to make sure that they were in control of their court and wanted to show off.  If a player appeared superior to their partner, they could be moved up to a higher level. Thus, they would compete against their own partners.  When my partner and I worked together, we shared the ball and the responsibilities on the court. Neither of us were exhausted running around, and we were not getting in each other's way.

Even in relationships, this is crutial. My parents are competitive. They worry about who is "winning".  They have been in a fight for 38 years with no end in sight, and neither will ever be able to move ahead because the other will always pull them back.  My husband and I are the opposite: we work together. I want to see him succeed and vice versa.  We help each other the best we can and are both better off for it.

Cooperation, not competition, breeds successful people and better ideas.  People should be encouraged to bring their skills together rather than pitted against each other.
