When I click on a Youtube video, up pops a an advertisement telling me that if I wear Axe body spray, I'm sure to get more attention from the ladies. I flip on my television and another ad promises that if I drink their brand of beer, I'll have more friends.  I go to my email in-box, and there I find email after email promising me that using a certain bank can help my finances, that using a specific credit card will help me manage my money, that shopping at certain stores will in effect be striking a blow for racial and gender equality.
Almost none of it is true, of course. The type of scent we wear won't find us the perfect mate. Nobody really cares what kind of beer we drink. Most banks and credit cards are pretty much the same. And companies that insist how much they care about social issues really just want to be seen saying the right things in public, so as not to upset any potential customers. In reality, they simply want to do what companies were created to do: Make money.
But if generations of media messages have taught us anything, it is that humans are gullible, impressionable and often downright stupid. So the more a product claim is repeated, or the more a commercial makes it look like the beer really does make life more fun, or the more a politician repeats the same cliched, meaningless comments over and over again -- people will start to believe it. 
In short, corporate America and the political world has learned what we all should know: That style always matters more than substance, and that using image and impressions in media content can have far more influence than simple factual data. 
Some obvious examples: Although it is far from the best-tasting or highest-quality, Budweiser remains the best-selling beer in the United States, in part because of the company's relentless advertising campaigns. Almost nobody thinks McDonald's has qualty food, but they do billions of dollars in sales every year, in part because they've used advertising and the media to become intertwined into the fabric of people's everyday life.  And of course, there is the ultimate image-only media empire, the Kardashians, who somehow -- seemingly without the benefit of any actual talent or ability -- have made hundreds of millions of dollars based solely on creating an image and a brand. 
Of course, there are obvious arguments to be made that sometimes quality and substance still matters more than popularity or image. Sometimes, intelligent and competent people do manage to get elected to public office There are some financial institutions that offer common-sense, reasonably priced options that are beneficial to their customers. There are restaurants that serve quality food at a fair price. There are companies that make quality products and do their best to let their work speak for itself.
But in a world where people can now make millions by spouting crazy claims or posting inappropriate videos on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok, it's very difficult to succeed without giving in, at least on some level, and taking your place in the hype machine. Silence and modesty don't really seem to be options anymore if you want to succeed. 
And again, the reason is fairly obvious: The image and impression you create in the media seem to matter much more these days than quality, honesty or sincerity. It doesn't matter if you do good work or have a good product or have great ideas. It just matters that you can convince a lot of people that those things are true. And because humans are highly impressionable and often not very well-informed, it works over and over again. Until our society begins to value substance over image, that's not going to change. 

