Empathy is an interesting concept for humanity. Starting at infancy, a baby has no concept of the "other", and even as a toddler/preschooler, it is rare to have a child truly understand what it means to empathize with and understand the wishes from someone other than the self. As these children age into adults, they form friendships, find themselves developing relationships, and begin to understand what it truly means to be selfless and to derive pleasure from helping others.  The feelings of happiness and joy these helpers achieve is richer, more powerful than basic, selfish need fulfillment. Therefore, people do achieve greater happiness and a richer inner person if they focus on the happiness of others over the self.

As said before, the concept of happiness as felt by a small child is very simplistic and surface. When a person achieves a goal he/she sets out to achieve his/herself, the goal itself is basic and simple. Goal: acheive. There is rarely seen the same level of complexities undergone when someone else is motivated to aid in achieving outward happiness. It is not as a simple as goal: acheive. It takes into consideration the person being helped, the relationship to the person being helped to the helpee, the motivation of the helper to the concept being achieved, the effect of the goal achieved on the person who is helping. There is such a layer of emotions and feelings, that by definition, more happiness is acheived because there is more opportunities for happiness to be created.Therefore, the opportunities for various happiness to be felt by the  helpee is much greater than a person simply helping his/herself.

Other people might speculate that inner satisfaction is a greater emotion than empathetic-created pleasure, and therefore fills up the (selfish) human with more joy than any sort of happiness derived from the pleasure created by helping others. While it is true that humans are inherintly selfish creatures and therefore many would be completely satisfied by achieving a set goal they temselves have created, there is a great deal to also be aid about the innate social nature of humanity. Humans live in packs; there is a social bar of needs that must be met. Humans live in family groups, friend groups, even roommate groups not only because life forces them through a variety of reasons/situations, but because inherently there is a desire to intereact. There is a need to be with others. Even modern day humans who prefer to live alone still communicate via cellphone, webchat, text, and internet message boards with others. Leaving a human starved of social interaction in many cases is like starving him/her of mental sustenence. It is interesting to note that in a day where people have so many opportunities to live "off the grid" and be completely and wholly alone, the fact that people still crave social interaction proves that humans do take pleasure in interactions with others. This, when added to the fact that a person is helping someone achieve a goal, makes the person helping even more likely to draw inner as well as external joy from the sitation. Thus, people do find more happiness even though, as argued, inner satisfaction is greatly important.

As humanity dances between the lines of being base and simple with being emotionally rich and fulfilled, it is clear that finding joy through helping others creates exponentially more joy. Maslow's hierarchy of needs places self actualization and self-knowledge at the height of the pyramid, but what many fail to understand is that layered in self actualization is the complex feeling of empathy. This is why toddlers and babies can never achieve true happiness/ self knowledge. They focus on self motivated, self created goals that only give them very base feelings of happiness (no matter the scope of the goal). As adults, humans are also given opportunities to create their own happiness. If they stick to the initial goal:achieved dichotomy, these adults may feel very happy, but the happiness is only on a surface level. It is only when humans are guided by their instrincts and involve themselves socially with others and find out how to create happiness through their realtionships with others that they can rise up from the animalistic selfish sense of self and become truley self-actualized, and, by definition, truley happy.
