Many people say that competition breeds success. In a world where we are in awe of sports stars competing to win a championship, we love seeing the best in people come out when they are competing against one another. However, it should be noted that while those stars are definitely competing, underneath it all, they are cooperating together as a team.

Team sports are generally the types of sports we seem to revere. When a team is loaded with talent, that have been coached and molded, we cheer or jeer them depending on fandom. But no matter where our allegiances lay, we have a respect for a well put together team that makes winning look easy. The Tom Brady led Patriots, that dominated football for decades is had "role players" that weren't giant stars, but knew when to come through and be there to assist in any way that they could to ensure that their team was succesful. To assemble talent around Brady and work together to "do their job" in order to claim the ultimate prize seemingly year in and year out. There are key individuals that are important to a championship team, such as a Tom Brady or Michael Jordan. However, there isn't any way those gifted athletes could win on their own. They need their teammates to accomplish the goal of winning a championship. They establish a rapport, each player and coach having a role.

 Yes, there are combat sports or sports where an individual is able to win a title with only their name attached to the accomplishment. But that person is not working and practicing alone, they usually have team of people behind the scenes helping this individual to succeed. Take MMA for example, where one person does get the recognition, but comes to the cage with a team of people in their corner. This team is there for them throughout training camp, making sure they get the right nutrition and training, helping them to scout their opponents. An MMA fither or boxer, or even a golfer could not succeed without the people on their "team", so to speak. 

So while there are individual sports, that person is usually being helped by a team to accomplish that individual's goal. Team sports may have a superstar or two, but the team is the most important aspect of their success. Cooperation is key in order for championships and titles to be won.
