Often times we hear the phrase, "Money can't buy happiness." However, it is likely that the people that are hearing that phrase aren't wanting to go on a cruise or to spend frivolous amounts of money at the mall. They are more than likely just wanting to not have to worry about having enough money to pay their rent, or maybe they just want to be able to go out to eat once in a while without having to worry about making ends meet. 

In our world today, the distribution of wealth is completely convoluted. The top 1% of Americans control more wealth than the middle class. Spreading that wealth amongst the classes would easily solve so many problems, but the materialism of the upper classes and their lack of desire to give up that wealth continues to cause the lower classes to suffer. Sometimes the upper classes tend to look down upon the lower classes - seeing them as inferior or not hard working. Surely they must DESERVE to be in that class if they're there, right? Maybe they just didn't WORK hard enough? All of this may be brought up, but systemic racism and oppression of miniorities is not taken into consideration. Those who live in lower-income areas are left out in the dust to fend for themselves. The upper classes in their penthouses have their parties, and the families fighting to survive are out on the streets collecting bottles and cans to return at the grocery store for nickels and dimes.

Modern society absolutely deserves to be criticized for being materialistic, because as a society we should be looking out for one another, and taking care of each other. When the 1% literally make enough money to help further prevent poverty, to help build homes for the homeless, and to feed families who can't afford to feed themselves, but instead choose to spend that money on material items that they do not necessarily need - that is inexcusable. The world would be a much better place if everyone cared a lot more about each other.

It is true that the upper classes are not obligated to give money to anybody, and it is also true that the lower classes are not entitled to receive money from anyone. However I don't believe it should be a matter of obligation or entitlement, I believe it should be a matter of principle and just people caring about each other. The average salary of someone in the 1% is $500,000. Using ONE person's salary from the 1% (from just one year) could impact an incredible amount of people.

Although it is human nature to desire material things, it is also an important part of the human condition to take care of each other. Putting your wants over another person's literal needs of survival - that is something that I will never get behind.
