The discussion of cooperation vs competition as the means of achieving great thing is a complex one. Each method has its strengths and weaknesses in helping an individual achieve their goals in life. Cooperation allows people to come together with like minded individuals who share the same goals or aspirations and are willing to work together to achieve them. Competition is more at play when individuals either are not willing to work together or believe they are better off working alone. I personally believe that working cooperatively creates boundless potential for success in ways that competition alone can not provide. 

The spirit of competition drives individuals to push themselves further to accomplish their goals, either through hard work or creative solutions to their problems. However, this creates a me vs them mentality and promotes individualism. The limit of success is determined by an individual's intelligence level and problem solving ability. On the other hand, working cooperatively with other individuals brings in additional, unique perspectives to the situation. These perspectives can be very different, which allows a problem to be tackled from many different angles. Each individual may bring their own unique strengths to the team, which will increase the potential of achieving great things. 

I recognize this in my own life as I have always been more able to solve complex problems and achieve difficult goals by working on a team or relying on people other than myself to accomplish difficult tasks. This is also demonstrated by government structure throughout history. Governments that are set up around a group of rulers have long been more successful and stable than governments led by one, ambitious individual. Working as a team in a cooperative spirit allows you to be aware of your own shortcomings, which are simultaneously supplemented by others working together. The intertwining of perspectives, strengths, and weaknesses creates a stronger, more stable workflow that has much unlimited potential. 
