I believe that appearances really are sometimes not what they seem. I see TV ads for a product and I will purchase this product, only to be disappointed that it did not live up to its selling point. I think this is a bad impression on the company to do this, as it robs a person of what they visualized. 

If a product is an item of clothing, the person wearing it is usually very pretty, and very slim. It is hard to get a gage on what the clothing would actually look like on an average, over weight person. I feel that companies should market the clothing on real people in real life so everyone could get an idea of what it really looked like.

Aside from actual items, there is also the fact that musical stars, and people in the public eye do not represent themselves to be as a real person with real feelings. More importantly, political figures will say certain things if they are trying to get elected and then after the people put this person in office, they completely turn around and do not do the things they said that they would. This makes a person feel like they were duped and may not repeat their actions of putting a person in office as they may not believe them. 

In all things such as images, impressions, whether it be on TV, the radio, concerts, political speeches, it is important to know that what you see is not always what you will get in real life. You need to do research on items you want to purchase and make sure that you are getting something that is exactly like what you saw, instead of just purchasing it based off an ad. My husband once bought what he thought was a little hand held chain saw. The ad looked so real on social media. He was so excited. He did not do any research or look the item up in any way. What he got was a manual saw......Lesson learned.  

Life is fast paced and gets faster and stressful every day. We need to slow down and take every second to really SEE what we are doing and buying. It is hard to decide if ads, speeches, magazines, the news, or anything in this world for that matter is REAL. Learn to see not with your eyes. Listen and feel. Decide for yourself. Don't let someone coerce you to buy or do something based on and ad. 

Images and impressions do hurt people's feelings when they believe them. 


