          What is happiness? What does happiness mean -- do people have a general consensus on what happiness is? Happiness is an ideal that almost every human strives to acheive in their lifetime. People always ask "Are you happy?" Happiness and striving for happiness is on everyone's minds every day. Every day people will do things to give themselves even just a moment of happiness. People seek out contentment and happiness in their life and everyone has their our pathway to finding this hapiness. For some people, they tend to be happy if they focus on their own self and their personal goals -- a much more hedonistic approach. For others, they find their happiness through the happiness of others. I believe that happiness can be attained through both methods, but only when you focus on others is your happiness not so fleeting. It is that happiness that is actually permanent. 

          There are many people, primarily in the Western world who sttrive for attaining happiness in their lives by putting themselves first, by putting their own goals at the center of their lives. For these people, career advancement, promotions, success, and money are what they find their happiness in. These people tend to look towards those they deem as successful to be a model of happiness, often those who are wealthy and powerful. These people make their work their entire life, thinking that by putting all their energy and attention towards their career, their goals -- that they will find true happiness. They're always looking at getting that promotion at work, appeasing their boss, pandering to their clients. Getting that big sale, closing the deal. In this, they think that they will get recognition and through that recognition and monetary gain, they will have all that they need in life and they will be happy. But ultimately, all that they gain doesn't go with them beyond this life. That is just a temporal happiness, dependent on how others may view them. As the old adage goes, "money cannot buy happiness."

      If you focused not on personal gain, but helping those around you -- working towards a greater purpose, I believe that you will find true happiness. When you live for something that is bigger than yourself, it gives your life much more meaning. I think in focusing on making sure others are happy and well, that others are also fulfilled, that you will find happiness and fulfillment for yourself. On that path as you are helping others, I think that a happiness that isn't fleeting can be found. It could be achieved through doing something just in your own community, living in a way where you are helping those physically close to you. But it could even be done through working to help others on a global scale. Living in the United States, there are still so many people throughout the world that are less fortunate than you. In helping those find happiness, whether it is working to solve the hunger crisis, the water crisis, or even various health crises throughout the world, in helping those who have less have more, you can find happiness. 

    Happiness can be fleeting when we are so consumed with consuming -- working more, buying more. It is important to look towards humanity and within ourselves to see what we can do to actually make a lasting impact on the improvement of humanity. This can be done in so many ways. By living selfishly and only working towards personal gain and happiness, we are only living for ourselves. We may be happy in the moment, when we get a new car, new clothes, a new job. But that happiness doesn't stay with us. When we talk about the moments when we were happiest, it often involves being with the people that we love, showing that it is in other people that we find our true happiness. As humans, we are menat to be in community with one another, we are meant to help one another. So when we look at the bigger picture and see the position we are in to help those less fortunate find that fleeting happiness in their own lives, I think we can see that we will find true happiness. 



