What do you want be when you grow up? A question asked to many children throughout their growing years. Many answer in the forms of occupations such as astronaut or ballerina. How many of those same kids chose happiness as a result of helping others? Well we do have our doctors, nurses, and vets but the goals that these children present seem to be very personal either way. As they grow older it only solidifies that their happiness is coming from making their goals personal. 

The pursuit of happiness is usually a selfish act but a needed one. Happiness is a self esteem and confidence booster. Without it, one will be lost forever to the drudergy of our society. With life being inherently individualistic giving to one's self is the best way to grow. Many popular phrases reinforce that idea, "love yourself or no one else will", "only you can make yourself happy" , and "we come into this world alone and we leave this world alone." Television and movies reinforce the idea as well with kids running away to pursue their dream careers that their parents do not believe will sustain them but they do it anyway because it a goals of theirs not their parents. It will only bring their happiness down if they follow the path laid out for them. 

Although life is indeed independent of others, one must not forget that they are constantly surrounded by others. Others who need and depend on them. Bringing them joy like making sure you celebrate your child winning their first art show. A parent would most not likely brush that off and hopefully thinks outside of themselves enough to at least get them a ice cream. Also their is a belief that only western society sees the world so cold, harsh, and alone. In eastern societies being a help to family, neighbor, and society or bringing general happiness to others make the person happy instead. 

With that said happiness is still an act of one needing to make themselves happy first whether that be through your own goals or through making others happy its all a self-indulging act. But that self-indulgance does not make one a bad person anyway its more of how one views the world around them. They just have to make sure they move accordingly that they are not stepping on others toes but no one is crossing boundaries with them.
