Happiness means many different things to people around the world, but in the end people are responsible for their own happiness and must focus on that. Making others happy could well be one of one's goals towards personal happiness,  but in the end no one can be truly happy unless they have satisfied themselves. If every person concentrated on their own individual happiness society as a whole would be a happier place.

Many people live their lives just trying to make others around them happy. Women for ages have stuck with an abusive relationship in a quest to make their partner happy, they accept the abuse in part because they feel it is their fault for failing to please their partner. Instead of trying to please their partner they should be trying to please themselves, and if they are unhappy they should leave the relationship. They are doing no one any favors by sticking around, their misery will only increase as will the misery of those around them. If they were more concerned with themselves and their own happiness, people around them would be better off.

Their are examples of this in everyday like. Kevin Durant wanted to sign with the Knicks, but ended up signing with the Nets to make his friend  Kyrie Irving happy. Now 2 years later Durant himself is miserable because he never wanted to be on the Nets in the first place, but by putting others happiness above his own he hurt himself and the people around him.

One of my life's mantras is that I am responsible for my own happiness. If my actions bring me happiness without harming others, I move forward. By making myself happy I tend to increase the happiness of those around me, in effect it becomes a cycle of happiness. Who has not been around a grumpy and down person who brings down the entire room, well happiness works the opposite way. By making myself happy I make those around me happier, and that helps society as a whole. Life is difficult enough as is trying to make myself happy, if I tried to concentrate on the happiness of others the variables become too great and failure lurks around the corner. By concentrating on my own happiness, I make life around me happier.
