I've discovered,  in my life, that happiness comes from a mixture of both of these ideas.  When I'm focused on a personal goal,  I find that happiness can be a bit of a crap shoot.  Oftentimes, I won't know ahead of time if pursuing a certain goal will make me happy or not. Generally, having a goal gives me a sense of purpose, which can make me very happy or sometimes frustrated.  It really depends on the goal and the reasons for that goal.

More often, for me, my personal happiness depends a lot on the happiness of others, particularly the people I love.  I strive to do things for my loved ones that I know will make them happy, whether it's a special gift or helping them with something they need to do, such as moving to a new home.  Conversely, if someone needs for me to pick up the mail or water plants or feed the animals while on vacation, I'm more than happy to help.

But happiness also comes when I'm able to help strangers.  Maybe an elderly person is struggling to load groceries into his or her car.  If  I see this happening, I'll always make an effort to help if I can. It could also be something as simple as picking up someone's mail if the weather is bad and someone could fall if he or she attempts to pick it up. I try to bring shut-ins meals when they need it, or even cookies to cheer them up.  And, if  I'm able, I'll shovel snow from someone's sidewalk, also to help avoid falling.

I also love to contribute to worthy charities, particularly those that help hungry kids or homeless people.  One of my biggest passions is helping women who are trapped in abusive homes, either to get to a shelter or give them a temporary place to stay.  Doing this and helping homeless people are my purpose in this life. It could be something as simple as providing blankets, coats, and food for people who are forced to live outside. My greatest happiness comes when I'm successful in helping someone to move into a safe home of his or her own.

In other words, I believe happiness is subjective for each of us.   The trick is to find whatever we're passionate about and try to accomplish it. This not only can make us happy, but also fulfilled. I truly believe we all need to feel as if we're not simply wasting space on this planet and that our lives need a clear, important purpose in order to be happy.
