There are several different reasons to believe that competition is the way to creative a productive work environment. However, that may not always be the case. I will be explaining exactly how cooperation creates a lot more success than does competition. In short, cooperation should always be both emphasized and expected.

The first major reason that this is supported by evidence is that failure in competition will lead people to think less of themselves, and therefore, they will probably give up. Cooperation prevents all of this, as it is not necessary. Cooperation allows us to fail together, and then work together in order to make us all succeed. There is no embarrassment in that.

Another major reason is that competition creates hierarchies of infividuals and their own talents. This creates a hostile environment. when you are in a hostile environment, you might be trying to do everything you can in order to win, and this will cause you to lose sight of the bigger picture. Cooperation allows us to get there in an orderly pace, and then we can all share some of that success!

People who are pro-competition do have some great points, though, and they are strong.

The first one is that not all people have the same abilities. Cooperation can bring those who are more intelligent down. This can cause the ultimate goal to be unrealized in the end.

The second reason could be that competition is the law of nature. All other species compete in order to survuve, and humans may be no different. We all want to be known individually for our own successes.

Both of these reasons are wrong, though. This is proven by history. Scientists all work together, doctors all work together, and they have both saved lives and improved the world. There is some great benefit in cooperating.

In closing, cooperation will always win in the end. It shows us all that we are equal, and that we can all succeed together. There is never any harm in that! How will we ever advance as a society when we are not willing to be one with each other? Competition has the ability to make us lose respect for each other. Competition has the ability to make us all lose respect for each other. Competition has led us to the very worst outcomes in human history. Things like war have started through competition, just to gain some power. This has caused things like unimaginable deaths. No one really, really wants that to happen. Cooperation brings happiness. Competition brings negativity. It really is that simple. When we have to choose, all people would want positivity over negativity.
