We are constantly bombarded with imagery--pictures and photos assault our senses all day long, on television, on the internet, on our phones, on billboards, and elsewhere. Everywhere we look, there's something to see. All too often, we take what we see at face value and accept it simply because it appears to be real, to be actual ... to be true. We allow ourselves to be swayed by what we see and rarely do we look deeper or try to peer beneath the surface or "behind the curtain," to take a (very appropriate cue) from The Wizard of Oz. The images we look at may not always ring true, but one important fact does: images and impressions affect people too strongly and are rarely sufficiently assessed in an intelligent context.

Now more than ever, we should approach what we see with healthy skepticism. Computer graphics can approximate anything that can be imagined as a real image on screen. So much of what see in the movies or on television looks real, but so little of it is--often more than we realize. Even the tech-savvy are surprised when a behind-the-scenes segment reveals just how much of a movie set wasn't actually there. Sometimes that accounts for all of it -- the set looks 100% real, but is entirely fabricated via computer. Now with deep fakes, we are similarly fooled with fake "Tom Cruises" or "Barack Obamas" saying things they've never said. It's all convincing and it all looks "great." But the better it looks, the more easily we are fooled. It's when we're most sure that we should be the most suspicious.

Some will disagree, arguing that the "uncanny valley" (that weird feeling we get when faced with a simulated human or robotic humanoid) never really goes away. They believe some innate inner sense will always subconsciously alert us that something is off. But if we're NOT alerted, how do we know that it's not because the technology is just too good -- as opposed to considering it verification that what we're seeing is real? If our standards aren't strong enough, how will we know enough to know that we DON'T know something? Is it possible to stay ahead of technology that's evolving so rapidly?

All we can do is do our best. Intense innovation can be intimidating, but we have to endeavor to stay on top of the latest advances in the tech world, keep abreast with what's trending and what's taking over, watch all the "making of" and "behind the scenes" segments possible to catch those telling tricks and little tips that can clue us in to what we're seeing and whether it's fake or not. This way, we can hopefully keep pictures and other visual representations in perspective, taking them with a grain of salt instead of taking it for granted that they're trustworthy and true. 
