I believe it is impossible for human beings to Not be materialistic to at least some degree.  However, I also believe that materialism should be criticized when it comes to the point that we measure our "worth" by our money or possesions.  This leads to people searching for, so called "equality" by means such as socialism or even outright communism.
It is absolutely wrong to take, by means of taxation or whatever, from those who work to earn a large income and redistribute it to those who do not earn it. 

Humans are materialist, and actually have to be as we need "stuff" in order to survive.  That "stuff" has percieved value and we must trade something of value in order to gain that stuff.  Some stuff is totally necessary, such as food, water, housing, clothing, etc, while other "stuff" is just "fun" or nice to have but not necessary to survial.  When we let our desires for more of the stuff we don't really need outweigh our thanfullness for having what we do need, we get into trouble.  We want to outdo our neighbor and begin to compare ourselves to others rather than being thankful for what we have.  I am no less valuable a human being on my very low income than the richest man in the world.  I have food and a roof over my head.  

No one should go hungry, but it is necessary to earn one's keep.  We are owed nothing in this world but a chance to succeed at life.  We are not guaranteed success.  It does sometimes hurt to see others driving around in fancy cars and living in huge, expensive houses when we can barely get by.  But, those who have more "stuff" pay a high price for it.  Jobs with long hard hours and lives filled with stress.  I am personally retired from a job that was not only stressfull, but did not pay very well.  I never was homeless, never went hungry, so I was still ahead of the game.  Having life abundantly does not necessarilly mean having tons of money.  

The truth is sometimes less can indeed be more.  Be thankful everyday for what you have and do not be jealous of those who have more.   It is true that sometimes people who appear rich have achieved their wealth unfairly, but that is Not always the case.  Not everone has the same skills, knowledge and abilities as others.  Would you think making a hamburger in a fast food restaurant has the same value as performing surgery on someones's heart?  I don't think so.  Let the doctor drive his Lexus.  He (or she) deserves it.  
