Cooperation VS Competition - Competition between the two shows that cooperation is best. 

Environments conducive to cooperation lead to faster and better success of overall projects. The whole is greater than the sum of it's parts. When people come together in cooperation they focus their efforts, energy, and skills in collaborative ways to achieve greater success of a task. Collaborative environments are more inviting. People are more prone and feel more welcomed to join in cooperation than they are competition. Competition drives some people to quit, or to never engage in a task in the first place. Some people fear failure. By reducing competition and creating teamwork environments, it eliminates the fear of failure and makes people more willing to try, especially knowing that if they fail they have teammates who can help them and pick them up.

If three people were tasked to build a house, it doesn't matter who hammers the nails faster, who paints the walls cleaner, or who lays the bricks more efficiently. At the end of the day, the house is still being built and these people coming together to accomplish them, combining their skills and knowledge, leads to a better overall final product. Two or more people will usually accomplish a task better and faster than one.If a group of chef's were cooking a meal, the final product is the only thing that matters. No one cares how efficiently the ingredients are processed, just that they are and the final meal is appetizing. Teamwork also leads to greater efficiency. People also learn more in cooperative environments. Faced with competition, people focus on their shortcomings and develop ill-feelings for those they deem better than them. Humans are driven by inspiration, looking at someone as a teammate instead of a rival makes a person more prone to look at someone as a respected peer, someone to aspire to, rather than dwell on bitterness and jealousy of a rival's skillset.

A counter to this assessment is the overall skill of each individual part. If two carpenters were working on opposite sides of a house with a certain amount of hours in a day to accomplish their tasks and make a certain amount of progress, wouldn't a competition between the two to see who could finish their tasks faster make them more likely to not waste time, to push and drive each other to work as quickly as possible to reach their goals? The counter-argument to this is no, most likely their competition would lead to shoddier work, they would be more likely to cut corners in order the beat their competition. Whereas, the two carpenters would be able to accomplish their goals if they came together in cooperation, helping each other along the way, doing the work more efficiently and neatly while also interacting and learning from each other along the way. 

Two heads are always better than one. 
