        Is happiness something that we feel only when focusing on personal goals or is it a feeling we feel when we are feeling for others? I feel that happiness is a complex feeling. You can feel happiness for your own life but you can also feel happiness for those around you. I believe that putting my happiness before others is selfish and morally wrong. We all deserve to be happy, but it is better to put others before self. Showing selflessness is extremely hard for some, but comes like second nature to others. I am someone that prefers to show selflessness on an everyday occassion, and with that I do put others first. I like to give others something to be happy about, even if it is the fact that they met a personal goal. I think it is very important to show others that they can be happy for other people and not just themself. It is a part of life that is like ying and yang. We all deserve to have motivators, people who listen to us, people who care for us, people who are happy for us, and people who believe in us. Do you belive in your friends and family members happiness? Do you focus on their happiness or do you focus on their goals? Do you find it easy or hard to do either? I think it is easy to focus on the happiness of others regardless of who they are because I know one day I will meet my personal goals, and then I will set forth new ones. I also feel like we are here for a good time and not a long time. 

       I feel like you can feel happiness for everything in life because its a strong emotion. You can feel happy because you passed a test or got a promotion. You can also feel happiness because your friend is getting married or bought a new house. Another reason you can feel happy is because there is a new store or eatery coming to your city, or maybe because your dog is pregnant. I have experienced happiness for a promotion for myself, a move from a different city, my dog healing, and my friend getting accepted to Purdue University. Don't get me wrong, I feel it is important to focus on personal goals, but I feel like those will come regardless if you focus on them or focus on making the world a better place. Personal goals are important to people so I feel it is not just something that sits on the back burner, but it is always in your mind, body and soul to complete. When you focus on other peoples happiness you are enstilling hope and faith into them to be more proud of others as well as to never give up on themselves. 

      I understand that many people might disagree with my stance, because they might be selfish or selfcentered, but I believe that when you are happy for others, then you will be even more happy for yourself. You don't have to be necessarily focus on others' happiness, but when you are kind and supportive of others, they really are happy. People miss out on support from family and friends, and even though their life might be going good, they are unhappy because of lack of support. Showing that you are focusing on their happiness and wellbeing can in fact produce positive outcomes. I believe that people are more likely to be happy when they focus on the happiness of others, because being supportive and happy for others makes the world a better place. 

      In some cultures or regions it is morally wrong to not focus on other peoples happiness. It's seen as selfish and unkind. I feel like in those regions and cultures that it is better emotionally and mentally. I feel like knowing you have that support and those people that are happy, you are happy, is a relief.  I don't like feeling like I am being unkind or selfish. It takes nothing to care for others thoughts and feelings. I am not saying that you have to put them on a pedastel, I am saying that taking five minutes out of your day to care about others really goes a long way. When things go long ways, people tend to remember that day for the rest of their life and in turn the world becomes a better place. It might not be second nature or even first nature for you, but I feel like the world and life as we know it becomes a better place when you are not so worried about yourself that you put others first, then you can focus on what you need to do in the meantime. You can change one life or millions, or you can just change yours. The choice is really up to you. I personally would rather touch lives and change them, than to focus on my goals. I will meet them eventually, but without your support and making sure that person was happy, then they might not be here today. They could have went home and done something regrettable, but you made their life worth living, by being a supportive human being, and being selfless. 

       You might feel that you will be happier focusing on your happiness, however I feel that I am happier when I focus on the happiness of others. It brings me pure joy and completion when I focus on others being happy. It makes my world light up. Everyone in this world is different and unique, which is what makes this world a great place. You can learn so much from people just by observing. If focusing on other peoples happiness makes the world a little better, then I will continue to do it. To answer my question, I personally feel like it would be better if more people focused on the happiness of others around them. I feel it would be a great way to make others feel loved, valued and cared about. Be the change that you want to see in this great, big, world. We only get to live one time in the physical form, so make it the best, even if you are not worried about yourself the whole entirety of it. It is okay to just breathe and focus on everything except your self sometimes. 
