Materialism is one of those things that many people may frown upon, especially in the modern times. Although it may appear as something that is negative at times, but many of us feel a sense of joy and happiness when acquiring something we looked forward to, and dedicated much of our time acquiring it. I feel society should not be so critical of these posessions in the modern times. Although you may disagree, I hope to provide some insight on why it should be looked at differently.

People all throughout my early childhood, to being an adult absolutely did not approve of materialistic things. They were more of a modest and simple, and did not enjoy spending money on things that did not have a direct purpose. I always disagreed as many people including myself, used that as a motivational tool, to achieve success, along with many other things. Without materialistic possessions, I would not be motivated, would have no properly aligned goals, and be too comfortable to grow as a person. Such was the case with many people I grew up with, they often got too comfortable and lost all desire to improve their lives. I could have fallen to that, and easily been one of those people if it was not for certain materialistic possessions, such as money, luxury vehicles, and dinner at fancy restaurants as my motivator. 

I feel that materialistic things should be not be only seen as negative, but should be considered as a sense of positive acheivements in someone's life. Although I agree that there are people who were born with all these things, and did not work for any possessions and proceed to flaunt them. I still feel that we shouldn't base our opinions of materialistic things on that small percentage of the population, who did not work for their possessions. Most people enjoy materialistic possessions and money, came from a more humble place where they did not have all the tools necessary to acheive where they have gotten. Which is also why they may enjoy it more, as the fruits of their hard work, and although it seems like they are showing off, which they may be, I like to think of it as their pride and joy. Even if it may be showing off, don't you feel at least a bit happy for the person who is filled with pride and joy?

There are many things in this world that makes us happy, and materialism should definitely be one to be proud of. We should all be a bit more optimistic and look at it from the bright side. A sense of achievement, someone's reason to succeed, another's pride, all these things are true for most people I've met in my life. Lastly, we would not be here if we weren't always looking for bigger and better things. We evolved from wanting better, easier, bigger, and more powerful versions of things we already have. This is why I firmly believe that we should grow accepting our materialism, instead of frowning upon it.


