Success in today's modern workplace is subjective. With many older workers aging out of the workforce, the dynamics within the workplace are changing. Competition among workers was once a common managerial tool to promote productivity. Emerging research reflects that competion can create harmful effects within the workplace and damage individuals self-esteem. Now schools, employers and even parenting coaches are extolling the benefits of cooperation and compromise to assist in reaching common goals. When striving towards the finish line it is more important to work together as a unified group, than to have individuals trying to out think their competitors. 

To achieve success in a group environment, it is important to identify individual strengths. A group assigning specific tasks to individuals best suited to achieve the objective will be able to quickly reach the common goal. Cooperation allows each individual to provide their best efforts and excel using their personal attributes. Let's look at a group assigned the task of creating a presentation to reflect the company's quarterly sales. In a cooperative workplace the different elements of this task would be assigned to persons with specific strengths. Those who excel at maths would compile the data. Those who are proficient with PowerPoint would create the presentation. The individual without a fear of public speaking would present the report to upper management. The cooperative group is motivated by the success of the team as whole and not fear of personal failure. 

Many claim that competition is a way to idenitfy the strong from the weak. Competition creates a drive to succeed and will compel people to work harder. However,  in the long run competition will create employees who are disengaged and more prone to burnout.  Long term goals would not be met, because the team is constant working harder and not smarter. 

While the debate between competition and cooperation may never have a clear answer, it is clear that long term success is best achieved through cooperation. Cooperation allows for minimal physical and psychological effects that hurt long term productivity. Allowing individuals to utilize their strengths will be more beneficial to achieving success. 
