I believe that modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Everything in the world could be considered to be a material. We use materials every day to do even our most basic of things. We use materials to eat, sleep, have fun, do hobbies, and work. There will never be a time in our lives that we wont be using materials. I think that is always good to have new and updated things come out to help improve our every day lives. If people are happy with the materials they have why criticize them? Everybody should live their lives to make themselves happy. Life is too short to worry about how other people feel about their materialistic things.

There are some people that buys and collects a lot of things, which could become bad as well. It is not a good idea to want to buy everything. My family currently has a problem with this. My sister and niece love to buy things all the time. They also like to keep all the old things that they have bought in the past because it has some kind of memory attatched to it. My brother and I live differently. We only buy the things we need when we need it and things we want when we really want them. Some old materials have an attatchment to me but most things I try not to get attatched to.

So should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? My answer is no. We have to use materials every day. We even have to use materials to create more advanced and new materials. Some people are very attatched to the materials that they have. I do think some people get over attatched to materials and that can become a bad thing but as long as you manage things correctly and have a good mind set on things when purchasing them I do not see anything wrong with being materialistic. I believe everybody should live their lives how they want to live them and buy the things they want to buy if it makes them happy. Having a messy house full of things I will never use does not make me happy. My sister and niece are very happy living in a house full of all kinds of things they have bought over the years and if they are happy why criticize them.
