     Materialism plays an important role in our world, whether we like it or not. There will always be someone who is consuming the goods that are made, as we are always looking for the next best thing. There is also the argument to be made for retail therapy, a very real therapeutic process for some people. 
     Should people be criticized for being materialistic? This question leaves me with multiple conflicting answers. Do I think the single mom who is working hard to take care of her children should be criticized for getting her nails done twice a month? No, I do not. Do I think he millionaire buying his twentieth car should be criticized for this as there are many other suffering without food or medical care? YES, yes I do. I also think it is fair to criticize someone with a lot of money wasting it on trivial things while there are people suffering. I do not think that the mother should be criticized for spending twenty dollars a month to relax, and I don't think a millionaire should be criticized for getting their nails done either. The disconnect comes when the millionaire is spending big money for things that they all ready have and do not need. Yes, everyone deserves to have a hobby and/or entertainment, but I believe that people who have a lot of money are obligated to help out those in need. Yes, I feel it is an obligation. 
      I understand that taxes are all ready a thing that everyone pays into. I do not think this is enough. I think that people who have more money should have to pay more in taxes than they are. By more money, I am talking about people who have seven figure and up incomes. I am talking about corporations who get by not paying any taxes while also paying their workers slave wages. This should not be a legal loophole.
      I believe that materliasm should be criticized, but more when it is being done extravagantly. We should want to help those who are less fortunate than us, and being materialistic isn't going to do it. Still get your daily cup of coffee, and get your nails done, but stop funding space programs that are not needed and buying your eigth house to exploit renters into paying your bills for you and then some. We should want a better world for our children, for everyone's children, and being extravagantly materialistic is not going to do it for us.  

I finished the above in the first ten minutes, but I still have to type so I am going to try to flesh out some more of my opinions on materialism. I don't think retail therapy is a bad things. I don't think buying your kids some toys, or getting them dance lessons is a terrible things. I think we all want, or should want, the best things for our kids. If that includes buying your child an extravagant care, more power to you. I take issue with people spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on things they don't need. I take issue with people suffering in our country because there are people who don't want to raise taxes on the wealthy. I take issue with the politics in our country leaning more towards corporations and average citizens believing that what they are doing is helping them because they are blasted with ads saying how social programs are taken advantage of, and that trickle down economics works (it doesn't, we've been trying that experiment for years now). 
I don't think materialism is a terrible thing until it impedes your actual needs, or the needs of those around you. If  I was to get my nails done as often as I would like at a salon, my kids would probably lack something that they need. I don't do that because I don't want my kids to suffer if I can help it. I also am low income, but I do give money to charity whenever I can, because it could always be worse. It has been worse. I don't want anyone to go through what I have, and am going through with my children because of disabilities and poverty.
I think materialism is great and all, but the companies that are supplying the items that are being bought should be paying their workers wages that mean they don't need other services to help them. Retail stores should be paying more for the workers who have to deal with angry customers every day, people who are angry at them through no fault of their own. That can go with any customer facing position. 
I guess materialism would be better if those factors were in play. The companies want the most profit with the least overhead, so they up the prices of items that shouldn't cost nearly as much as they do, and continue to keep wages stagnant so that the big boss/ people working in corporate are getting the biggest pay out from it. This should be stopped. Maybe the only way that it can be stopped is to be less materialistic? If that's the case, I don't think this will ever be stopped because people actually do need things like food, phones, and electronics. 

