Cooperation is the secret to success in the majority of life. Through working together, people are able to achieve wonderful feats that would otherwise be impossible if they attempted it alone. There are various aspects of professional life that are accomplished through teamwork, as well as personal accomplishments which could not be completed alone.
When one thinks of a team, the image that may come to mind is a professional sports organization, such as the American NFL, MLB, NBA, or international sports like F1 racing, football (soccer), rugby, and olympic events. All of these team sports are only possible, and provide the entertainment they do, because the athletes are cooperating to achieve success. Without the support of their team, a quarterback will have no receiver to throw to, nor will they be able to avoid the opposing team's defense. A racecar driver relies on his pit crew to immediately and expertly handle any malfunction impeding the race. Having a team enables sports to happen as a whole, and without the cooperation of every member of the team, they would never achieve victory.
In the business world, cooperation also drives commerce. An advertising agency has a variety of writers who generate copy, and can build upon each other's ideas to create the most impactful commercial. A construction company has numerous specialized tradesmen who each contribute their particular knowledge and skill to completing a building. How would a chamber orchestra sound if it was missing the entirety of its members? The combination of numerous instruments blend to form the melodies of music which listeners enjoy. To remove any of the above industries from cooperative work-styles would be to stifle creativity, and even stop progress completely.
Teams allow individuals to achieve some of the most remarkable human feats. History may remember the sole climbers of Mount Everest, but there are numerous tasks that have to be completed to safely mountain climb. Local guides serve to navigate the treacherous land that explorers face. Porters and sherpas carry equipment and supplies that allow exploration to continue for extended periods--if Sir Edmund Hillary or Magellan didn't have crews or supplies, how successful could their adventures have been? Would Lewis & Clark (already a team) have succeeded in safely crossing the United States without the assistance of Sacagewea?
There may be star athletes who get all of the attention of sports journalists (who are themselves a team of reporters), or highly-experienced doctors who are solely capable of completing complex surgeries, but without the support of a complete team, they would be practically useless. A solo cannot standout from the concert if there are no other instruments except the soloist. A house cannot be built without the efforts of planners, carpenters, masons, glaziers, and numerous other specialists. A doctor would have tremendous difficulty completing even routine surgeries without the assistance of nursing staff or their fellow doctors.
It is through cooperation that we, as a society, are able to thrive and achieve. Consider the immense, almost impossible things humans have been able to accomplish in only several hundred thousand years. Humans have developed mass-production, theology, philosophy (and although there are individual thinkers, it is their successors who prove, disprove, and collectively analyze their works), nuclear energy, the space program, even development of personal electronics. None of these would have been as successful as they are if not for people working together, compiling their ideas, and perfecting their creations.
