    Some people feel that competition is the most effective way to promote achievement or progress, but is that really the case?  While competing with others might create drive in some individuals, cooperation and teamwork is the best way to create sustainable flow towards the future.  When people work together on a common goal, differences can be strengths.  Some people in the group are going to excel at some things, while others will do better at different things.  This means that they can approach a problem from may different angles, to find the best solution.  When people are competing with one another, their goal is to show that they, and they alone, can solve the problem.  The goal should, however, be to solve the actual problem.  Working together is the best way to approach something that has ramifications for many people. In reality, cooperation should be the goal in and of itself.  Even if the solution to a specific problem isn't found immediately, the group will be better off knowing that they are supported by each other.  That means that "failure" isn't really even a failure.  When people know that they are part of a group that has thier back even when things aren't working perfectly, they feel safe.  When people feel safe, they are free to explore many more ideas and solutions. 
   Healthy competition can be a part of the process within cooperation, but if the competition is the main focus, then important things can be missed.  All group members should know their own strengths as well as weaknesses, so they can approach the issue in a way that is realistic and helpful.  They should also try to familiarize themselves with the strengths of others, as they migh have abilities and ideas that complement each other.  There is far too much competition in the world, and it often just creates more conflict. If people can put their egos aside, and focus on the best solutions to the issue at hand, it will be much easier to reach a solution that will help everyone involved.  When people feel like they are competing, they often feel rushed, anxious, or unheard.  This only inhibits creativity and innovation.  
    The idea that some people need to suffer or lose so that you can win is an ignorant and closed-minded perspective. While some indviduals are naturally more competetive than others, they should find a way to incorporate their competieveness in a way that does not hold others back. Everyone can contribute, and it isn't helpful for anyone to try and keep others down to promote oneself.  Individuals will be happier and healthier when they are being heard and valued.  If everyone on earth were to truly come together with a common goal and an approach of true cooperation, there is nothing that humanity couldn't accomplish.  So many of the world's problems stem from the idea of promoting oneself at the cost of others.  This can only ever be corrected with teamwork and cooperation.  
 
