Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others? That is a very good question and one that has a very simple answer in my opinion. That answer is found in the Golden Rule that I am sure we have all heard at least one time in our life. 

The Golden Rule states, "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you." To me, that means that we should aways put others ahead of ourselves. When we put others first, we take our eyes off of ourselves and any selfish desires that we may have. When we look out for others and support them with whatever needs they have, then we will begin to feel what true happiness is all about. Getting more for ourselves may bring about a temporary feeling of pleasure but it does not last long. Knowing that you looked beyond your needs or wants to the needs and wants of others brings much more lasting pleasure and happiness.  

Some may say that if we don't take care of ourselves first then we won't have the energy or resources to be able to take care of or help anyone else. I find that answer to have some leverage but overall it does not usually come to fruition when we go that route. Normally, people get too stuck on themselves and trying to get themselves in order that they forget about everything and everyone around them. They get focused on all the trials and struggles they are carrying without any thought of anyone else. Most of the time, the people around them are going through similar struggles, and they could be helping each other along. I have been in this position before. I had many medical issues over the period of about five years. Starting out, I was only thinking of me and how I was going to get through it and how bad I was feeling. It was never ending and made me very depressed and down in the dumps. I started to realize it was because I was only focusing on myself and my bad situation. Instead of keeping down that road, I began to reach out to others who were having health issues just to let them know that I was thinking of them and understood what they were going through. I started talking to people in the hospital room next to me and found out some of them were a lot worse off than me. Before long, I had a list of people that I was checking in on and encouraging, and I soon forgot about a lot of my own problems. I found myself feeling better emotionally and mentally, and I truly believe that is what got me out of the depressed state I was in.

To be honest, I believe that we should have a good balance in life in all things. From the personal experience I have gained however, I found that I was truly more happy when I was able to help others than when I was helping myself. It goes without saying that we need to take care of ourselves but that does not negate the need for us to be looking out for our fellow man. When life gets tough, we can look around and see those who are having it tougher. There will always be someone out there who has it worse. I think we need to put ourselves a little in the background in life and focus more on being a light and a blessing to those we come in contact with every day. I can promise that slowly but surely, you will sense that inner happiness and peace that comes when you realize that you have been a help and comfort to someone else. 

In conclusion, the best happiness comes from within not from things or anything external. We should give of ourselves and find that true happiness. Most times it seems that when we do that, we get back a lot more that we ever thought we needed or wanted. So, be focused on others and realize that your true happiness will follow. Prove me right!
