Materialism is the practice of cultivating a life that's focused primarily on stuff. This method of living has been heavily criticized- one could argue that many of these criticisms are fairly hypocritical. It's difficult to live in this day and age in western society and not be at least somewhat materialistic. Of course the degree to which materialism is embraced varies among individuals, but there's probably some amount opresent in the lives of nearly everyone. 
This paper will argue that since materialism is fairly prevalent whether we like it or not, we may as well embrace it, but we should do so mindfully. I don't believe we should engage in senseless materialism with no self awareness, although their are definitely individuals who do live this kind of lifestyle. As we've learned over the past several decades, there are a finite amount of resources on this earth. Excess consumption hurts the planet, and it hurts some of the people in the supply chain who have to do things like collect raw materials and produce the consumer grade products. These are important issues to consider when considering the issue of embracing materialism. 
It's hard to ethically justify knowingly harming both the planet and our fellow human beings just to get the mometary pleasure that results from acquiring more and more posessions that we don't really need. But it's unrealistic to say we should conduct our lives in such a way that we never purchse or acquire any unneeded posessions whatsoever. We deserve to experience a reasonable amount of pleasure in this life. But it's important to find a balance between our pleasure and the quality of life of the other people who live on this planet as well as future generations who will be affected by environmental damage. So this is why I'm advocating for mindful materialism. 
We should educate ourselves on the environmental and human impacts of our purchase decisions. We should choose, whenever possible, to make decisions that benefit the greatest number of people possible. In short, we should try to apply utilarianism to our purchase decisions. I believe this is an achievable goal and can lead to the greatest amount of happiness for a large amount of people. 
A counterargument might be that material posessions will never bring lasting fulifllment, and they only get in the way of the things that will. Buying more and more things keeps us trapped in a mire of delusion that prevents us from really looking at ourselves, our place in the world, and the possibility of experiencing true spiritual fulfillment. Even if we can find a way to be ethical consumers, the action of consumption itself will always ultimately leave us feeling empty and wanting for more. 
I would argue that this may be true for some people, but that many people's greatest joy in this life is quality time spent with loved ones. The purchase of certain material objects can enhance this time spent with others, and lead to a greater degree of lasting fulfillment with one's life. It is of course, not the objects themselves that bring this fulfillment, but rather the experience they provide and the people with whom this experience is shared. But still, the object acts as a catalyst here and can not be removed from the equation. Even the pursuit of spiritual fulfillment can be enhanced by certain objects. Does the essential literature that is featured in all major religions not fall under the category of a posession? Therefore, some degree of material consumption is unavoidable. 
I would further argue that this could be an additional consideration for the practice of mindful materialism. Not only should we strive to embrace materialism in the most ethical way possible, we should also keep in mind the basic tenant of human nature that materialism for materialism's sake is bound to be an ultimately unfulfilling prospect and that getting too carried away with it will lead to waste of one kind or another. Waste of money, waste of materials, waste of time, waste of a life. We should remember to frame the issue through this lens when we make our purchase decisions. Will this purchase somehow enhance another goal that does lead to a deeper fulfillment? This is an important thing to consider. 
Materialism is the practice of acquiring posessions. It is often used as a dirty word, and seen as a practice that is somehow shameful. Yet everyone engages in it to some degree. Instead of pursuing the futile task of doing away with materialism all together, we should instead go about it in a way that does as little harm to our own lives and to the lives of others as possible. We should also keep in context of what can bring us true happiness. By meeting these two requirments, materialist pursuits can be seen as healthier behaviors that don't deserve automatic criticism. It could even be seen as a virtue, assuming it's carried out in a benefical, thoughtful way. 
