Media is all around us. Even if we don't realize it we're recieving thousands of images into our subconscious on any given day. How much of an effect does this have on us? When we view social media we're not really seeing what is truly going on there, we're seeing what the person who posted it wanted us to see. Because of this, we never really get the full and true idea of what actually happened during any event we watch online. I believe this has a huge effect on people because it shapes their opinions on thousands of topics even though it may not be wholly true. It can even have too much of an effect because it shapes their opinion on important, life changing topics such as race or status.

Some may think that images and impressions may not have a huge effect on people. They may argue that they are able to tell whether what they are watching is staged or true. These people have been proven wrong over and over though. As an example, there are many tiktoks that do not appear staged but may or may not be. When you go into the comment section you see comment after comment of people arguing with others whether it's staged or not. This proves that you cannot always tell what's real and these impressions are taking effect on people. 

Social media also creates false impressions of people online. Influencers create versions of themselves on a chosen platform. This is the person they want you to think that they are, it is not neccessarily who they are in real life. This means some people are worshipping this false person that is an image they are seeing online. Seeing someone so perfect can cause people to feel inadequate, want for things they can't have, and experience self esteem issues. 

In conclusion, impressions are what the media is made of. News is designed to lean one way or the other. Two news outlets may cover the same exact story but it will be presented in two different directions. Because of this your view will be different and may change depending on which outlet you watch. We need to be careful not to let these impressions be our only imput for shaping our opinions.
