Dreams and wishes form a fundamental need of the human mind to find achievement in one's life, though many would argue that simple goal-defined criteria isn't the only---or even the most prominent---way to find satisfaction. In light of that, a question then surfaces as to which outlet provides more sustenance of the spirit, more fulfillment of the soul, and more justification for the happiness that one experiences in their long life.

Relationships formed with others are a keen building block to define humanity: a connection to often defy definition, but something genuinely fulfilling. Other people provide elements to satisfy when goals can go unachieved or travails prove too difficult, finding love and friendship and a depth of integration to touch at the intangible soul. But what is more fulfilling in life than personal endeavor? Is it too simple to think a person finds less or more happiness with their peers?

It is my earnest belief that people are crafted uniquely independent from one another, and no single answer can commentate on where happiness is better felt; what satisfies for one person may not necessarily do so for another. People all yearn for different things, goals, and ways to define themselves. Perhaps a great love and enjoyment of life can be found in advancing one's career, buying a wanted-for home, or becoming a person of prominence.

Personal experiences have taught me that fostering a deep, intimate connection with another human being surpasses any achievement, and likewise enhances future happiness. What once served as the joy to serve one person becomes shared, multiplied, and carried on through others. It echoes deeper than discovering something merely for oneself. Learning of another, sharing in their life, and coming to understand a heart is one of the most profound things a human can accomplish in their years.

Seeing someone else happy and genuinely sharing in it is sustenance for the soul. Helping someone to love themselves or to see what it is you see in them has no equal. All seemingly selfish things---your goals and wishes, your career, your possessions, or your bank account---pale in comparison to me. But recall that this is personal belief: other people may not feel the same way, and their perceptions are all equally valid. The question posited is too individual-specific for any definition to be set in its aim.
