In this topic I will be discussing the possible merits of modern soceity being focused around being materialistic. In most modern societies today, life has been sallowed whole by materialistic behaviors. We work hard to make money, we then use that money to buy us things that make us happy. It can be seen as a negative, an obessisve soceity that is primarly focused on making the most money possible so we can aquire all the dream possessions. However, in my opinion I can also see the benefits of such a soceity. I will try my best to explain such benefits in the coming paragraphs below. Hopefully, by the end of this essay you will come to understand the positives of a soceity focused on being materialistic.

As a modern society, I believe we need focus and drive to make our lives matter. Which the countless horrors that plauge the world we live in, human beings need distractions to keep our mental health in check. Materialistic behaviors, in my opinion, is one such method that fits that criteria. Focusing oneself on a goal for an item or event you want is a healthy way to live. It gives our lives meaning and keeps us going forward to achieve. For example, someone living in a not so great life can still muster through it if they have a goal of achieving somethign they want to possess, whether that be an item or an exeperience. Without those goals, that same person might fall fromt he pressure of his/her life, making them less productive in soceity. Human beings need goals to focus on or we became loss in the horrors of the world. Materialism is just another method in which we pick something to chase after that will hopefully bring us happiness. Owning the lastest IPAD or having the lastest pair of Jordan's can bring a sort of happiness to someone's life that they might not otherwise have. While these items might seem silly to some, to others they represent a wish that was granted by their own hard work and perseverance. These materialistic items are what gets a lot of people through their mundane lives. These materialistic items are what brings joy and happiness to those that desire them. In the end, those individuals focusing on materialistic gains are bring a sort of importance to their lives that they would otherwise not have. Isn't that good for society as a whole? To have people able to find their own happiness, even if that happiness resides in an expensive item or an expensive experience?

I also understand the negative aspects of materialism and its important that I bring a few of them up here. For starters, people being so driven and focused on buying the next big item or experincing the next big event can produce an toxic enviornment. People chasing money to buy the next big expensive thing, only to continue down that path for the next thing and the next thing in an endless cycle. That's why, even if I see the positives of materialism, I am also not blind to its faults and believe we need to have limits set by the governments of the world to make sure that it doesn't get out of hand. The biggest threat is big companies and their greed, their hunger to get as much money as possible out of the citizens. That's why regulations are important, it keeps these companies in check and prevents them from taking advantage of its people. Having uncontrolled materialism running rampant is not a good thing, but if its kept in check then I believe it can continue to be an asset to soceity and humanity as a whole. It's an dangerous balance, but I believe it is one that can be achieved.

In conclusion, materialism, just like any other thing has it positives and negatives. Something can be bad or good depending on how it is handled and how it is controlled. If society as a whole comes together to manage materialism, then I believe it can be beneficial to those who need it in their lives. We shouldn't look at something as it is just negative from the start, but we should look at it for its whole and come up with ideas to benefit from the positives while negating the negatives as much as we can. If we do that with materialism, then I believe we can enjoy the benefits from it that I stated above while controlling the negatives from affecting society in the bad way. Materialism has its faults as I explained above, but in my opinion the good that it can do for society far outweights the negatives if we regulate it enough.
