Happiness is a subject quality from person to person. While everyone has different preferences and beliefs, what makes people happy is generally the same. Some people find happiness in other. Whether they're in the presence of others, or if they're doing somehing for others, when other people are happy, they are happy. Some people find happiness in working towards their personal goals and dreams. Working closer to what they want makes them happy.
I believe people are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of other people. When people are too focused on their own goals, they can get caught up in that and not appreciate what's going on around them. For example, when I was so caught up and focused on getting my graduate degree, I wasn't able to really enjoy my time unless I was with other people or doing things for other people. While my degree made me happy, I wasn't really happy or satisfied unless I was doing something with or for someone else. I was blinded by my goals as if they were the only things that mattered in life, and they were the only things that could make me happy. I was terribly wrong.
Many will say that people are happier working on their goals as opposed to the happiness of others. They argue that pursuing their dreams and their personal goals makes them happy. In reality, this makes everyone happy. Everyone wants to achieve their goals and dreams but I think these people forget about life. If they think this is the only thing that will bring them happiness, they miss out on the world around them and miss out on other things that could make them happy. These could be "busybody" people who have convinced themselves that work and productivity aare the only ways to be happy with their lives; this simply isn't the case.
In conclusion, while happiness is a subjective thing, I would argue that most people find happiness in the happiness of and with others. People who only focus on their goals have convinced themselves that's the only thing that will make them happy, but that is wrong. Focusing on your own goals, while important, can make you blind to the happiness around you.

