The allure of companies advertising their products surrounds us everyday from television and radio to billoards and social media.  But are they telling us the complete story about the goods they are selling.  As the old adage goes, "I think you're selling me a load of goods" meaning your trying to get me to believe something that is not entirely true.  This is not a new practice brought on by the access to more people through the internet, no, "madmen" have been hired for many decades to help sell products that may otherwise not be so inticing.

I am confident that most product are not what the ads tell us they are.  For instance, models wearing the latest lingerie for a high end clothing company give the appearance that if you wear this product you will look and feel exactly like the model.  When in fact, most people do not have the bodies of these models, not to mention, the ad does not show you the grueling workout and diet regiment that the models go through everyday to keep in shap.  These advertisements always show the best things that may be associated with the product to intice us to give up our hard earned money to have and participate in what they are projecting upon us.  However, it is still our choice to buy the product or not.  The companies are merely trying to be successful in selling and use well made advertising to meet their goals.  I think most people can look at a product or person for what they are and know they are only seeing what is being shown to them and that there is is another side to the story.

Some may say that in fact this is what their product actually or this is what this person represents but we know all to well, through experience, that there is alway what they say, what we thing, and the acutal truth.  The is especially true of politicians who will say anything during an election season and then will not follow through on everything they promised once in office.

"Seeing is believing" may be true when it comes to alien encounters but seeing an advertisement or someone promoting themselves does not always convince people of what is being promised.  It may sway us to an extent but most people are savey enough to know when something is too good to be true.  Being bombarded by clever advertisements all day long can be counter-productive for the company or person as we have become callus to their attempts.




