Materialism has been a topic for many decades. It is unfortunate that so much time is spent on gaining things in this life. But I don't think modern life is to blame for that. There may be more things in today's society to desire. That is due to more inventions and technology. But I don't think it is any different than those who came before us for the last several years. Today's society doesn't deserve any more criticism than past times. 

It has been the desire of people for generations to do better so they and their families can enjoy more material possessions. Sometimes this possessions aren't about showing off. Sometimes they are things that make life easier. Adapting to modern society requires certain material possessions. items such as cellphones and computer for example weren't around when I was grwoing up. S0 of course nobody desired them. But now they are practically needed to live and interact in modern society. People desire them because it is the way of the times. It is not because they have become more materialistic. 

I remember growing up in the 1980's. Video games were becoming desirable. When Nintendo was released, people in my small town went crazy. They stood in lines for hours. I remember seeing reports of fighting in the stores. People were shoplifting. And truly back then people got away with more because surveillance cameras weren't prevalant. Similarly, when Cabbage Patch Kids came out, my mom went to get my sister and me one for Christmas. Parents were shoving and grabbing dolls out of people's hands. My mom told me later, she grabbed a couple that had fallen on the floor and promptly left.  It was a dangerous scene all because of dolls. 

People are judgemental about others being materialistic. But the truth is we all want things. I don't think people should be criticized for enjoying the money they spend. As long as people are grateful and humble , they have every reason to enjoy the results of their work. Even if people have inherited their possessions it is understandable to enjoy them. People have being going on game shows for years to win material possessions. It's life. The examples I gave earlier are unacceptable behaviors. But solely desiring material possessions is human nature. 

I do think social media has helped facilitate people wanted more things in a way. Celebrities and influencers get online and model clothing. They talk about makeup lines, clothing lines, electronics, vehicles, etc. Again this shows how modern society has more access to information. Things used to be limited to what was on sale in your local community. But this doesn't equate to everyone being materialistic. Celebrities and influencers do not reflect the average person alive today. 

There should be a healthy balance between material possessions and experiences. It is worthwhile for people to enjoy what they have for a while before desiting more. Gratefulness is a wonderful virture. However, from the beginning of time people have wanted material things to enhance their lives. It isn't something new. People aren't becoming more materialistic. There are simply more things to chose from. 




