In this day and age with television and internet access nearly ubiquitous across much of the globe, many people are affected by images, both still and moving. Even young kids, from the time their born are exposed to videos and images from the media, amateurs and influencers. This can have a negative effect on both kids and adults. 

When I was young you would see people with what we then considered aveerage looking teeth. Many people drank tea or coffee on a regular basis and therefore had teeth that were not pearly white. There was nothing out of the ordinary or shameful about having non-white teeth. It was the person inside that mattered. Now, as kids grow up, they may feel some stigma from not having glowing white teeth. Why, you may wonder? Exposure to advertisements, movies and television where the actors, newscasters and celebrities all have bleached teeth. 

The constant exposure to this and other forms of superficial body changing processes can make malleable kids and adults feel as if they don't measure up if their bodies don't meet the superficial demands of what these images seem to expect of them. Women and girls may be made to feel as if they aren't worthy if they aren't thin and fit. Men may feel more susceptible to feeling shame for losing their hair, or not having a sculpted body. The effects can be insidious, with people not even realizing what is behind these feelings of shame or unworthiness. More people seek antidepressants and psychological help now than ever before. 

Celebrities have the excess money and ability to change their looks. After all, in their business looks are all important. Why shouldn't they want to look their best? But why? Shouldn't we ask ourselves why? For the average person, these looks may be unattainable. They don't have access to the best cosmetic surgeons. They may not have the money for all sorts of procedures. Even teeth whitening can be expensive and may damage enamel in the long run. They shouldn't feel as if they have to measure up to some unreachable and neverending goal. For it is neverending -- there will always be someone prettier, more toned, with better hair, a better nose, better skin, etc than you. Many images in media are airbrushed and photoshopped to look "better", so they don't even represent real people. 

The media and entertainment industries should use more average looking people in big roles. Advertisements should use less airbrushing and photoshop to represent some unachievable ideal. People with medical issues that prevent them from having "perfect" looks should be represented. We should celebrate all people, not just those who meet some unstated degree of perfection. Sure, there is nothing wrong with wanting to look one's best. That is not at issue here. It's what is inside that counts and this is so often not promoted in this day and age. It is the constant need to improve one's body and self to match impossible ideals that are bombarded on us day and night. These ideals are empty, there is no substance behind them. This can lead to feelings of shame and unworthiness. Nobody needs that. 



