    Happiness can vary from person to person, both in how they find happiness, to what degree they experience happiness and how they express happiness to others around them.  Happiness can be experienced inwardly, in that someone may be happy but not exactly display it to other people, they are content knowing that they can be happy and not have to show it outwardly.  People who are reserved and quiet can be just happy as people who are outgoing and socially active.  

There are numerous ways that people try to experience happiness.  Some derive happiness by participating in physical challenges such as running a marathon or riding a bicycle a long distance.  Usually when people take on physically demanding challenges, they are goal oriented.  They increase their levels of happiness when they meet or exceed goals that they set for themselves.  Others derive happiness by helping less fortunate people by ways of volunteering their time, donating money to charitable causes, or doing errands for others.  Then there are those who are only happy when they are able to make other people happy around them.

There are some people who are perfectly happy when they are not doing anything.  That is, they can be sitting at home and just daydreaming or contemplating the meaning of life.  Deep thinking on subjects such as philosophy, religion, science, art, and other disciplines can bring great joy and happiness to some.  While others may find this boring and quite droll.

Happiness can basically be thought of as a state of mind.  It can be subjective from person to person.  What one finds enjoyable, others may not find it so.  For example, as mentioned above, one may experience extreme happiness while being involved with a physically demanding challenge, such as running a marathon.  To another person, this would not be considered joyous, uplifting and stimulating.  Rather, they would find it as a form of punishment and agony.  Thus, they would NOT be happy!

Also, some people have a balanced approach to happiness.  That is, they can derive happiness from just about any scenario.  They can be just as happy volunteering their time or money to a charity as they could be trying to achieve personal goals.  They can be just as happy by being around friends and loved ones as they can be spending time alone in meditation or prayer.  

Then there are some who rarely or never experience happiness.  There can be several reasons for this.  Perhaps being raised in households that are physically and/or mentally abusive or experiencing multiple tragedies such as the death of a loved one, a divorce, being incarcerated for committing a crime, etc.  

It is also possible for someone to be too happy.  Too much of a good thing, isn't exactly good.  It's important for people to experience all emotions, both good and bad, in order to live the fullest life possible.  Life isn't always fair, and thus people's emotions can be affected negatively.  This builds character and prepares them for future negative events and they are more prepared to deal with them.

To sum up, people from all walks of life experience happiness to a varying degree in various manners.  Finding one's own happiness can be a positive experience and in itself can be rewarding.  It's better to be happy than sad, pretty obvious!  So go find your happiness and enjoy the journey!
