Every day we spend time scrolling through social media, living viacariously through the lives of celebrities and influencers. Their perfect hair, flawless skin, seemingly never ending wardrobes. We see the face cream they choose to use, or the brand of yogurt they choose for their smoothie. As you stroll through the supermarket, and browse the yogurt area the brand you saw on someone's story yesterday will stick out to you, why? Because the picture perfect influencer's story told you that that is the brand for people like them, like the person you want to be. You know nothing else about this brand, you don't look at the nutrition label, read reviews, you choose it because it represents something that you want. 
Advertisements come in all shapes and forms. We all know that the cheeseburger that we buy from the restaurant will not look or taste like the one we saw on the commercial. But in today's day and age products are being subtly advertised to us in new ways, ways in which we don't even realize that it is happening. Social media has such a hold on our attention and our decision making that we don't even see it happening. This is why many clever companies are utilizing everyday users to promote their products. Seeing someone who seems like us makes the endorsement of the product more believable. Not only are products carefully advertised and presented to us on a silver shiny platter, but people as well. Every appearance, every outfit, every word spoken carefully crafted to give us an image of whom this person wants to be. This goes for everyone from politicians, public figures, even the friendly PTA mom down the street. For this reason, what we see on social media and other platforms has a huge effect on us. On our self esteem, on our purchasing habits, on our ideals of life. 
Though we have all been told "never to judge a book by it's cover" it's in our nature to do so. It is the reason why we choose the beatifully packaged name brand items, rather than it's bland store brand counter part. It is why we spend so much time crafting the perfect posts online, because we know that the picture that we portray of ourselves is what those who view it will believe. With so much going on in the world today, it is easier for us take what we see as reality. How many times have you seen a headline, and taken that headline as the full story and scrolled past, rather than reading the details of the story? That headline becomes the full story because as a society today our first impression is our lasting impression. 
The images and impression that are presented to us have a huge effect on our lives, decisions and feelings. It is up to us to be aware of this, remember that what we see is not always what we get. It is our responsibility to control how and what we are influenced by. 
