The question being is asked is whether people are happy based on either pursuing their own dreams or looking at ways to make others happy.  Making others happy can occur based on improving the happiness of others or improving the overall human condition.   I believe that you have to focus on both of these in order to be truly happy.  You must first find your own happiness and then work on sending out that happiness to the rest of the world.

Everyone's personal happiness is derived from their own beliefs and goals in life.  These items vary greatly amoung individuals, so each individual will follow a very different path to achieve their happiness.  For some, it may be as simple as having a family, for others it may be traveling the world and for others it may be finding their own inner peace.   I personally find great joy and happiness by hiking out in nature.  A day at a park, walking in the beauty of nature, takes out all of my stress and puts me in such a happy, peaceful place.  I also can work in my gardens for hours on a nice weekend day and forget about all of the world's problems.  For both of these activities, I have no other interruptions or activities to take my mind and body off what I am doing.       

With your personal happiness taken care of, I believe that everyone also has to look at making others happy, which then only serves to increase your own personal happiness.  At times, you may find that their are activities that you can undertake that include those things that make you happy but also increases the happiness in others.  As I mentioned earlier, I love to garden and I have done two activites recently that increased my own happiness and also helped others find their own.  First, I recently volunteered at a large plant sale in my community.  Why did I do it?  It made me happy knowing that the jobs that I was doing served a purpose for the greater gardening community and I knew that the roughly 30,000 people that would come to this sale would all find great joy in the purchases they made and the activities that would follow.  Closer to home, there is a new family that moved in next to me that is from Myanmar and the wife asked me to help with her gardens this spring.  Helping her made me happy and it also brought happiness to her and her family as they have watched their new plants grow and hopefully bloom all summer long.  

People may argue that you either have to do one or the other to find happiness, but that just does not make sense.  Common sense says to spread happiness, you first have to be happy yourself.  I firmly believe that once you know what makes you happy, you can share the knowledge or practices that you have formed to help others find their happiness.  They are very interdependent of each other.  If you are not happy with your own condition in life, how likely is it that you will be able to make others happy.  

In conclusion, first find all of the things in like that make you happy and then take those things or whatever else you can think of and spread it around to your family, friends and the communites that you are a part of your life.  Be happy yourself and then share it with everyone you can.


