The question of competition versus cooperation as creating better results and more success is an interesting one. Which is best ? Which gives lasting results ? I believe that cooperation would give the best results in the long run and that competition will only help those who prefer to not think outside the box or work well with others. In addition, I feel more people would be interested in working through cooperation and not competition.

I feel that cooperation amongst people at work or at play would provide better results as opposed to competition in general. While competition can bring out certain qualities in people that cause them to do more or better than if there was none, I feel that cooperation between individuals would allow for more ideas, focus, inter-mingling, and lasting outcomes.  When people cooperate and bounce ideas off each other is produces more quality and quantity of ideas and output.  When you have someone else working toward the same goal as you, you are able to work together, like a rowing team to push harder and more effectively that if you were alone and competing against them.  Rivalry may create friction and generate animosity, while, like a distributed computer system using multiple processors to complete a task, cooperation will create a synchronicity and develop a friendly back and forth that will allow a more positive, more successful outcome over all.  Humans in general prefer cooperation and friendship over rivalry and competition.

Some may feel that two people working agaisnt each other will generate more output and a variety of ideas and while there may be different ideas generated seperately, there is no guarantee that those additional ideas are any better than the ones generated by two people working at the same goal together. I would posit that two working together will both bring their ideas to the table and generate more while interacting as a team. They will be able to reflect each other and get more ideas through the ideas that the other presents.  While competition will generate some feelings of wanting to "beat" the other person and occasionally "brings out the best" in some, that is not always the case.  More often than not, the feeling of belonging and kinship with another will allow the free flowing of ideas and generate more significant, lasting accomplishments. 

In closing, I feel that comraderie and cooperation will create, not only more ideas and success, but a better longer lasting quality by allowing two (or more) minds to work as one.  Ideas and concepts that one person may not think of, could be conceived by having more "cooks at the pot" contributing.  The sharing of the same mutual goal allows the mind to focus and reciprocate ideas in a group.  This allows the members of a group to "interwovenly" create ideas amongst themselves versus the lone wolf nature of competition.  

