Good evening. Today, I would like to talk to you all about two important topics - perhaps, the two most pivotally important topics in the entire history of the world. The first of these topics has turned many a boy into a man, many a startup into a thriving business, and many a village into a great civilization. I am, of course, speaking on the topic of competition - the drive to do one better than others, to win and conquer over one's competitiors. The other of these topics is its direct opposite concept - that of cooperation, working with others to build and succeed together.

Which of these two is the better principle to live by? The truth, my friends, lies somewhere in the middle. It is true that no man is an island to himself, and that successes by one's own hands alone are few and far between. Therefore, it is necessary for one to cooperate and work with others to build together what one man cannot achieve alone - such as a thriving and successful corporation. However, it is against our human nature for the whole world to simply cooperate into one conformist collective. We all have drives within us to succeed above others, to have more wealth, personal possessions, power, influence, and status than our peers. Even if some of us only ever to want to cooperate, there will still be those others out there who would rather compete, and will see to it that we are in effect "defeated" and they take more than what we have. Thus, while it is essential to cooperate with some of our peers to be successful, it is also imperative to compete and to win over others in order to be successful as well.

Now some people, namely those who follow collectivist ideologies, may argue that with a strong enough government and legislative power, we can ensure nothing but pure cooperation of an entire populace and an equality in wealth between all people. However, history has shown us time and again the folly of these notions. One only needs to point out the many socialist and communist failures to demonstrate why this never works, and why a state of pure cooperation is merely an idealist fantasy. 

For one thing, when you have a strong enough government that can successfully suppress people's desires for free market competition, with full control over its economy, then you have a government which is utterly corruptible from the start. Indeed, we have seen how dictators and those within the ruling parties of these nations have robbed the people of their wealth and claimed it all for themselves. The dreams of equal wealth dissipate as the ruling party takes the majority for themselves, all down to their own greedy human natures. 

As a result, the people in these nations only live in "equal" amounts of poverty and suffering, with no person able to fulfill their own natural desires to own more property and wealth than they already have. Their free will and their freedoms of choice are duly suppressed, and their freedoms of speech and expression are lost so as to not cause any rebellion that could usurp those in the ruling parties.

Of course, we don't want to live in a world that's one hundred competition, either. Nobody does. We all need friends, family, loved ones, and colleagues to help us succeed and to get along. However, we must accept the fact that competition is a healthy and necessary part of human existence. Being able to compete for wealth, resources, and other things brings us happiness and, in a way, a will to live. Being denied the ability to compete for these things creates misery and feelings of a constrained lack of freedom to get ahead. In other words, it denies us our individualism, in favor of conformism - something most people instinctively know to be a terrible thing.

America was founded upon these three principles of freedom: Life, liberty, and property. We must maintain competition and free markets to maintain our freedom. Our competitive free markets have absolutely worked so much better at producing wealth for a great number of people than any collectivist ideology ever has.
