Competition is a key word most of us are familiar with since childhood. It's something that has been ingrained into our psyche siche early school days. Kids would get up early every morning and trot over to their classrooms in order to excel, to be better than the rest. Is this toxic? Or is this simply part of human nature.

While the answer may seem obvious at first, the truth is rather more complicated. While competition does yield results a lot of the time, it is short sighted more often than not. Take the earlier example about school kids for instance. Competition between students can force the kids into thinking more ways to outsmart, outplay the others or simply work harder than them. This is likely to produce academically smart students who handle pressure well, add in an incentive like medals or star stickers and you have a recipe for "top class" students. However, there is only room for one at the top and everyone else who couuldn't make it will likely feel down and feel like they are worth less than they truly are. 

Many would argue competition would inspire the losers into "doing better next time", but those people fail to realize that rarely works. Most people would feel sad, even embarrased when loosing to their peers, strangers or even friends. It gives them a false sense of reality, fogging their thoughts and kee[ing them from realising their true potential. Cooperation on the other hand, allows people to see their differences and use those differences to their advantage. Where competition encourages a few to ne the winners, cooperation allows for team play, potentially making everyone the winners. It forgoes rivalry in favour of friendship which is much more efficient in the long run, after all a group of experts cooperating is likely to accomplish more than a group whose members are constantly plotting behind their backs.

All in all, cooperation is the way forward for a stable and healthy society. Competition has it's place in the world, especially when it's time to slect a few individuals from a large pool. But cooperation is what defines us as humans, like they say, "rome wasn't built in a day" it probably took the combined effort of a lot of people to build it too.
