     Really the happiness comes when the people pursuing their own personal goals because the goals are the real one when the actions made for them. In that the small results makes more pleasure because that is the true happiness that what they really want in their life. There are different people in the world that they really enjoy the happiness of achieving their own goals but some people focus on the other people happiness because that also the inner happiness to make other people happy.


           In the world happiness is most important for all human being because it make life healthier and protect from unwanted stress level in day to day life. It may be any type of happiness enough to fullfill the life, from that achieving their own goals makes more happy than other happiness because it build the self confidence and throw away the negativity. These type of people aleays filled with their own confidence without depending others , if any negativity hits they have the will power to fight with failure or others. One who work for their own happiness they are real heros that make others happy and wealthy, they are not the selfish humans that enjoying own happiness they share happiness whatever they got and enjoyed at the moment. The importance of making others happy is making their own life stronger much better than the negative people surrounded us. In the everyone should try to understand others feelings.


           Making others happy is type of happiness that satisfy the own soul because its is difficult to make other happiness . Nowadays the world run like machine and forgot the inner peace and self happiness but some people like chasing their own goals and their happiness also makes others happy the point is achieving people always in positive and ineer peace so they understand the people who are all not in happiness . They ignore the negativity from others by their positive vibration and gives happiness for others . It is like addictive behaviour to have the neighbour or other people happy . It is known as a inner soul satisfy . Making others happy is more time better than own happiness . Own happiness only self pleasure not sharing but making otrhers happy sharing the happy feeling with others 
  
