The entire idea that our current reality is largely illusionary depends on their being a single objective reality. Without that single objective reality to refer back to, its difficult to distinguish between illusion and reality. I am not certain that there is only one single truth. I believe that there can be many different points of view that are all equally true. This does not mean that there is absolutely no such thing as falsehood, merely that truth is dependent on viewpoint.

As Donna Harraway points out in her essay "The God-mistake" (forgive me for not remembering a better citation off the top of my head) we all stand somewhere and see something from our given point of view. None of us are God seeing everything omnisciently while standing nowhere. Where we stand matters. We all have a limited viewpoint.

However humanity as whole does have a weapon to fight back against our limited viewpoints. We can communicate with each other. We can compare what we see based on where we stand. From this we can construct a fuller truth. There's an old parable about three blind men being introduced to an elephant. One feels only the trunk and concludes that an elephant is like a snake. One feels only the legs and believes that the elephant is like a tree. One feels the tail and believes that an elephant is like a donkey. Only by comparison can they come to an understanding of what an elephant is. Humans are also like this. We have to cross compare multiple viewpoints to reach any kind of objective truth.

I don't believe in dismissing images and impressions. They are a lense through which to see the world. Appearances matter. Deeper truths may also exist, but appearances are a part of reality. They are a point of view. A politician's appearance is as important as their actions. Both influence how they interact with the world. Advertisements are a part of reality. They determine how people respond to a product as much as the product inside the box does.

Defining appearances as being mere illusions does a great disservice to them. The idea of a thing as constructed by society matters. That idea is what people act on. We cannot observe the world except through culturally mediated lenses. I cannot encounter an apple for the first time and only interact with it as a round object made of carbohydrates and sugars. Inside my own mind, I carry with me ideas about apples. I carry Snow White and I carry the fruit of Eden in my mind when I pick up an apple. As Clifford Geertz would put it [We are all spiders enveloped in webs of culture that we have spun ourselves.] (Again, forgive my lack of proper citation, I only remember so much without reference materials.)

From one point of view, it could be said that I believe in the power of appearances. I believe they are powerful and not to be discarded. From another point of view it could be said that I do not believe in appearances at all. For I do not believe that only one viewpoint exists and that there is a single way to view reality. All points of view are an appearance. It is by acknowledging this that we become able to move between them and create a fuller understanding.
