     Competition may fuel productivity in the short term, but coorperation will foster more permanent benefits. Many individuals claim that they thrive on competition and are likely to bring about their best results when they have competitors. However, studies suggest that cooperation with others--as opposed to competition--can increase creativity, increase overall communication effectiveness, and create a more balanced and positive work atmosphere. 
     Individuals who claim that they work best when competing may miss out on opportunities to brainstorm with others and develop more well-rounded outcomes. Cooperation with others allows all individuals to give their input. More input often leads to more complex solutions and overall creativity within a  group.
     By allowing cooperation, individuals in a group open the door for effective communication. If a group focuses more on competition, the individuals in a group may feel pressure to keep their ideas to themselves. They  may also feel too intimidated to communicate with others in their group. This can hinder effective communication, which ultimately may lead to loss of productivity. After all, if no one is on the same page in a group, a book cannot be written.
     Finally, cooperation is more likely to foster a positive working environment than competition. If all individuals are focused on beating one another, hostility between group members may occur. Furthermore, individuals may be actively trying to sabotage their group members. This can lead individuals to feel unsafe and threatened in their workplace. On the other hand, cooperation provides an atmosphere of safety as everyone's input is valued and encouraged. 
      It may seem on the surface that competition will lead to higher productivity because individuals are motivated to achieve higher goals than others, but this type of work environment is not sustainable in the long run. Groups function best when all individuals feel comfortable working together and developing the best outcomes for the group as a whole. 
