Happiness is an emotion and concept not yet fully understood. It is a topic of discussion among the scientific community, but more importantly, it is a feeling and notion frequently reflected upon within the general population. Though difficult to describe, it can be described as a feeling of contentment, of satisfaction. But for what exactly? What are we satisfied with? What are we content with? Some may feel satisfied seeing others happy or at least attaining their own goals. Others may feel satisfied when their own personal goals are attained. This leads to the question of whether one feels more happiness if they focus on their own goals or if they focus on the happiness of others. Indeed, true happiness can only be achieved if one focuses on his or her own personal goals and conquers them.

The saying goes that one cannot be loved if they do not love themselves. The same goes for happiness. See others achieve their goals can be truly motivating, inspirational, and it may even instill a feeling of happiness in us - but more than likely, that feeling is fleeting. Once we reach a certain threshold of seeing others succeed and be happy while we either continuously fail or feel incomplete, we will slowly lose that feeling of happiness, wondering why we are unable to be as accomplished, and eventually fall into sadness, or at least disappointment. Their is a universal desire of feeling fulfilled, and often this goes misunderstood for nearly a lifetime. What is not misunderstood is the empty feeling it leaves within us. Psychologists support the idea of vicarious living, where one feels emotions through witnessing the lives of others. However, it is important to understand that it is not simply witnessing another's life, but actually imagining we are living that life. So whatever happiness we feel when someone else attains happiness, it feels as though we are that person and so we have actually attained happiness. This may seem like an argument supporting happiness as a result of another's happiness, but in reality, is a our subconscious needing to feel happiness, and because we are unable to achieve it ourselves, we look for it elsewhere.

Some might then argue that happiness is expressed differenttly, with culture being a strong influence. One need only compare the United States with Japan, the former being a country of individualism, the latter a country of community. The people of Japan should be happy if the needs of the entire group are met, given that is how they are raised. This is not necessarily the case. Ensuring the needs of the group are met simply ensures the survival of the group, it has nothing to do with happiness. Moreover, one need only look at the rates of self-reported happiness, or even the suicide rates of Japan, to see how they do not experience any more happiness, but rather far less. 

Happiness is felt differently by people. Certain moments make us happy, certain people make us happy, but the important thing to remember is that happiness is more strongly felt when we focus on and achieve our own goals. This is the nature of human beings.
