As a group, we can all benefit from one-another. You see the results of cooperation in our cities, our government, and even on smaller scales, such as helping neighbors. There's no denying that helping each other to build something together will lead to great outcomes. However, we shouldn't rule out competition in favor of cooperation. They both come with their own strengths, but in my opinion, the strengths of competition far outweigh those of cooperation.

People are more likey to succeed under competition because every competitor pushes one another pass their own personal limits to reach new heights. Just look at atheletes, businesses, and nations. Football players are always doing incredible things on field. Large corporations like Apple and Google are constantly innovating the technology that the world relies on, and they do this by competing for your dollar. And for nations, there are metrics that the world uses to determine how well a country is performing; the higher a nation ranks, generally the higher quality of life will be had for its people.

You may assume that being competitive can be harmful. But in actuality, a competitive mindset is healthy, specically for the reasons I've just described. Cooperation actually has a higher chance of being harmful. Sometimes it just isn't feasible to cooperate as a group. Some people will do more work than others and sometimes it may be hard for the group to come to a consensus. As a result, nothing ends up getting done. Competition doesn't have to be adveserial, you can be friendly to the people you're competing against. Ironically, when cooperation goes wrong, the opposite happens. Instead of bringing people together, they separate.

So if people want to achieve success, they should use the system best equipped for making them succeed, which again is competition. It's a better way of thinking about achieving a goal, and it generally leads to positive outcomes. We can still be united and compete with one another, we don't always need to be cooperative.
