First impressions happen instantaneously. They are the initial gut reactions that are experienced the moment a person sees something they have never seen before. Images, packaging, and colors all impact a person's thoughts about they represent to the point that it shapes their beliefs. The initial impression and feelings are always lasting. Although they may evolve, no one forgets what their first experience with those images or impressions were. This effect causes a blindspot for people in every aspect of life, as a consumer and a voter. 
Advertisements were created for the sole purpose of being able to increase the profits of companies by showing consumers why they should buy that product in a clever way. However, since the beginning of advertising, it has changed into being the most expensive, yet most effective way of convincing people to see the advertiser's perspective. This became how television shows and movie premiers obtained viewers, how politicians gained voters, and celebrities expanded their following. A 30-second television spot or billboard became the reason people spent their hard-earned money on something they may not have really needed but were convinced they did. Attacks made in these advertisements established the foundation of political races and division amongst voters without them truly even being aware what or who they were voting for. This has shaped the way our society functions. 
In fairness, advertisements have significance and some positive impacts. Consumers and viewers become aware of things they may not have been aware of before. Politicians are able to get their messages across, charity organizations can explain how people can help certain causes that may be important to them, and news can be spread much more quickly than they had in the past. Nonetheless, these images and impressions have too much of an effect on people because it creates this sense that further research is not needed. Someone may buy an expensive gadget such as a computer, for example, because the packaging has bright colors that draw you in and a recognizable name on the box in big letters, but instead of the consumer asking important questions about the functioning of the gadget inside that package, they buy it on instinct. The majority of society does not have money to throw away on large purchases, but they do it based on gut reactions that they later regret. When people vote for politicians based on an ad they saw attacking their opponent, they may not even know who they are voting for and the platforms they run on. This is extremely detrimental to society, as well as the awareness of the everyday person.

