Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic?

When I was around fifteen years old, I would ask my grandmother to constantly buy me items. If I wanted some clothes or whatever, she would gladly buy them. I became a snob. I did not really care at the time because I wanted whatever I wanted. I did not care that it was hurting my grandmother. Years later, I now realize how heartless that was. Now that she has passed, I wish I could go back and change things. I was a horrible person. Now, to pay back I give to charity.

Nowdays, I see famous people or rich people buying random items they just do not need. They are snobs like I was. It is not a good thing to do when other people are barely getting by. I feel that yes, modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. People do not think about death too much. The world could end tomorrow and all they care about is their stuff.

I feel that love is more imortant than material possessions. People seem to forget that I guess. I hear about a famous person buying another shoulder bag for an obscene amount of money and it makes me sick. Inflation is bad, but people are just trying to eat and live in their homes. I see children and adults that are homeless and hungry. Then I hear another story about some famous person needing an expensive new sweater for her dog. Really? Our world is horrible sometimes.

So, in my opinion I believe that yes modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. There are too many hoarders in the world. Too much stuff is really bad for mental health as well. It is one thing to have possessions, it is another to hoard and be materialistic. I feel that people who are materialistic have a serious character flaw. Billionaries are criticized all the time for being materialistic. 

So, in conclusion I feel that maybe modern society needs a wake up call on how they spend their money. If they donate a certain amount then that might be a different story. Maybe being criticized for being materialistic would make them think about a better way to spend their money.
