While competition has been the traditional way of guaranteeing success, it has been found that with the complexities of the world these days, cooperation has a greater chance to produce more permanent and better results.  

Cooperation brings people together rather than creating rivalries thus allowing different strengths and weaknesses to bolster each other resulting in a more invested interest in the ultimate conclusion.  Cooperation makes the focus wider, which can mitigate unexpected challenges.  With this fast paced world, being aware of upcoming challenges allows a team to be proactive, rather than reacting when it may already be too late to overcome the challenge.

With cooperation, rather than individual triumph, there is lesser of a tendency to withhold in order to shine more brightly than anyone else.  Or to not try at all in order to guarantee they won't fail to begin with.  In other words, if talent or knowledge helps the team an individual is on be successful, they would be more inclined to share it as it would only hurt their team andf their own success to withhold it.  Case in point, the military, police and fire departments already understand this concept.  With life and death situations that arise in these fields, working in cooperation ensures the best survivable outcome for more people.  Indeed, while the lone wolf has always been viewed as a romantic model, humanity has always been a social animal.  We gather for the good of the group, and teamwork is more in keeping with our innate need for others.

Many companies these days see competition as the best way to bring the cream of the crop to the top, and depend on a few shining stars to the detriment of the overall health of the company.  With teamwork, it ensures that more members of the company are functioning at their best which makes the company more stable, and less dependent on a few shining stars.    When it comes to individual athletics, even though there is only one standing on the podium in first place, their success did not happen in a vacuum, but with the cooperation of others such as their coaches.  

In conclusion, while there may be success at an individual level, it is in cooperation that true success and stability is found.  Therefore, it will be of benefit to every facet of society to encourage cooperation.  
