Materialism has been a hot and public topic widely spreaded around the world.  People may have different opinions on it.  Some of them love it because they seemly enjoy luxury and quality of life. However, Others against it and think that the materilism is not the whole thing that we should pursue in our life.  In my experience,  I think that modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic.  This really deponds on peronal choice and econmic status.   

One of main characteristics of a moder society is the competition.  People are facing various kinds of challenges from their workplace or soical circles.  They have to do better in the workplace in order to survive. They work very hard to pursue a better life or moving up a higher social class.  It is a common way to show off  their physical posssessions and a higher income than other peers.  For example, someone may buy a mansion, a private jet or a luxury car to show his/her success.  Based on recent statisics, only top of 10 percent of Americans achived that status and do anything they want.  However, most of people including me just want a worry-free life without living a paycheck by paycheck. We have to work hard and save enough money to support our family in a long run.  Oberviously materialism is an essential requriement or a nesseary step for most working class people to pursue a happy life. 

I also can not deny that it is possible to pursue more spiritual things once they have enought money. Some of top 10 percent may donate money to their local community, charity organizations and research insitutions to help others. For most of ordinary people,  they may go to a threate, sport event or international travel to learn different cultures. 

In summary, I want to say that it seems no clear boundary between materalism and spirtualism for most people.  It really deponds their social and encomic status.  They have to earn enough money to support their family first and then pursue some meanful spirtual things if they have sufficient money to do so.  Therefore, I support that modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic.  
     

 
