It is often said that a picture is worth a thousand words. Perhaps in the age of social media and influencers that is more true than ever.  Has the importance of content fully given way to the power of marketing?  Are we really living in the post truth era or does the crowd still bear in mind the other old adage to not judge a book by its cover?
You don't have to look far to see the power image carries.  Our chosen communication tools speak for themselves. While baby boomers are still missing the golden age of snail mail when you could hope to find something in your box aside from bills and junk, even email is becoming obsolete for the gen z crowd. The more word based the social media, the higher the age the average user is likely to be. Youth are moving more and more towards image and away from text. Email, even text messages are too wordy for many, instead opting for programs like snapshat where gifs and bitmojis do the talking for you. Facebook, once king of the social media crop, long ago bowed to the more image focused instagram, and recently even that is giving way to more flash and less meat with tik tok. 
Its not just which platforms are gaining popularity that testify to the increasing focus on image, its the content.  In bygone eras, when you reffered to experts, leaders, news media, people had a reasonable expectation that they could rely on those groups to inform the general public of their understanding of a somewhat concret truth. Now, most people watch the news with an understanding that most programs and pieces are more about broadcasting an opinion than presenting more purely fact. And where experts used to be sought, many are now subscrining to the latest influencer. 
A quick an easy illustration is to consider the beauty influencers with the most followers and views. Much of their content centers around quick and easy hacks to transform your face to look like the hotest it girl of the moment. Thirty seconds to a "snatched" nose, change your eye shape in 2 quick flicks, get (insert celeb name)'s perfect pout with just two products and a tissue! All with before and after shots that are often hard to recognize as the same person. 
Is it time to embrace the post truth world and join the crowd? The numbers would say, you do you!
