Cooperation, so-called "teamwork", will nearly always provide a more favorable and sustainable outcome than unbridled competition and focusing on individual achievement.

When people cooperate as a team, it likely breeds healthy competition, where each person puts his or her best foot forward toward achieving a common goal.   By contrast, unchecked competition and a focus on receiving personal accolades often leads people to lose sight of common goals and causes them to focus on personal recognition.  This can lead people to do things that undermine coworkers and teammates, leading to a poor outcome for all.

I learned this lesson first hand as a youth athlete.  I was a talented scorer in basketball and set the league record for average points per game in a single season.  In one game, in particular, I scored a league record 81 points.  Needless to say, my teammates did not have many scoring opportunities, because I took nearly every shot.  Although most people would surmise that our team easily won this game, we actually lost.  With less than one minute to go in the game, we were down a single point.  I attempted to drive to the basket to give our team the lead.  My teammate Scott was wide open and could have easily scored.  Instead of passing the ball to Scott, I took the final shot and missed.   I was so focused on my personal scoring, I cost us the game.  This event caused resentment on the team and led to me having to apologize and regain my teammates' trust.

Many times, people will use the example of a wrestler and the so-called "Art of Selfishness" to maintain that so long as a person is giving their all, it does not matter whether they are focused on cooperation with co-workers and teammates, because the team ultimately wins in most cases.   

It is undoubtedly true that fierce competition can and does often drive success and extraordinary achievement.  That's not in dispute.  However, it often leads to the poor outcome and resentment that I outline above.   For all of the reasons set forth, therefore, cooperation and fostering healthy competition is much more likely to end more favorably.


