Many question whether personal goals or the happiness of others are the central tenet that leads to personal happiness.  Some posture that a goal can create happiness by fulfiling that goal.  For instance, perhaps someone sets a goal to graduate college, and by completing that they fulfil themselves and create happiness.  However, some argue that in happiness is a result of happiness of others.  For instance, perhaps an individual chooses to graduate college because their parents would be happy and recognize them.  While, the happiness of others is compelling, personal goal setting is ultimately what creates fulfiling and lasting happiness.

When I graduated high school and entered college, I set a goal to graduate from college in two years.  While many people, including my parents were happy with that prospect that I was taking charge in my education, ultimately what drove me and lead me to completing it in 2 years was the goal I set, and the incremental progress towards it made me recognize and embrace the challenge it posed.  Throughout college, I took 12 CLEP exams, that combined with my AP credits made it possible for me to graduate with my accounting degree in two years.  From this goal, looking back, I feel a level of satisfaction and happiness that is hard to address.  I recognize that I toiled to get to this point, and took actions that saved me from staying in school for at least two more years.

However, if instead of me taking charge, my parents forced me to do what I did, perhaps I might be happy that I graduated, and I accept that I would be happy for completing the task, I don't believe I could look back as fondly as I do on the experience.  I feel satisfaction from the fact that I owned the process and the goal.   Ultimately, I would lack the interest in that I successfully completed a goal.  It would be tantamount to if my parents forced me to become a doctor.  Perhaps I could recognize some personal happiness from being out of medical school, but would they have lasting happiness, no.

What drove me was setting the goal I did, and making concrete actions to get towards it.  Every time I completed a CLEP exam or a semester, I would feel a sense of happiness that I was one step closer.  When I locked down a job offer, I recognized that my hardwork would pay off with a well-paying job doing tax compliance work.  If I was doing these things to make my parents happy, I could not have recognized or felt the lasting happiness I feel to this day.  I would feel miserable and concerned that I was not pleasing my parents.  To accept that would be to recognize myself as merely a tool of making my parents or other family members more happy.  For these reasons I feel that setting a goal is more important than making others happy in the context of personal happiness.

To the contrary, many people would argue and recognize that family is tantamount in their lives.  Some would see that having a healthy (and happy family relationship) is predicated on giving and taking.  Some of that relationship is doing things to make the other person happy.  For instance, let's predicate that family is important to both individuals, and the parent has a restrictive view on morality issues perhaps involving religion.  Perhaps, the father of the family is a Catholic deacon, and holds strong Catholic moral views.  The son, perhaps has a different worldview.  

Would it be wise for the child to become a doctor and provide abortion care?  Personally, in a situation like that, I could see the need for the son to perhaps reconsider his goals if he continues to want the relationship with his parents (in particular his father).  In such a rare situation such as this could I see seconding your personal goals to the happiness of others being worth considering.  For instance, perhaps if his father would not want anything to do with him if he did pursued this path.  Ultimately, I recognize and accept that in some situations it may be neccessary to set aside your personal goals for the happiness of others.  Perhaps having the relationship with your father would make your very happy.  I could see myself potentially in that situation if I chose a different career or had different parents.

Other individuals, and in particular religion, would point towards the works and other acts of charity being more important to oneself.  While I admit doing these sort of things is apart of my life, and I suppose someone could argue with me that this is seconding my goals to humanity, I believe that these on their own become a goal of their own and thus is a false argument.

Ultimately, I firmly believe that goals are the most important thing to one's personal happiness.  While there are situations where it makes sense to subvert one's happiness necessarily to preserve or to maintain the happiness/support of others, those situations are rare and uncommon.
