What you you see is what you get. A phrase most of us have used at some point in our lives; but how far are we willing to stretch the truth? Everywhere we turn there seems to be a new flashy advertisement for something...or even someone. This rings especially true with the surge in social media platforms over the past decade. Everyone has the best...whatever it is they're selling. The best gadget to make life easier, the best new moisturizer that will change your skin, the best policies for running our country. Often times, it's not until after we've consumed what others are offering that we discover the reality: first impressions manipulate us, and reality disappoints us.

Think about the last product you bought after a particularly intriuging ad. Or maybe the last time you cought yourself nodding in agreement with a sales clerk as they explained why you really do need a brand new vacuum. Or maybe your interviewer is painting your next potential job to be absolute bliss. Now, what happened in the coming days, weeks? Did reality meet the expectations of your first impression? Your answer probably isn't yes. And yet, we all seem to still get wrapped up in colorful packaging, crafty wording, and overenthusiastic people.

Perhaps humans are a bit too optimistic for their own good. The next time will be different, won't it? I won't be fooled again...I learned from my mistakes. Imagine you're going on a first date. A nice restuarant, new outfit, butterflys in your stomach. Now, what are you going to discuss as you sit across from your date? It's your turn to offer up the first impression. You'r not going to talk about how your car broke down last month and you missed a week of work. And you're not going to explain how embarrassed you were last summer when you had too much to drink at a party and had to be carried out. Instead, you're going to share all the shiny highlights of your life...your new car maybe, and your active social life. So we might argue that we all perpetuate a calculated first impression, and that it's just a part of life. But before you dismiss the dangers of misleading advertising, it's important to consider motive.

Motive is the driving force behind much of what we do, including the impressions we consume. Is it money, fame, power? So yes, you might be crafting a prety first impression to give to your date, but your motive is likely tame. You want to be accepted and liked. You're not trying to get something out of your date, whereas that sales clerk with the best vacuum in the world was probably trying to get their commission. And the politician that has paid for a dozen commercials is trying to get your vote. 

To wrap things up, we as a society are consumers. Not just of products and information, but of deception. Even though we've all performed the same song and dance with impressions, we continue to be lead into consuming more and more. The overall effect an impression can have on us incomparible to most anything else. The bottom line is, impressions draw us in and lift us up, only to drop us back into reality. What we see is not always what we get.
