     In life, everyone seeks to find happiness. Happiness is an essential part of life. There are many ways that a person might find happiness in their life, but what is the best way to do so? Is there a formula? Is there a specific way to find happiness? Two prominent means of finding happiness are to either focus on the self, and pursue ones personal goals and ambitions, while another is to focus more on others and help them primarily. While there is no one correct way for everyone, I posit that focusing on the wellbeing of others, ones community, and humanity as a whole is a more likely path to happiness and fulfillment in life.
     While focusing on one's own goals and desires seems like the simplest path to happiness, it is more fleeting and les fulfilling. Focusing on helping others and improiving their lives serves a dual purpose, of bringing happiness to others while finding it yourself along the way. This is a more true, satisfying, and lasting type of happiness.
     In my own life, I have found the greatest level of satisfaction and happiness by focusing on my relationships with others. Helping close others like friends and family is very rewarding and brings me joy to see my positive effect on their lives. I have also spent time volunteering, and other activities that seek to improve the lives of people in my community, or even around the world. In a similar fashion, this brings me a lasting joy and feeling of pride and happiness that cannot be achieves cimply by focusing on my self and my own self interested aims or goals. This type of happiness, on average, doesn't last as long, or feel as true. We are not alone in this life. We all depend on each other. How can I alone be happy, if those around me are not?
     Scientific studies have shown definitively that helping others through various means, whether close others in our personal lives, or strangers through volunteering or charity, has a great positive effect on our mood, happiness, and self esteem. So it must be that the path to true happiness is through others. This method creates a positive feedback loop. When others do the same, we all lift each other up and achieve happiness together, on a higher level than would ever be possible alone.
     Some would say that we cannot help others if we don't first help ourselves. They would contend that focusing on ourselves first is the most important thing. In reality, helping others and lifting them up is a way of doing the same for ourselves in the process. What helps others also helps yourself, and the effects are wider and greater.  Focusing only on ourselves is like pretending we live in a vaccuum. It is short sighted and its results incomplete. Further, the two are not mutually exclusive. One can focus on and improve the well being of others and also achieve their own goals and ambitions.
       In the end, we only get one life, our own, and yet we are all in it together. Time and time again throughout history has shown that we can achieve far greater results together than alone. The same can be said for happiness and fulfillment in life. Looking to help others and lift them up through your words and actions is the surest path to true joy and satisfaction in life. 
 
