     Let's face it.  We live in a visual society where most people prefer to see eye-catching visuals when we are interacting with all aspects of society.  Promoters are masters at grabbing out attention with the products they want to promote.  Fancy packaging, detailed store displays, exciting commercials and other advertisements are facing us everywhere we go.  We love being entertained with all the bells and whistles, but do we really stop to thing whether or not the item advertised is truly being revealed to us?  Is the pomp and circumstance getting in the way of us knowing exactly what it is that we are viewing?  It is time for society to stop for a moment and consider if this excessive type of advertising is having too much effect on us making a true judgment on what we are viewing.  
     Many parents raise their children to make sure they always make a good impression.  We often put on the charm when we are faced in certain situations.  Maybe this is why advertising and social media focus so much on getting our attention in their ads.  They want to make a good impression, and in their defense, that is what they need to do when they have a quality product.  But is it fair to make claims about a product that is not true?  The public deserves to be presented with accuracy and facts when they are faced with any type of ad.  We should not have to try to figure out what is true and what is not when viewing advertisements in the media or in brick and mortar stores.  The right thing to do is for these companies to be less worried about the wow factor and more concerned with being transparent. 
     We as a society need to take a hard look at ourselves and determine if our behaviors are contributing to these misrepresentations happening in today's advertsing world.  Are we following the wrong brands on social media?  Are we purchasing products knowing they were not advertised with fidelity?  Are our actions helping this dog and pony show in the advertising world grow?  It is time for us to take charge of what is right and for us to not be enamored by false claims.  Let's get back to basics.  Let's teach our future generations what is important...the truth!

