There is an old African proverb that says, "If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together." When considering whether cooperation or competition helps people to achieve more success, this proverb comes to mind because it demonstrates that in all cultures over time, it has been proven that working together toward a common goal is almost always the best approach for success.

Some people might argue that competition could lead to greater success, as being the "first" to achieve something would obviously make that individual successful. It has been said that "necessity is the mother of all invention", and certainly the necessity of being the first to succeed would act as a motivational need for a person to succeed. However, since we were children, we've all heard at least once that "two heads are better than one." But why is that? What about working cooperatively is better than working competitively?

When working with another individual or a group, the abililty to collaborate on solutions becomes a reality that an individual working competitively just does not have. Ideas can be passed between people who work cooperatively, and different methods of thinking and approaching an issue can be evaluated. The past experience of each person working as a cooperative group can lead to new lines of thinking that might not be available to a single person working competitively. Seeing a problem or finding a solution can sometimes come from an experience not even related to the task at hand; it could stem from an experience someone had as a child, or as a result of where they grew up, who they went to school with, what jobs they held previously, etc. Each person has a unique set of experiences that makes them who they are, and by working as a group, the chances of a person's experiences helping to achieve success increases.

That isn't to say that working cooperatively is not without its setbacks. Differences in opinion can lead to disagreements and possibly stall the success of a project. Humans can be stubborn creatures, and sometimes our stubbornness can be hard to put aside. Personal disagreements always become a potential issue when two or more people are working toward a common goal, because someone might not be as willing to put their viewpoints aside or to listen to another person's perspective. Hubris can sometimes get in the way of admitting one person's idea was wrong or inaccurate, or personal feelings toward another member of the group, either positive or negative, can affect a person's views.

While this might sound like an arguement for competitive thinking, which it could be, the downsides of working competitively for success can be found in some of those same arguements. Two people might disagree about a certain approach to a solution, and that disagreement could result in either proving one approach right, or finding a new approach neither party had previously considered. A person working alone competitively would not have this advantage. A person who lets their personal dislike of another person might seem to be a setback to a cooperative setting, but that also means that person will not be quick to accept the work or position of the person whom they dislike, and could offer more criticism that would force the group to observe their work with more scrutiny.

Billionaire Dennis Washington once told someone that the reasons for his success were finding people who were smarter than he was about whatever he wanted to achieve and to surround himself with them. The African proverb quoted at the beginning of this essay is actually on display on one of the walls leading into the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. These are examples of two very successful individuals whom nobody could reasonably say had any shortage of success in their lives, and both of which have very publicly embraced the mindset of working as a cooperative group in order to achieve their successes.

In conclusion, while there can be arguments against working cooperatively in order to achieve success, I feel that there are far more benefits to working cooperatively, especially when some of the most successful people in this country have used that particular mindset to achieve their own success. I believe that the arguements I have provided here today can attest to these benefits as well, and that this essay can effectively sum up my thoughts regarding this debate.
