        Images have such a strong effect on people that their perception of reality becomes more and more distorted over time, their attention constantly being redirected to petty considerations that deprive them of any true sense of autonomy or purpose outside that which is pre-digested as acceptable.  These images of life wind up creating a sterilized reality, one in which we as humans seek to project the illusion of stability onto our very conception of nature itself.  We reduce the possible acceptable limitations to that which we have been conditioned to believe provide us with stability.  But human beings do not desire stability, they desire purpose and meaningful experiences.  Sure, there will be a demographic who inherently aligns with the conception of reality presented in media and advertising, but this demographic should not be as wide spread considering how diverse nature is in its ability to deviate.  For how much variety exists in the universe, the society we exist within has narrowed itself and its possible choices to those that yield no real deviation, that yield very little possibility for novelty of experience outside of that presented in film, commercials, and so on.  It asserts that these choices should yield happiness, but it seems to produce only misery.
        The most obvious evidence for this are rising rates of mental illness.  Despite the efforts of modern society, mental illness rates continue to rise.  For every new "illness", a new cure is presented, a new bandaid for something which is likely caused by human being's unwillingness to venture into the unknown possibilities deemed as unacceptable.  This is not to denigrate solutions to legitimate forms of mental illness, many of these medications yield a great improvement in quality of life for our species that evolved to exist within an uncertain and anxious world that is now at odds with the mundane day to day of office life.  There is a primordial craving though for that which we now view as "alien", the unstable, the uncertain, the deviant.  Whatever you want to call it, there is an undeniable craving for instability, often a catalyst for major societal upheavals.  A desire to utilize our minds for what they were intended, to survive in an uncertain universe.  We are sold through various images and impressions a reality in which we do not want that and in which desiring this is unhealthy, that it is abnormal, that to crave these things is to be mentally ill or even worse to society, an anarchist.  The current status quo will continue to bandaid these things, it will continue to produce images that try to sell us on this nice stable existence, this existence free of discomfort in all forms, this utopia.  This will appeal to the conscious mind, but the lizard brain will always quell up in certain individuals in protest.  This is not to say that we should merely do away with all laws, but that we need to approach the problem differently.  You cannot eliminate the instincts that were born when we still dwelled in caves, but you can channel them.  The most obvious is the removal of artistically and sexually repressive mechanisms, as this is where the deepest forms of the self can express themselves.  If these too are caged up in the name of stability, then there is no pressure release valve, there is no escape and the only outcome for society will be a return to barbarism.  We are already seeing it, school shootings, conspiracy theories, attacking those living in a way that makes those chained to their traditional values are envious of.  This is all the result of a chaining of the most basic aspects of the self, it is a result of selling people a "normal" and sterilized image of reality, once in which they feel the proper response to deviating from this image is anger and violence.
        Now some may say that this is not the case, that these people are deviants, that they are "simply evil".  These sorts of claims are the very root of the madness, as it is the fundamentalists who almost always seek to oppress that which they find threatens them.  This demographic wants to preserve a form of reality which never existed, when confronted with reality they respond only with vitriole.  This demographic rejects life itself, there is a hostility towards life that is so extreme that even the moral nihilist may be horrified by the rigidity of the worldview of the fundamentalist.  The only way forward forward that won't continue to yield sure nuclear holocaust is to move past this inflexible mode of thinking, to embrace life in its uncertainty, to embrace the uncomfortable feelings that all aspects of life might yield.  The only way forward is to reject these sanitized images of life that have shaped our culture in a way that reduces the complexity and horrifying beauty of existence to that of your average Disney film.
