     Society should be criticized for being materialistic because of how this affects our brain stimulation with our wants and desires. Our desires are what is causing the Earth to be polluted and filled with trash when we dispose of our products. At the same time, obtaining goods provides us with jobs and an outlet to enjoy life to a certain extent.

     We live in a society that bases how much you have with wealth. We acquire more to feel like we need to fit in with the Joneses. More of these feed our human desires at the expense of destroying our planet with the creation of factories which cause so much waste and pollution. And then when we are done with these products, they are disposed of in dumps or landfills, only for more to be made to help stimulate our desires, which in turn, make the Earth a waste dump.

     On the flip side, being materialistic ironically provides jobs for people which fuels the cycle even more. Factories need to be built, so people hire workers to make the buildings. Goods need to be made, so workers are hired for their expertise in making those products. Getting the items shipped to other factories as parts and such would require drivers, so jobs need to fill that area. Then when people are done with the job, part of their paycheck goes towards obtaining something that gives them pleasure after a long, stressful week of work.

     Acquiring materials helps to provide us pleasure in that we get something that's out of the routine, something "new." It stimulates our brains. An analogy would be like going to the beach to break out of your routine of waking up, working, then going home repeatedly every day. The brain would feel drained of energy. However, this "newness" helps give the brain a new sensation or experience. New things help give you a sense of growing because you experience different things.

     In conclusion, materialism is like a double-edged sword. We acquire more but end up wanting more which causes the earth to be filled with so much junk when we are done with the products. More are made to satisfy our desires. Acquiring more means jobs, which then fuels the cycle. But getting different things also helps give the brain a sense of "newness" to explore or experience. Society in a way benefits from materialism.

