As a result of capitalist ideology becoming more popular for economic policy, societies are increasingly moving to consumerism. Some claim that we may be "going too far," in the sense that society is too focused on consuming goods that may or may not directly improve quality of life. I will argue that materialistic tendencies are an inevitability, and that to ridicule people for engaging in materialistic tendencies is wrong. 

Despite what most people think, capitalism is the study of how people make choices, not about the study of money or how it flows. It seems almost ironic and the antithesis of capitalism to criticize people for purchasing goods--what other choices are there? Is it not wrong to want people to purchases goods and services? Some might address, especially in these days, excessive materialistic tendencies. For instance, is it really "necessary" for people to own private yachts? Cars priced over six digits? How about watches that cost more than what the average adult makes per year? 

The primary argument stems from people erroneously believing that there is absolutely zero utility from these bigger purchases. Maybe a seven thousand dollar watch doesn't feed, clothe, or house someone; however, it does bring utility, perhaps in the sense that it makes someone happy, or feel fulfilled. Even if society may well still continue to operate without name brands such as Rolex, that's not to say that society doesn't benefit from these name brands conducting business. If we take the example of a Rolex watch, consider the amount of time and labor that goes into making one. You'd have a watchmaker, probably several who are tasked with designing and putting together the watch. Perhaps these watchmakers are supervised by guards or other co-workers. Then, the watch itself needs to be transported either through ground or through air, depending on where it needs to be. The watch then needs to be sold by a boutique or online service. Although I'm most likely missing the individual nuance, the overall picture is this: despite what many think, expensive and lavish items do require labor just like any other product. And said labor increases the amount of employed individuals in society--surely this is a net positive?

Materialistic tendencies are an inevitablity of life, and although many would point to its negatives, I argue that there is nothing wrong with it. I explored a possible answer as to why materialism is negative--that lavish spending does not provide any utility to society. I argued against this proposition, stating that while on the surface, spending excessive amounts of money on goods like private yachts may intitially seem "bad," that society does indeed still benefit from these larger purchases. 
