The topic of Materialism is especially releveant in today's society. As consumers we are constantly being fed advertisement and messages, with many times, not even knowing we are consuming this. With the creation of high tech companies over the recent years consumers are constantly being pressured to by the "newest" and "coolest" items. Before we are even able to get used to the current item we own there is already a new version of this item coming out. Materialsim creates this perception of success and happiness. I will argue this is not at all the case.

I believe people buy the "newest" and "coolest" item to further their social status and create a perception that they are extremely successful and happy. This does not mean that the individual is happy. In fact, many unhappy people buy signficant items to help fill a certain void in their life.  They think this will make them happy but they are not addressing the root cause of this. 

In the opposing camp is "Minimalism" which is essentially the exact opposite of Materialism. Minimalists are able to achieve happiness with the bare minimum and only sticking to the essentials. I have had the experience of sociailizing with minimalists and I can see the genuine happiness that they possess. They do not have the pressure of buying new things weighing them down and they are able to live life on life's terms.

The individuals in the camp that do not think materialism should be criticized will argue that a lot of these are beneficial to society and provide many benefits that make our lives easier and convenient.  The problem is that we tend to let the items run our lives and we become so self dependent on them that they will be unable to function without it. One example that I always think about are cellphones. As a society we ahve become so consumed in our mobile devices that our communication skills and social gatherings have suffered.  With a new phone coming out every 6 months it is clear that newest version of these unphones is unnecessary but we ahve been brainwashed to think that we need to get the next best thing.

In conclusion, I believe materialism has been forced down our throat from some many different advertisements and products that it creates a false standard the we NEED these things when in fact we can achieve happiness with so much less. Sharing the life of minimalists is a valid argument to counter those who think that materialism should not be critisized.


