Do images and impressions really mattter when it comes to daily life? I think in far too many ways, it does.

When you sit down and watch television, you find their are a lot commercials, but hardly any content to them. What are they selling? Why are they on TV to begin with? Am I hearing or seeing the truth? An example of this is for an ED commercial. In the commercial you see a good looking middle age doctor explaining the benfits of having the procedure he is spouting. The commercial does not explain the procedure, only that it will help with sexual disfunction. If you have this procedure now, you will get something that will help you in the bedroom today! Now what could that possibly be? If there is medicine out there to help you, don't you think the medical community would be talking about it?

The commercial is all glitz and glamour to get your attention. The image of the doctor is a clean, well groomed man who no longer has ED and can help you get rid of yours. He spouts non sense words to make you believe in what he is trying to sell. But what is it? What is he trying to sell? He's trying to sell a dream. A dream that for many will not work but be very expensive. But, your impression of him is that if you have this procedure you will be good looking and ready to rumble. Is that reality? No. If this procedure works, why does it have to be touted on local television? Why wouldn't your doctor recommend it instead. You don't see commericals for knee replacements and hip replacements. Cleveland Clinic may have a commerical telling us that they are the best, but no specific service. Although they do use the positive impression the commerical makes to get customers in the door. 

What can be done? Well, One side says go and have the procedure, pay thousands for it and see if it works. Yes, that is one way. Another, smarter way may be to do a little research into the company and see what you find. Still another way is to talk to your doctor. See what he says. I know ED can be a real problem for some. And they are willing to risk anything to fix it, but impressions should not sway your decision making process. It needs to be logical. Unfortunately, the image of the good looking doctor and his white teeth may leave the impression that this is a valid cure. I argue it may not be. Look under all the hype and see what happens.

The talk around this new procedure makes it sound like an easy cure for anyone will to give it a try. I started looking into this new procedure and found the commercial is using ultrasound as a medical way to fight ED. How many people know about ultrasound for ED? Why are they using a good looking doctor and having to sell us on it? Because it doesn't work. The company is putting out an image. They are trying to use this image to sell you on a service. The lighting, doctor and commerical are all there to set an impression in the consumers mind. It doesn't matter what they are selling. The image and impression have already sold the service. It's all very well calibrated. Or staged. Some may say that this arguement is wrong. that they believe by the commercial that it will work. I counter that they are selling you on hype to get you in the door. 

Images and impressions affect they way we see and feel about things. We need to be cautius when trying to use this as an informed way to make logical decisions. It's a selling tool.
