Is there anyone in the world who doesn't love beautiful things? As human beings, it is in our nature to gather and covet things that we desire. As a society, our economy thrives during times of high spending. Materialism is a term that is often thrown around to lambast people for greed and fiscal irresponsibility, as if the desire to own things is some sort of personal failing. But is being materialistic really such a bad thing?

During the Cultural Revolution in China, wealthy people were forced to destroy any belongings that were considered an indication of their status. Mae Zaedong was obsessed with cleansing the county of the "four olds": old habits, old customs, old culture, and old ideas. Many priceless treasures were lost under the guise of ushering in a new era of Industialism and minimalism and glory to the State. In reality, it was crypto-facist nonsense.

The belief that owning too many things, spending money on too many things, demonstrates a lack of character. Materialism has been painted as a symbol of a greedy society that has become bloated by excess. We buy clothes and goods made in sweat shops overseas and our landfills grow unmanageable with an unbelievable amount of trash. We line up for hours for the new iPhone while we ignore the homeless on the sidewalk. One could argue, however, that materialism isn't at fault here. It's the rot of late stage capitalism.

Economies turn on spending. Supply and demand. We buy more, we pay more sales tax. We get higher paying jobs to afford our lifestyles, we pay more income tax, property tax, estate taxes. We fund our government with our love for things. We contribute to small businesses in our communities, large businesses that employ our friends and neighbors. We buy international goods that support the upward mobility of developing nations.

But all in all, we buy things that we like because they make us happy. Happy people work harder. Happy people are peaceful. Happy people are kind. There will never be a day when we shouldn't aspire to be a peaceful and kind society. Money may not be able to buy happiness, but it definitely helps. 
