  Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?  I for one will say yes.  People all over the world are fooled daily by things they see and hear in our modern electronic world.  Filters, for example, used on many social networks make it impossible to know if the person you think you are talking to, is in fact the person you think you are talking to..  

  When someone is very attractive maybe they get alot of attention, are very popular and things just seem to go their way. This seems like a great deal but what happens when those looks fade? Are you someone who is thought of as a decent person?  Hopefully you are.

  How many times have you seen and actor and thought "wow he is a big tough guy!"  Only to later find out when he is photographed next to an average 6 foot man, that he is in fact a tiny man?  People get way to caught up in appearances and don't take into account the true makeup of what makes someone special.  Appearances are great and it's nice to be seen as a beautiful image.  However beauty is only temporary.  Everyone on the planet will eventually get older, if they make it, and then what will you be left with?  Hopefully you at some point addressed the true person you are and worked on the things that matter.  Are you a good person? That is what really matters at the end of all this nonsense we are caught up in.  

  Be good. At the end of all of this people will most likely remember if you were liked or even loved.  Hopefully you can find out how to just be good.  It really is the easier route to take.  Being yourself takes a lot less energy than trying to create an image and then uphold it to some made up standards.   Its like the old corny line that rings true,  "always tell the truth and you won't have to remember the story that you made up. " Being yourself is easy, and hopefully your self is someone who has a positive impact on the people that you come in contact with throughout all of your days.

  For some people being yourself may be harder than it sounds.  For whatever reason these people may be seeking approval of others.  Some people realize along the way that the only person you really need to impress is yourself.  You can't spend to much time worrying about what others may think of you.  That is a battle you will never win. Most everyone knows what is right and wrong when it comes to most situations.   Some people just choose to ignore the little voice in their head that  says , "hey this isn't a good idea."
Some people including myself have taken longer than necessary to figure this out.  At some point you have to realize what really matters.  For me that realization is that you truly only need to do it for yourself.  If you are not happy with something in your life, trying to impress others isn't going to do anything for.  Wow I kind of sound like Dr. Phil.
  
  So in summary i would just leave you with this.  Be yourself.  Be the best you that you can.  Your own opinion is the only one that matters.  Be Good.


 

