 Success can be achieved through multiple methods, two being competition and cooperation. In an ideal world, cooperation will always lead to more success, but in reality, many times competition can make people thrive and leads to more success. The different aspects of competition and cooperation play different roles in each person's life and bring out different qualities when talking about producing such lasting accomplishments.
 Competition can make a single person achieve every goal they aspire to reach for a few reasons. One, for example, would be because they aren't motivated unless their success is compared to another's. If a person is always compared to another, that person would almost always believe that that is the only way to reach success. Having every accomplishment being obtained by competition, a person may work much harder and go to greater lengths to get the results that are needed because that person wants to be the first to achieve whatever goal is on their mind at the time. On the other hand, the lengths that the person is willing to go to could be detrimental to the personal character of that person. Competition doesn't always bring out the best qualities of a person. Competition can also drive a person to become obsessed about one milestone or one accomplishment and would not see a bigger picture, which could cause chaos where could be avoided.
 Cooperation can also cause chaos, but in other ways that competition would. While working together, minds and personalities can clash. Multiple people with leadership-like personalities may not want to give another person the spotlight or leadership role when it would be beneficial to the team. Cooperation, though, would allow multiple people to rally off of each other to obtain a larger accomplishment rather than focusing on smaller accomplishments. With there being a group to do multiple tasks, one single person may not want to do something, but will receive as much credit as the rest of the group for the same mileston.
 Cooperation and competition go hand in hand in reaching lasting achievements. While competition may work better for one single person, the cooperation may work better for other people. Each has good things and bad things when pertaining to achieving success, but in the real world, success ultimately depends on each individual person.
