Reality in a world of capitalism is shaped by the corporate world around us, for us, and by us. The human animal is the most intelligent being on the planet, therefore, the most vain and in need of self actualization. The impressions of the whole are fought over by groups as more attention means more material wealth. It is no surprise that vanity is the most profitable of all human aspects with huge budgets devoted to marketing and advertising. The images and impressions built by marketing companies have a great effect on people but is it too much or an expected amount?

Recent history has exploded in its media saturation of the audience but given the increase of intelligent technology it would be expected to take advantage of human vanity for profit. Prior to the technology revolution sellers would have to go from town to town peddling wares and coming up with boisterous claims, ie. snake oil scams and misleading thoughts over the centuries. Therefore, this is not a new thing that has suddenly happened - profit is a main drive for people. Technology just increases audience reach from the simple times and allows for more manipulation of impressions that others can obtain and delve out.

Given the need of large profit to cover their production corporations reach into entertainment, public leaders and emblems to embody a need of want for people at large. The content doesn't really matter or what the product can do in the end. It's the feeling of justification of self for the audience. They may spend more for product A rather than product B because that showy performance was more memorable and made them feel more alive. This cyclic effect drives profit for the company and self image of individual. The company for product B reports losses, they now have to outperform to get their audience back. Marketing reviews what went wrong or well and then they may enhance claims or make a bigger show for the audience.  As a mass people are easily won over by a new show, claim and shiny lights to change opinion easily back and forth no matter the product offering.

With the overwhelming audio and visual sensory onslought people become dulled to the message and can ignore a brand after awhile. Where are the Oscar Meyer weiner jingles? They became funny memes. Where is the promise of a better world by a politician? It has become an crowd hungry angry tweet. Images and impressions are creations of imagination that must be modified over time to retain attention of an audience for profit to drive self actualization of people through life.   

