Introduction:
           Materialism is a kind of belief where everybody posessed about something in their lives. In the materialistic world its not a mistake to posess over on things. People have fantasies like buying things which is really helps them to be happy so taking this as a point in consideration we are spending money on things that we really posess. Actually the word materialism defines that buying and owning things are the important things in life.The essay consists of the good and bas things about materialism as well as some examples which helps us to understand it better.

 The Advantage of Materialism:

        It makes people really happy
        Sometime consuming things makes people to relieve from theri stress
        It cause to earn more
        Its good to spend money on things which value is great in the future
        Sometimes it becomes an actual habit 

The disadvange of Materialism:

             The oddly satisfying thing now a days is owning expensive things or else "owning things". based on my observation over the topic people are in need of buying things to their home, offices and sometimes personal activities which is not bad. when we are hardly earnig money means we can spend some of the amount for our own happiness. people tend to take this in a serious point where they are posessing over things just to show off. Even some of them had a habit of consuming more stuffs and dont know how to use them in thier daily routines. Its more like spending so much on things that're not in proper use. some people may criticize the society to become this irrelavant and marking a false alarm to the future generation.

Examples:

Buying branded things rapidly
Unwanted Online purchases
Modern kitchen Gadgets
Spening so much money on cloths

Conclusion:
                       As a whole i can say that materialism is a nice concept but consuming more stuffs can make us somewhat addicted to things withoot our own realization on how we spend money on things which is actually really hard to earn now. We are spening much more energy on earning money but spening the precious thing on useless things is not a good manner. Im not completely against materialism but somewhat its bad for the society as well as we need things which is actually helps us in our day to day routines thats enough. Everyone in the world posessed over something but we need to know our limits and we need to understand the fact.




