In the modern world, we are surrounded by examples of both cooperative and competitive behavior. While both of these strategies have a time and a place, in the long run people are able to achieve more by focusing on cooperation. 

One of the problems with competition is that it pits people against each other. Competition makes the focus more on becoming number one or beating your opponent rather than achieving whatever the goal is for the task at hand. People become willing to cut off their nose to spite their face. In essence, people will overlook the goal itself in their effort to become number one or to win. People even resort to measures such as cheating, undermining their opponents, sabotaging their opponents, or other nefarious actions in order to win. All of this is counterproductive when we are actually trying to achieve success and accomplish a task. 

On the other hand, when we work cooperatively, we are all focused on the same goal and people are able to come together and use each others' skills to enhance each other. People can build each other up and combine skills. Two heads are often better than one. Where one person might not have the strengths or skills in a certain area, another person will, and the combination of the two can result in greater success than just the one. Also, we are able to avoid conflicts that come with competition which impede overall success and waste precious and valuable time. 

While competition can be valuable in certain settings such as competitive sports and can motivate people to do better, overall it seems to undermine success and be detrimental to the success of groups as a whole. Since our society is depenent on our ability to work together as groups since we are, at the end of the day, one cohesive unit, it is imperative that we learn to cooperate rather than focusing too much on competing with each other. This causes us to lose sight of the goal, and ultimately no one wins. 

Take for example a work group who are trying to solve a complex task. If everyone works together on the task, then they can bring their unique strengths to the table and generate even better ideas. They can work to tweak each other's ideas and come up with the best idea possible to solve the issue. If, on the other hand, everyone is told that only one person's idea will be implemented, we will miss out on all the creative ideas and suggestions of the rest of the group and the ability to evolve an idea with the help of other people. Furthermore, when everyone cooperates to create the idea, everyone will feel pride in the result and will feel a sense of accountability for making it work. If only one person wins and gets to implement their idea, on the other hand, the other group members are left feeling resentment or hostility, and they don't feel a sense of ownership for the ideas or results.You can easily see how this would result in a less productive work environment and less overall success for the team. 

While the United States is an individualistic society, it is still one where we value togetherness and communication with others. If we are all focused on being better than the next person and out-performing them, then we lose focus of our valuable relationships and the things that really matter in life - connections with others. After all, what truly defines success in life? Is it being the best? Winning the prize? Being number one? Or is it feeling fulfilled, happy, and satisfied with your life and your self? True fulfillment and happiness are achieved through positive relationships with other people, and these are best enhanced with cooperation rather than competition.     
      

