Images and impressions of others do have a heavy effect on people and social media is the main culprit.  From influencers on Instagram to so called journalists on Twitter, people are exposed to more and more media and images than they ever were in the past.  Instagram provides a platform for people to view a carefully curated photo that has been carefully staged and even filtered to show only the best aspects of their lives.  Photos that are shared convey to their followers that their life is perfect and more often than not they are selling a product to their followers who want a life just like theirs.  People are fascinated by getting a look into the influencer's lives and feel a personal connection since it seems they are directly speaking to them.  

Twitter on the other hand is rife with users sharing their opinion and supposed journalists reporting biased news.  People believe that just because they have journalist in their bio that they are credible and free of bias.  They report the news and since most people do not read past the headline in a post they can manipulate how the reader feels early on.  Twitter also feels like you can form a personal connection to celebrities and other perceived powerful figures so it makes it easy to form groups with other like minded followers and then comment your agreements with the celebrity.  Also Twitter is filled with promoted tweets that uses AI to carefully curate advertising that caters to your searches and interests to make it seem like your are following that company. 

The internet and social media are great becase it gives everyone a voice and access to others but it is also a curse because it gives everyone a a voice and access to others.  Images can easily be manipulated, opinions can be swayed, and beliefs can be molded and just like in reality money and power controls it all.  The best users can do is verify all information and use their best judgment to know that not everything you see on the internet is real and valid. 
