     In today's modern world visual appearance is a selling point. The evolution of advertising has brought us to a point where if people are not visually stimulated then they are not interested. This has caused the appearance of things be more important than the substance of things.
     As technology has made our lives easier, it has also made us lazier. We rely on technology to give us information and we want that information quickly. Our easy access to information has shortened our attention spans and made the first glance the most important glance, and often the only glance. If something isn't visually appealing we don't pay attention to it. On the flip side, if something is visually appealing we can pay too much attention to it. By judging things from their appearance it prevents us from really getting to know the substance of things and being able to make a decision about what is really worthy of our attention. 
     We also tend to make quick judgements based on images that we see on television and social media, and don't always take the time to get the whole story behind an image. Pictures are easy to manipulate to tell a story that may not be true and with the prevalance of social media it is easy to get a picture viewed by millions of people in a short amount of time. Pictures are only a snapshot of a story, though, and rarely tell the whole truth. If we rely only on images we see to gather information about the world, our information will be faulty.
     There are some good things that come with visually stimulating images. Advertisers are able to draw attention to their products and create successful advertising campaigns. Being able to bring attention to important issues using pictures and images can create some good social activisim opportunites. But the prevalance of eye catching images can also dull the senses to the point that people no longer pay attention to the important parts of the message. It also creates an illusion of importance around things that may not be important, while taking attention away from things that are important.
     The way things look has taken on an importance that is drawing our attention away from the things that really matter. We need to change our focus from how something looks to what things really are, and how things affect our lives on a larger scale. 
     
