In this day and age, people are continuously encouraged to "find their true selves", make themselves happy, and focus on their goals, dreams, or pusuits. But can true happiness be found through self contentment and focus alone? Is there more to self growth than the self? 

Throughout the ages, societies have been built upon community, cooperation, and group vision. These foundations are not possible if one only thinks of themselves and their own personal goals. Many goals and aspirations are only attainable with the help of others, even if some would not like to admit this fact. One may believe that they are successful because of the hard work they have put in to producing a product or a service. Perhaps they forgot that getting their product or service to people requires some type of community infrastructure. These infrastructures, whether digital or physical, must be in place in order for someone to profit from their purchase. Someone, or rather a group of people made those infrastructures possible for the greater good of everyone. These infrastructures facilitate the transfer of goods, services, communications, ideas.

All of these things being bought and sold, shared or communicated helped someone to better themselves or their community, perhaps at the same time. Everything really is tied together and this shared experience, conscious or unconscious, ideally brings balance to our society. If some individuals fail to recognize this, it does not stop others from continuing the cycle on their behalf. 

Yes, true happiness comes from community, cooperation and group vision. Helping others makes people happy. But you can't force people to see this, they must find out for themselves, and sometimes it takes time. But they are still in the cycle and participating, even if they aren't aware of it. They may make someone else happy because someone found inspiration from a blog about thier personal success. They may make someone happy with the art or music they've created and posted online. They may make someone else happy by giving them a job; someone has to deliver all of those orders to "unsocial people",  only thinking of themselves, staying at home all the time.

In short, happiness is relative to the individual, and all encompassing to the group, aware or unaware. This is the cycle and humor of the universe. All intertwined at once. I don't think it matters what path you take to get happy, you'll get there one way or the other, with the help of people you've never even thought of or could imagine.
