I certainly agree with the view that the path to happiness  involves a life of service to others; i.e., that when people focus on the happiness of others or on the general improvement of humanity, they are more likely to find inner peace and self-worth.  Naturally all of us will have a different "take" on this question, and the query is not one that implicates science or general knowledge or advanced education.  The "data" that each of us take into this calculation is simply our own personal experiences and observations.

With this in mind, probably we should each begin with an examination of personal events, decisions, and consequences in our lives that have shaped our opinions on the matter. As a relatively old person (63 years old) I have a decent retrospective upon the long road I have traveled.  In addition the question is certainly one that has been important and relevant in my life and I can say honestly that it is one I have thought upon many times and tried to answer. 

As a child (four years old) my parents were divorced and I was permanently separated from my father.  My mother remarried a cruel and selfish man who was an officer in the U.S. Army, and immediately upon that event we departed the United States and began a rather typical military collection of travels and arrivals and departures that consumed (in my life) the next fifteen years.  We began in Kure, Japan and before I left home as a teenager we had also lived in Yokohama, Japan; Aberdeen MD; Medford MA; South San Francisco CA; Presidio at San Francisco, CA; Okinawa; Pattaya, Thailand; Fort Lee VA.

My parents began a new family with me in tow.  From the beginning I was excluded, excommunicated, demeaned, abused, & etc. because each of my parents had their own reasons to hate the person I apparently represented; i.e., my biological father, with whom I had no contact.  So I was in a highly vulnerable state for many years, thousands of miles away from anyone else who even knew my name, including extended family, who I rarely saw ever again. 

I describe this beginning not to elicit sympathy but to support my first relevant conclusion, which is that from an early age I knew well enough that I could not trust my own family or even the standard institutions of U.S. military life.  (As one example I recall on occasion when I was barely six when my stepfather essentially ripped open my eyelid with an unexpected backhand, requiring immediate surgery to stop the bleeding.  I was told to lie to the doctors and nurses ["I ran into a doorknob"], which I suppose was enough to excuse my stepfather from any investgation.)  I knew early enough that my acquisition of "happiness" could not rely on any instructions or advice I received from parents or other typical institutions, but from my own analysis and evaluation and judgments. 

At first I thought that career success would bring me happiness.  So, after enlisting in the military I devoted myself for several decades to the problem of working all day and schooling all night.  It seemed to bring rewards.  I was named the base "Airman of the Year" and was gifted a military engineering scholarship. (My military career occurred at a time when there wasn't a 'G.I. Bill'.)  I graduated from a respected university with an aerospace engineering degree and, I thought, had "arrived" as a military engineer.

But my parents still were not proud of me or would not admit to any mistake with respect to their treatment of me, so I then decided that if I married well my parents would be proud, and this would be the key to happiness.  I need not go into this decade-long quagmire in any detail as the result was so predictable.

Later on I graduated from grad school with a Master's degree.  Then I went to law school, the best in my state, graduating near the top of my class and passing the state bar in my mid-40s.

Alas, I could not find decent employment with all my credentials and accomplishments.  It seems that hiring in the legal field was more a matter of cronyism than objective merit.  My life since then has been marked by immense student debt, low pay, loss of my home to foreclosure, & etc.

But it was only at this point that I began to acquire some happiness.  I met a young couple with children. Both were disabled.  I decided to let them use my home in one state while I traveled for work to another state for three years, because the wife had contracted cancer and they were extremely financially distressed.  Not having children of my own it was probably the first occasion when I had actually "given" something important to another human being without expecting some compensation in return.

Since that day some twenty years ago I have continued to care, as best I could, for their needs.  I still pay their rent and bills, though my own resources are thin.  Sadly the wife is losing her battle with cancer and will probably not live much longer, but she has graduated two children from a fine high school and is proud of the achievement.

And I share her pride, seeing something tangible and valuable having sprouted from my "gift."


