We as a society have always looked for ways to improve the productivity within ourselves and those around us.  One method that we use is to improve cooporation with the idea that by grouping together they can produce better results.  We have also sometimes turned to competition in the hopes that the drive to be better than others and bring out the best in us.  While both have their merrits, overall cooporation causes less issues and offers more benefits than competition.

Great works are rarely done by one exceptional individual.  Instead, development is typical done by groups of people utilizing their specialized skills to form a cohesive whole.  This is why we form groups in the first place: towns and cities, friend groups and neighborhoods, companies and corporations.  We've inately understood that more is done by a group working cooperatively.  As such, it makes sense then that tactics to improve cooporation would be better for these groups to improve their very reason for organizing in the first place.  

The drive to compete can make sense on the surface.  It is through competition that we see individuals bring out their best.  It is through competition that companies focus more on better products and avoid the waste caused by resting on their laurals.  Competition indeed has it's place.  However, competition applied recklessly can be dangerous.  When the goal is less about the actual result and more about doing better than others, people quickly find that focusing on the best accomplishments may not result in the victory.  instead of making the best product, it might be better to destroy everyone else's works to make yours look better, for example.  Competition isn't always the quest for the best.  It can easily lead to a race to pull everyone to the bottom instead.

Cooporation can achieve the same 'drive to be the best' without the negative emotions and behaviors caused by competition.  If the group is all in sync in their desire for a particular goal, especially if that goal presents a difficult challenge, the indivdiuals will feel a need to push themselves just as hard as a competitive contest.  However, their fellows are their allies, not their enemies.  Helping them out will now be seen as a boost toward the overall goal.  Success on their side of the task becomes a benefit to yourself and your own goals as their goals are your goals.  It can even motivate you to work harder so that 'everyone's work won't be in vain'.  In a competition, a slacker is a boon: one person you could easily beat.  A person that needs help is an opportunity to push past them or kick them when they are down, even at the cost of the overall goal.   In cooporation, a slacker is a danger that needs to be corrected or removed.  A person in need should be helped and pulled up to better help the whole.  In this way, cooporation can bring the same benefits that competition can do without the negatives.  Competition, however, cannot mimic the benefits of cooporation.

There is a use and benefit to competition.  Applied properly, it can bring great results.  However, while competition can seem flashy and feel like bringing the best from people, cooperation can bring the same benefits and offer more to the table.  As such, when we wish to achieve success in our lives or the world, we should put the focus on cooporation with those around us rather than trying to turn the world into a competitive tournament.  
