  The shiny new Apple iPhone shows up everywhere you look in perfect clarity and with smooth, attractive photos zoomed up to show the greatest detail.  McDonald's shows their Big Mac larger than life, with shiny, fresh-looking ingredients stacked ever-so-neatly in an amazing order that your mouth waters as you look at it.  The beachfront resort shows a perfect room with a view of a calm ocean and well-groomed beach with amazing, slim, muscular, perfectly-tanned beach goers scattered throughout the white sand.

  With the incredible amount of advertising that we are exposed to every time we watch TV, go online or even just check our email, we are all too familiar with any host of glossy advertising images that we see on a daily basis.  We are left to believe that everything we see is better than what we have, and that what is being offered is going to not only make our lives far better than they already are, but we are actually suffering the longer we go without it.  Politicians and entertainers, not to mention internet influencers, tell us that their lives are of an ideal that we can only hope to one day attain.  We see all of this and wonder if we somehow are so inferior that we have little hope of ever obtaining the life that these others make us believe we are missing out on. 

  However, if we shut out all the noise, turn off the TV and put down our smartphones, we can quickly discover that all of this impressionism is faulty, to the extent that it is actually dimishing our self esteem and self worth.  We aren't going to suddenly have it all together if we have the latest smartphone and our lives are not going to feel more worthwhile if we stay at the right hotel, drive the right car or wear the right clothing.  These false images are simply advertiser's way of trying to make us feel inadequate and get us to open our wallets to try to buy our way to feeling better about ourselves. 

  When was the last time a major purchase brought you great, lasting satisfaction?  Never.  How often has the politician, actor or wealthy person been found out to have some major flaws or huge moral misgivings that revealed that their lives aren't everything we were led to believe?  We shouldn't live our lives in envy or believe that these images are real or lasting.

  Contentment is the key to avoiding images and impressions having too great of an effect on us.  Being happy with what we have, enjoying those that we get to spend time with on a daily basis and being pleased to have work and others to spend our efforts on will keep us from being caught up in a life of want and frustration.  Being grateful for all that we are blessed with daily will change our want or need for the newest, shiniest whatever and help us to truly enjoy our lives.
