    People are the happiest when focusing on the happiness of others. Focusing on others brings great self love because you know that you are truly making a difference in the lives of others. Seeing someone else happy can be one of the most uplifting moments, knowing you helped make it happen for them. To see the smile on someone else's face as true happiness will bring true happiness to  you as well. Making the people you love happy will make you happy daily. Also while you are working on making others happy they will be working on your happiness, it's a win-win for everyone. Happiness for everyone is a victory for everyone. 
    While focusing on your own goals may seem like the way to achieve happiness, it isn't. It would be nearly impossible to enjoy your happiness if everyone around you was miserable. Imagine, you have all the material things that make you happy, but everyone else is poor and living in the streets. You would have everything but no one to share it with. Your life would feel empty even with all of your possessions that your thought were your happiness because you have no one or no group to share it with. As much as well all want our own personal happiness we can't achieve that without the people around us being happy as well. 
    In closing, helping others is always the right choice. It will bring happiness and a full heart to you to help others whenever you can. Having all the material items in the world doesn't bring happiness if you have no one to share it with, also finding your own happiness will only last as long as your ability to be alone. Once your find people you really care about, their happiness will be all that matters to you from that point on. Self love and happiness start with having a giving heart and the ability to put others first. Having a giving and charitable heart are the two biggest things I want to pass down to my own son. Doing for others provides a lifetime of happiness that can't be matched. You will achieve true happiness and inner peace when you discover the importance of others happiness over your own. Live to serve! 

