As human society has progressed, the ability of individuals in each social tier to acquire more belongings has increased. It is no doubt that humans today are better off than humans in ages past - refrigeration, electricity, plumbing, and automobiles have greatly increased the comfort many individuals experience. Outside of these luxuries, now largely considered essentials particularly in the western world, the ability of individuals to acquire smaller items has greatly increased. It is not uncommon for households to have an abundance of clothing, smaller electronic items, knick knacks, and toys. In some houses it is not uncommon to see borderline mountains of junk, leading some to question why modern society appears to fixate on the accumulation of items. Whether modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic likely depends on the cultural and economic background of the individual considering the question - the western world, built on capitalism and consumerism, could very reasonably be argued to be too materialistic. However, I would argue the fault lies not with the individuals purchasing items, but with the corporate and media infrastructure purposefully designed to promote materialism and excess.

As stated above, outside of essentials such as microwave ovens, refrigerators/freezers, air conditioning/heating units, plumbling, and in the modern era perhaps vehicles, cell phones, and internet service, the average individual in the western world has access to extreme amounts of items that ultimately are produced for the express purpose of being purchased and consumed. In this way, the western world could reasonably be criticized for being too materialistic - many companies produce products that serve no real purpose other than to be purchased and ultimately end up in a landfill, or worse in the oceans. Holiday advertising focuses on using gifts to show love, with amazing "deals" that boost companies' bottom lines. The "Black Friday" holiday, so named because it is the day many companies move their revenues from "red" to "black" and become profitable, is a stark reminder of the capitalist foundation upon which the western world resides. However it stands to remember that the reason advertisting continues to be so heavily utilized, and the reason Black Friday begins earlier and earlier each year, is because individual consumers continue to spend their money at ever increasing rates. How can companies be at fault for excess materialism when there are larger and larger massess throwing money at them for trinkets and items ultimately destined to be forgotten garbage? How can Amazon be blamed for putting the acquisition of hundreds of dollars of stuff only a click away, when people clamor for that very service? In some ways this becomes a "chicken or egg" quandry - individuals seem to want more stuff, and companies are happy to sell it to them. If modern western society is indeed too materialistic, which it certainly seems to be, which element of society should be criticized?

I would argue that the fault still lies largely with the corporate and media infrastructure. The field of advertising is as much a foray into human psychology as it is into graphic design - visual ads are meticulously designed to be eye-catching, cereal boxes placed at eye-level in grocery stores, field theory dictating the layout of shapes of sizes designed to appeal to basic circuitry in the human brain. Further, ads are also designed to appeal to emotional aspects of the human psyche - ads are designed to make people feel special if they purchase a product, or feel like part of an exclusive club, or that they are 'missing out' if they don't own such a product. Some of the more subtle, perhaps insidious, ads are designed to prime the human mind so that without even being aware of it, there is increased desire for a type of product. Modern advertising, fueld by algorithms and petabytes of data from Google or Facebook, is more personalized such that individuals see ads catered to their preferences. How can the individual be at fault for spending money when there are entire fields of study dedicated to finding the most efficient ways to part the individual from their money? Yes, western society is materialistic, but I would argue this is in large part due to the constant stream of advertisements bombarding us. 

Whether this materialism is 'bad' is perhaps another matter and depends again on who is being asked. Some might argue that despite the excess accumulation of items, many of these items provide entertainment or make the purchaser happy for even a brief while. And after all, what is the purpose of money if not to spend it? Yet I, as a non-corporate entity, take the stance that materialism in the sense of owning ever-increasing amounts of 'stuff' without any apparent use or redundant use, is a feature of the modern western world that is worthy of criticism. Mega-tons of plastic and packaging with no purpose other than to be waste, flashy advertising designed to sell sell sell, and a corporate culture promoting 'haves' and 'have-nots' result in what we see - people working long hours at their jobs, many being underpaid, with the purpose of spending what little money remains after essentials to buy more and more stuff. 
