              TikTok influencers, celebrities, even in our daily FaceBook feed, we encounter what seems to be the ideal life. We are told to strive for this perfection and we accept the blatant lie that is is actually achievable. It is nothing new either, commercials on tv that our grandparents watched have it, and farther back into old printed ads in newpapers or magazines. What this does is create an unhealthy dislike of the normal and mundane. The real true stories around us are not happening in pristine kitchens or hugely decorated homes. For certain, the politicians and stars we are led to look up to, support, and nearly worship, are not showing their true colors. These images we are given influence us way too much. 


This growing craze is a problem, shown in fact by the highest number of teens and young adults reporting depression and anxiety, as well as other health concerns. When we try to look perfect and have these "post worthy" outings, we are losing something precious in the process. The real enjoyment of life. Mothers who are overwhelmed with their messy houses, loads of laundry, and who struggle to feed their kids more than chicken nuggets - yet they watch in awe as these famous beautiful moms from stardom have three course meals on a fancy decorated table with the entire family present, and not even a stain on the kids clothes! We see what they pack in lunch boxes, while curing ourselves for giving the kid a premade PBJ. 

What we don't see is the yelling, stress, money, and preparation that goes into that one single photo frame or 30 second video blog. Whether they are fortunate enough to have someone else clean their messes, housekeep, nanny the kids, we do not know. Do they slave over all the expensive dishes used just for a second, washed and painstakinly packed back into a cabinet, while they bring out paper plates for seconds? They absolutely do. They look forward to take out night just as much as you and me. 

Let's switch to the younger generation. Teenage years are hard even with out social media to compare yourself to. Photos of stars on the beach or at concerts, maybe huge parties. They look pristine with not an ounce of extra fat on them, and they pose perfectly to show off the jawlines, the waists, the colored funky hair. Leaving kids at home wondering, "Why aren't I like that?" Yet again we must see those snippets of their lives as what they are - a perfect pose with good lighting, to showcase a small moment of their day. Every person has their own flaws, be it stretch marks, a scar, maybe a nose they think is too big. All of these things are tabboo to show in social media and we trick (or are tricked) into thinking that somehow they don't exist for these people. 

Why might this be a good thing? What purpose is fulfilled by showing a perfect snippet of life, seeing an actor or politician in their best light. For one, it sells. The beautiful model in the Tesla, wearing the fancy watch, that brand of shampoo making her hair shine. Do we need the next new product, or is our old one just fine? Do they simply want us to spend money in an endless cycle that profits only the higher ups? The new political candidates showing that hey, of course we help the children, look at me stopping by this food pantry for a picture to prove it! If they look amicable enough, we can overlook their disastrous policies and they can get votes. You can say there are many reasons, but ultimately it wears down the mental health of all citizens, and even those brave enough to try and keep up with trends. 

The few things I'd like you to take from this are - love yourself. We are all flawed, and that isn't a bad thing. We love, cry, hug, hold friends and family. Enjoy these moments of a messy table, messy children, it's normal and you are doing perfect. To my teen friends, don't let your own worth get overshadowed by media. It is lighting and tricks, while you are real and genuine. Pay less attention to what they're trying to have us believe, pay more attention to the world you have around you.
