       In today's society, materialism is presented to the average person almost everyday through ads, seeing what our friends and neighbors have, as well as daily needs for things to maintain our lives. Modern society should however, be critisized for being materialistic because it has become excessively wasteful and does not give us long term satisfaction.

      Materialism only brings a short term joy, obtaining the object you wanted, until the next one is desired, so on and so forth. In the long term these objects go out of fashion, or quickly become useless and get thrown into landfills. This idea of obtaining things to make one happy is cyclical in where you are pressured to obain something, and once that is obtained the persuit and happiness is gone. Thus, you are then presented with the next object that you must obtain to regain that short term happiness.

    Materialism also takes away your time and money to be able to do experiential things.  This may be opinion, but getting to have lifetime experiences either on a solo trip or spending time with friends and family cannot be measured the same way as obtaining a material object. You cannot get tired of a good memory or throw away the time you already spent with your family. 

     In addition to only bringing short term happiness, materialism also creates waste in landills. This becomes a long term problem as well since most items cannot be recycled, and the ones that can, cannot be recycled indefinetly. This creates a growing problem to our environment. Wasted materials continue to pile up and the land for people and animals is destroyed. Materialsm is not sustainable. 

     While some may counterargue that materialism does bring joy and permenance to people where some items are passed down and have sentimental value, these only count for a small percentage of items and exchanges. In today's society while we are having shipping issues we do see more people turning to vintage clothing and furniture and upselling things they already have. This can be a good solution to waste and spending on short term happiness. However, at the end of the day these things do not uphold indefinetly and have an expiration date in terms of value and material longevity. For example a family heirloom can eventually be forgotten or deemed worthless if the family all dies out.

    Ultimately, materialism is an extremely toxic aspect of modern life. Our desire to have the latest things creates only short term happiness, which we go back to again and again to recreate. There is an environmental toll to this where things are thrown away or forgotten in landfills. And while one may argue things can be reused, this does not solve the fact that things cannot be reused indefinetly. 


