Images and impressions have a large effect on people in this day and age. It is everywhere, with social media TV, and Billboards. You can not go a day with out seeing some sort of image trying to send you a message. Impressions of people are on minds every day and they effect us more today, to the point of obsesion and it is a very negativly charged thing.

I believe it has come to be ridiculas, the amount of time energy and emotion spent on images and impressions. It has brought about cancel culture in unpresidented way. People believe the images they see as truth without any research. If I see it it must be true, mentality. If I believe what I see, everyone else is wrong, todays thought process.

It could have something to do with the pandamic and so much screen time. Honestly, people just having to much time on their hands have brought thid to a new level. There is a meme for anyway you feel politiclly, socially, and anything you like to do. Everyone's  opinions are out there right up in your face. It brings out the worst in some people. 

Everyone has a impression of people in the spotlight and think it is thier responsibility to be judge, jury, and exicutioner. If you dont have a good impreesion of someone today you can just start  a page and try to cancel them. 

Some people may say that all this is good, that the changes brought on by all this media and cancel culture are making society better. We are moving forward. due to all the access to images and the ability to share your impressions of people, every one is getting woke. Seems more like a precurser to civil war.

Ultimantly, all that this brings is more devisiveness and people are  just nasty. You cant throw away an image once it is out there in this day and age, but you can ban a book. Make no sense to me at all. People take images and and impressions as if it is the the bible of today. The effect is negative. Too much of anything is a challange and we have an overload of both now. The more you see the more you have to process.
