It's a time old question about materialism.  An older generation vs newer generation debate.  Should modern society be criticized for being to materialistic?  For being too needy and wanting too much?  Everyone will have a different idea about what exactly is needed and when someone is being to materialistic.  For me, living well beyond our needs, fits that description pretty well.

One great example is the people that have to have the newest electronics coming out.  Phones, for instance, are a big one for me.  People have a nice phone that still works perfectly and does everything it should, yet they feel the need to run out and buy a super expensive new phone as soon as it's released.  Another good example would be a tv.  One that works perfectly well but a newer tv with a better picture comes out or a bigger picture and people feel the need to run out and buy it as soon as they can.  Food would be another great topic.  We go to a grocery store to buy a can of soup.  There's a buy 2 get one free sale.  So we end up leaving with 3 cans instead of 1 when we didn't need it.  Vehicles are yet another example of materialism.  People feel the need to have the newest vehicle with the most features.  They'll trade in a perfectly good vehicle that still has a lot of life left in in that's already paid off and put themselve under a mountain of debt just to have the newest vehicle on the block. 

Now you could say well this new phone had a feature on it my old one didn't or even a better camera.  You could justify a tv by saying the old one's screen was getting dark or that it has new smart tv features that the old one didn't.  But did you really truely need a new item?  the answer would be no.  The old one still had a job, function, and served it's purpose.  Food can be a touchier subject, expecially in the world today.  Some people feel the need to prep  for worse case scenarios.  I understand that.  But there are people that just spend money on food because it's "a good deal".  When in reality it's just a way for the store to make more money in the long run.
 
There are many examples of materialism listed above, but there are many, many more ways that our society is materialistic.  Our ancesters did not have even a quarter of the materials that we have today.  Many people wouldn't be able to make it a day living the way our ancestors did.  Putting in the hard work that they did without all the helpful tools and machinary.  


