Materialism is controversial. To a certain degree, we cannot live without at least some material goods, yet it is also easy for most of us to strive, perhaps without realizing it, to live to excess. With today's concern regarding the effects of dire climate change likely within many of our lifetimes, excess consumption and the over accumulation of "things" becomes an important topic to discuss.

I maintain that we may actually become happier and lead a less stressed life if able to work toward a more minimalist lifestyle. For example, if needing to relocate from one home to another, it is much easier and less expensive if at the time of the move you're only living with the items you really need and actually use. (Of course, it isn't really appropriate to dispose of everything, move, and then buy everything all over again!) Another example is having, say, an excess number of certain clothing items. Might it be you have 15 pairs of shoes, but throughout a given month or year only actually wear 3-4 of those pairs of shoes? Could you have simply not acquired those extra shoes in the first place and lived on without issue?

At least in the United States, it is obvious many Americans are overbuying during especially the last three months of the year; October through December. Halloween candy is advertised as early as August. Thanksgiving for many is a time to eat as much as possible, with there probably also being much wasted food. Black Friday sales (?) encourage people to show up extremely early, wait in long lines, and then "fight" fellow shoppers for the best deals. Deals on items they may not even need. (Is someone literally going to die if they don't have that large screen TV in their life?) And then there's Christmas. Who, these days, considers one gift given from one to another 'sufficient'. Especially for children, there are often several, 5-10 gifts or more, received.

There are, of course, opposing views to all of this. A common phrase is akin to "You only live once. I'm going to enjoy life right now while I am here." (There is also the concept of "You cannot take it with you." So, isn't it selfish, greedy, to be accumulating all of this "stuff", much of which may be of no use or not wanted after one's death?) Another line of thinking is "I worked hard for my money and so I'm going to spend it as I wish."

Something I'd like everyone to remember is we really do have limited space and limited resources, with an ever growing population. How is what we are doing, collectively, sustainable? What will life be like for children born today when they are 60 years old? There is already more than enough poverty. Please consider 2023 the year when we each find a way we can consume less of something, and have an equivalent if not higher quality of life.
