What brings you happiness? Are you happier when you accomplish your own goals or are you happier when you help others with their own happiness? Majority of people achieve happiness from pursuing their dream, goals, and interests. Happiness is selfishness.

People who are career focused always put their work first. They try to climb the ladder. They put the deciated hours in and the sacrificed time for the career. They get their happiness when the get a raise, bonus, or even a promotion. All this hard work is bulit and produces this joy. This joy is a personal achievement. 

Other people express happiness through hobbies and interests. People go to events like musicals and concerts because they get this collective happiness by being in the crowd. Its a public setting where everybody is having fun but its personal to everyone. They relate to the artist at a concert in their own way. They have their own experiences with the music that brings them joy.

Some might find happiness when they focus on others happiness or focus on improving humanity. Some say "aiming at something other than their own happiness, they find happiness long the way." But this finding happiness  in other people is a personal interest. At the core of it, it is a personal goal. This person's goal is self interested even though it so happens to focus on other's happiness. Other people's happiness is their goal. That goal makes the person happy. This is a collective positive goal that bring happiness to everyone but that person wouldnt care to help other if it didnt make them feel good, warm, and happy in the inside themselves.

Down to the core of happiness, it really is just a selfish pursuit. There is the hard work of those career focused people getting happiness from accoplishing career goals. Concert goers find person joy at live events. Even people helping those in need are just trying to satisfy their own happiness with other people. Happiness is a personal experiences that can be shared with other but its based on the individual.  
