The question to be discussed is whether people are happier if they pursue their own personal dreams or whether they are happier if they concentrate on creating happiness for others. My position is that people are happier if they pursue their own personal dreams. Why? Some people gain happiness by making other people happy. This is true. But this just means that their personal goal is to make other people happy. Thus, by making other people happy they are actually pursuing their own goal and therefore pursuing their own happiness. One person's goal might be to sail on the ocean in their own yacht. They only think of the pleasure they will get from this and the sense of achievement they might feel from learning the necessary skills and from earning the financial freedom to do this.  Another person's goal might be help people in trouble on the ocean.  That person may learn rescue skills and join an organization dedicated to saving people, such as people being smuggled to another country. The latter person has proably acquired many of the same skills as the former person, in terms of seamanship and safety on the water. But, that latter person seems less selfish. But are they? By helping other people, they are also satisfying their own goal of doing good for others.  The question is, are some people are inherently selfish while others are inherently good? I assert that most people are a mixture of the two. Which aspect dominates is shaped by an interaction of their nature, upbringing, culture, and experiences. It could be argued that humans could all be made less self-centered if we could find the right mixture of these factors and shape our societies to provide them. But in the end, we would be instilling the feeling that being happy requires serving others and makeing them happy. And so, as argued above, as making other people happy is their dominant way of becoming happy themselves, they are happiest pursuing their own goals. It is jsut that the goals involve making other people happy. 
