Happiness is a concept that is completely unique and wide ranging for every individual that has ever lived.  The inherent emotion is actually a collective of feelings that culiminate into the general definition of being happy.  But what is happiness even?  Most would say it is a feeling of joy or sudden exuberance as a response to an event or continued feelings of satisfaction.  With this, it is to wonder, if people are more happy in their personal goals and growth or at or with the happiness of others?

My own belief is that it is hard to categorize the feelings of another individual since you can't truly know what someone is feeling.  But, my own personal experience, is that I feel a greater joy in the focus of socially experiencing others.  As a social creature, humans love to interact and feel with others.  The reason for our existence is from cooperative efforts throughout our lifespan.  While you can obviously experience happiness from personal goals and maybe career or academic achievement, these are short lived due to the isolated nature of those achievements.  You may look back on them, but there is no sense of connectiveness with others that you can share and relate most of those achievements and goals long term.  Will someone really reflect deeply with you and build strong bonds based on your promotions or certifications?

As a collective experience, building a story that you can share in others will last a lifetime.  My most precious memories are the joys I have shared with others, and I have kept those moments in my mind to replay over time.  Things like, attending my little brother's wedding or the look on my nephew and nieces faces at christmas when they open their toys from me.  These are things I feel are more important to my overall happiness rather than thinking about the grueling nature of my own goals.  It reminds me why I do the things I do, to see others happy, which in turn provides me with happiness myself and that's worth it's weight in gold.
