Are you happy right now?  What makes you happy?  What is the definition of happiness?

These are questions that many people think about.  For many people there is a focus on "being happy".  But what does that mean? Is happiness reasonable to achieve?  Does happiness mean the same thing to everyone or is it different for everyone?  This essay will attempt to look at what happiness means and what contributes to it.  More specifically we will look at whether people are happier when putting themselves first, i.e. doing what makes them happy regardless of others, or if they are happier when doing for others.

I believe that in order to achieve happiness, one must have a balance between doing things for themselves and doing for others.  Now, the balance doesn't need to be 50/50, and it will vary from person to person.  I believe some people will have more of a need to focus on putting themselves first...pursuing their dreams and/or personal goals.  Others won't feel this need and will feel more content focusing on others.  The ratio will be based on a myriad of factors including:  DNA (their own personal makeup), family makeup (are they from a poor or rich family, white or asian or african american), their upbringing (from a stable family or unstable), personal experiences growing up (secure, stable home, friends, traveled, educated or poor, no family or abandoned, sick, drop out).


Then, we must look at how those factors affect an individual.  For example, person 1 comes from a poor family.  Father abusive, out of work, living month to month in a small apartment, difficult to go to school consistently.  This person may grow up and say "  I'm making a better life for myself, because no one is there to help me, so I'm going to focus on me."  This person will put themselves first and until they feel they are ok personally, may not focus on any outside goals.  Or, person 1 may grow up and say "I had a tough life, but I don't want others to deal with what I did, so I'm going to help others and support others so they may have a happier life."
Again the individual's attributes and upbringing will sway this.

Alternatively, person 2 comes from an upper middle class family.  Father and mother both work, plenty of money, secure home life.
Gets A's in school, involved in clubs, goes on multiple vacations with family.  This person may say, " I have a good life, but I want more so I'm going to keep going focusing on me...more money, more prestige, etc"  Or they may say "I've had a good life and I'm happy with that...I have what I want/need, so I'm going to focus on helping others."

We must also consider an individuals emotional and mental health as well.  Many individuals have been emotionally damaged or have mental health issues which affect the happiness equation.  For these people, they have less of a choice..they must first focus on pursuing their own goals, to become more healthy emotionally/mentally in order to  

There are many other combinations or possible scenarios....the millionaire who gets in a horrible car accident, almost dies, but pulls through, and after recovering, decides to spend all his time/money volunteering for charitable organizations because he is so glad/appreciative to be alive.  And so on.


