Happiness is a very subjective idea with many different ways of existing. It can be had through personal experiences and from witnessing the happiness of others. What could be defined as happiness for one person could be completely different for another. It can be self-directed or benevolent. It's the ultimate goal to feel complete.
Humans tend to be more focused on their own happiness rather than the happiness of others. It's a feeling we all strive for in our lives to make ourselves feel whole and satisfied. Everyone has dreams and goals in life from the time we're children and they can last until we die whether we've achieved them or not. When dreams and goals are hard to reach, great happiness can be had when they come to fruition. You reflect back on your hard work to get to where you wanted to be and that satisfaction brings happiness. But our dreams and goals don't have to be grandiose to bring about happiness.
Some people find happiness when they are able to witness others experiencing happiness. This is something most parents experience when watching their children grow. They take joy in seeing their child's face light up when they receive a gift they were hoping for or achieving a new milestone that they worked hard to arrive at. People can find happiness when they witness progression in society such as underprivileged groups gaining equal rights or people coming together to help someone in need. 
When a person achieves a personal dream or goal, it can also lead to experiencing others' happiness. Setting up a charity drive or fundraiser starts out as a personal goal. When that person reaches that goal, they get to experience the joy and gratefulness of the people they aimed to help.
At humanity's core, we always come back to self-directed happiness being the more likely kind of happiness that people wish to achieve. Even when we experience joy in someone else's happiness, there's still some selfishness to the concept because others' happiness affirms our beliefs, wants and desires. 
