The winner of the game may not be the Most Valuable Player. One person does not carry the whole team and an individual cannot be all things to all people. There is an on going argument in the world as to whether cooperation or competition help people to achieve more success. However, life and history seem to have proven that cooperation makes for the best results

Cooperation between parties is essential for overall success. One individual cannot possibly complete all tasks, particularly on large projects. One individual cannot amass and maintain all of the skills needed to complete the work that must be done. Think of a ball team: a player cannot be both defense and offense. The player would become exhausted quickly and the performance would suffer. Most players have natural talents and areas of expertise. Individuals cannot be the best receiver, the best quarterback, and the best tight end, even if he could be in three places at once. Working in cooperation brings overall success to a project and can speed up the completion of a project. That would ultimately allow for more work to be done as tasks and projects can be completed more quickly. Cooperation also breeds helpfulness and community. 

Some people may argue that competition is better. Some people are driven by competetion, but what good would it be to have two competing groups working on a single project? It would be more productive and more successful to have each group working on a separate project and get two things successfully completed. Some would argue that competition will push individuals to preform better, and then you could, of course, pick the best. However, the world does not run on individuals. Competition may be helpful in small and certain scenarios, but overall, cooperation is essential to survival. If our world is in constant competition we cannot support growth and research. If time and money are both poured into competition then we cannot use those resources for betterment. Perhaps competition could lead to a better discovery. Yet, a cooperation of great minds and expert talent would go much farther than the chance that competition could produce something more useful. 

So, yes, competition may have its own place. It may be beneficial at times. Yet, cooperation can always yeild beneficial and successful results. Cooperation will take projects further and faster that competing groups or individuals. Cooperation will also save on resources like time, money, and consumables, as multiple groups are not trying to do the same project. Our world depends on cooperation to run and cooperation will lead to the most successful and long-lasting accomplishments.
