There has been a long standing debate as to what drives success; competition or cooperation. This can be with anything you can think of, whether it is in the workplace, sporting events or even at a shopping center. There is no wrong opinion, but I will tell you what really drives success.

Competition drives success. You don't see tennis players cooperating to succed. You don't see Tiger Woods cooperating with Phil Mickelson to succedd on the golf course. Does Amazon cooperate to succedd with eBay? I think not. How about State Farm and Geicko? These companies do not care if each other succedd. In fact, they rather see each other fail along with their other competitors. The real driving factor in success is competition, plain and simple.

People by nature are selfish, and companies are made up of people. It is has always been and always will be about who is the best, who is the fastest and who can do it cheaper. Look at amazon for example. They used to guarantee next day shipping for a small fee. Now all you have to do is pay for a prime membership and you have next day shipping as a standard for everything you purchase. If the other retailers cannot compete with this, they will not survive. There have been more and more retailers meeting these same shipping standards. Companies lose business and some do not survive if they cannot find competitve ways to meet these high standards our world has become to expect. This intense competion is what is driving these flourishing companie's success. They do it better, faster and cheaper than everyone else. You don't see amazon cooperating with eBay, asking if they need help making deliveries. They don't ask them if they cannot find product and offer to help them supply their shelves. When there was a global shipping container shortage and small companies could not shipping product across the world, amazon did not offer small companies to use their shipping containers. Amazon bought more and more shipping containers, bought their own boats and hired their own crew. They did not seek to cooperate with their rivals. It is the pure competition that drives success.

There is nothing wrong with cooperation, it is just not what drives success. Sure, people cooperate to meet goals and aspirations. Nations cooperate and make treatys. But in the end, it is always about being the best. Competing will always bring out the best of people, companies and ideas.

To those who say in a complex world we need cooperation to produce long lasting significant success, I say show me an example. I just don't see it. Competition has always and will always will drive success. Everyone wants to be the best. No one wants to come in second place. Competition is what makes the world go round and drive success.

