                                  I really says that image and impressions have too much effect on people, because people blindly trust the advertisements before buying the things. Colourful products have too much of attractions to the people. Mostly pocket items like potato chips are having variety of flavours and the media side have too much of ads with models to cover people easily to buy the pocket items. But the plastic pocket foods are highly need to restricted. If these items are not in market means the seller have heavy loss on it. So the government never restrict these items for sure.

                                Exporting and importing the products to country to country have the business profits these days. So export from other country products are so impressive f0r local people. They work more to get the impressive product to regain the expensive things from market. 


                               Business and industry people were so clever on selling the products to people through market. Before the products reached in market they were publishing through media with biggest models. So the product were reached people so easily and they were so excited to see them and to buy the product.

                              Be aware on buying the colorful products. often do not blindly trust the ads before buy the needful products. Especially for kids.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
