     Many people have questions about how to obtain true happiness, and the answer isn't so simple. It is my belief that people are happier when they focus on their own personal goals rather than on the happiness of others. If you are sucessful in achieving your goals (even if, say, your goal is to make others happy) this will have a spiraling effect on the rest of your life. For example, someone who sets a goal for a promotion at work (even if the have to wait years to get it) will be much happier once they get it, instead of seeing another co-worker getting that same promotion instead. But it doesn't even have to be a very complicated/hard to achieve goal that makes you happy. 

     A small goal, like finding twenty minutes to read a good book every night, can also give you pleasure. In fact, it's often the smaller goals in which we derive the most satisfaction from. Consider how happy you might be after you've had a good meal on an empty stomach. So you can see, it doesn't have to be an overly complicated task or accomplishment to get you thinking positively. 

     But what about the happiness of other? Can't the happiness of others also make you happy? It can - especially if the happiness is coming from someone you care about a great deal. But every person is different and there are different factors that have to be taken into account when you rely on others to find happiness. What if the people in your life aren't happy? Should you not be happy as well? What if they are happy, but they don't share any of their happiness with you (like withholding the things that bring them joy)? It is also true that many might get jealous at other people's happiness, if they themselves are not happy. This might even cause them to feel even worse about their predicaments.

Whatever the case, while others in your life can make you happy, it's best not to try to leech off their happiness for your own benefit. It is also important to remember to set acheivable goals, and maybe find an appreciation for the little things in life - like a good book or a warm meal. Then, I believe, you will truly find happiness.   
