It seems as if every feneration wants to look down on previous generations. However, when one takes a closer look, it appears as though the past aand future may be more similar than many realize. There has been a lot of criticism that today's young adults and youth are more materialistic than ever. However, many examples of contradicting examples can be found throughout history, and modern society should not be criticized any more for its perceived materialism than any other prior generation.

If one researches ancient Pharaohs from thousands of years ago you would find a culture centered around beauty and materialism. In fact, this opulence was so important to them that the affluent were buried in huge tombs filled with gold and jewels so that they could take them to the afterlife with them. Even their "coofins" were often decorated with more jewels than the average young person today will see throughout their entire lives!

A darker chapter in society's fascination with materialism was the America's early history of slavery. Millions of Americans judged a person's life on not only what they owned, but how many PEOPLE they owned. While their "property" lived in horrible conditions like cattle, owners and their families lived life of luxury. Everything had to be of the highest quality, and exceptions were not only unacceptable, they were often punishable. There was much less focus on being a good person; instead, the main test of a person's success was how much wealth they coul accumulate.

Not only is today's society not any more materialistic than past, but an argument could be made that this is cuurently the most ethical society of the U.S. There is more of a focus on minority and gender equality, more concern about fellow global citizens, and more focus on protecting the Earth for future generations. This trend of decreasing self-absorption is the opposite of materialism, and is much needed for a better world. If older generations think that THIS is extreme materialism, they should really take the time to look inward.s
