Human kind has always been confronted with a fundamental challenge of discerning appearance from reality. Plato was one of the first to characterize this dilemna in his cave allegory. Essentially, he proposed that one's individual perspective or observance of reality was inherently flawed because it only contained a partial observation of reality. As humans we continually process our environment and form impressions of what we believe is true; however, our impressions are not always correct. We tend to believe that our perceptions are accurate and this makes deceptive advertisements especially problematic.

Our modern world is full of messaging of various types. Politics, product advertising, social movements and entertainment are just a few examples of this. Because we experience the world by processing the messaging all around us, we necessarily integrate this cacophony as best we can into what we perceive as reality. If this cloud of messages contain manufactured truths or deceptive arguments, it can have an undue influence on people and cause them to have an increasingly divergent perception of truth. In reference to Plato, they are staring too closely at the flame and not considering any flaws in their perception of reality.

An example of this is how the mainstream media reports crime stories. Often, certain details about a crime are omitted or emphasized to further a particular political viewpoint. In Ohio a 10 year old girl was tragically raped by an older man. This story was repeated by the media because the Roe v Wade reversal caused the girl to travel toMissouri to have an abortion. It was reported that she was "forced" to do so because the new laws would not allow her to obtain one in Ohio. In actuality, it was later reported that it was a voluntary decision - Ohio has medical exemptions that would have allowed her to obtain treatment there.  The topic of Roe v Wade is such a hot discussion point, that it was better to focus on aspects of the story that were not accurate. As a layperson consuming the story, it would be easy to believe what was being reported instead of fact checking the argument.

In contrast, our hyper-polarity that now exists has bred a great deal of skepticism amongst our population. The constant flow of opposing "facts" and the nearly opposite views of reality in broadcast media has forced people to question a lot of what they hear. One would think this could be a healthy response to deceptive reporting/advertising; however, many individuals have become very siloed in their sources of information. If a person gets all of their news from similar sources that are aligned with their world view, they can enter an echo chamber that only perpetuates and amplifies a distorted reality.

In conclusion, our modern world is rife with digital messaging that is designed to sway and influence our perceptions of reality. It has an unduly negative effect on our mental health and our ability to perceive truth from a more neutral viewpoint. Politics has infused itself into nearly all aspects of our lives and with it, a prescribed view of what reality is and how we should respond to it. In order to break free of this doldrum-inspired hypnosis, we should seek out viewpoint and arguments from those we disagree with. Only by rationalizing our own view of reality and comparing it to the views of others can we hope to exit our "cave" and find a more enlightened view of truth.
