We all love to spend our hard earned money the way we see fit, weather that be by purchasing a new gaming console, a few T-shirts, or a watch, we all just want to buy the things we love. But should you? We have all become cogs in a large machine, we buy, we consume, and buy again. The cycle never ends, but why should it? We must understand what truly makes us happy, if buying a new ring only brings but a moment of joy, should you be criticised for this? If only it were simpler, but in this world nothing  is truly simple under the hood, especially when you start asking more and more questions.

Let's bring Mike into this imaginary world, Mike enjoys spending his collecting baseball cards, in fact he has a large collection of them in a glass case back at home. He is happy seeing them all and even more so when he can add more to his collection. Should we criticize him for this? Is this a horrible deed that deems such action or is he just a man who loves to collect cards because it makes him truly happy? The origins of Mike's love for baseball cards was because of his father. His father used to gift him a array of cards before he passed away. The collection of these cards for Mike is more that just a simple buy, consume, buy mentality. He wants to pay homage to his loving father and this is his way of doing so. 

Understandably, many would take issue with this saying that this story is not everyones. This is ture, there are many who do have such a mentality that is sickening, that bring one down both financially and mentally. But that also means not eveyone falls to such a mentality. Just like Mike everyone has their likes and dislikes which govern their buying habits and just like with anything else it can sour or brighten the buyers overall mood and outlook on life. 

Instead of citicizing being materialistic, we should touch on how some are living just fine and thriving in this kind of world. We can all agree that consuming more than you can buy is a horrible habit, but to those who know how to manage themselves, they can live hapily collecting their baseball cards or fun little tinkets that one may enjoy. 


