The pursuit of happiness can be a result of two approaches. One approach is to seek happiness through the achievements of one self. The other approach is to achieve happiness by being a servant to others. 
In this critique, the argument will be made that service to others is a longer approach towards sustained happiness than just seeking it as a lone individual.  The three factors supporting the argument is that humans need affirmation, humans need to develop human connections, and humans are rewarded for sharing knowledge. 

Affirmation is awarded to each human being at the youngest of ages. One of the most profilic achievements is for a child to lift their head up and to sit up on their own. Even potty training itself is an experience. That is why kids get particpation trophies and certificates for milestones. Children have been conditioned that an audience is needed to share the moment of happiness. This is why social media has been compared to a drug with a sense of addition. 

Human connections drive people towards success. Promotions are more likely to occur for team players than for solo players in all professional settings. Even in schooling, group work is vital towards a student's learning plan.  Throughout sports, teamwork and teamplay is emphasized through all facets of strategy. 

Although the journey for acquring knowledge is mostly solitary, where most people find success is why they take the critical knowledge and applied it towards the benefit of others. That is what drives innovation and social development. That is when professional lives are built around the pursuit of people management. All degrees are focused on project management and leadership. 

These three pillars explain that most happiness is achieved through the journey of reaching milestones while helping and being with others versus solitary acehivements. Although some individuals are happy in solitude, most are happy when they are supported through a tight knit social circle or be a leader of infouence. 
