         To understand if one is truly "happy", we must first define how happiness is measured. Arguably, happiness looks different and feels different to everyone. Something that may bring you overwhelming joy and elation may have no effect on a different individual. In order to aid in other peoples happiness you need to know if you are happy first. The only way to truly measure if one is happy, is to look at their personal goals and see if they have achieved them. True happiness is obtained when you set goals for yourself, and you reach those goals. 
         Alternatively, others have argued that happiness is found during the attempt to make others happy. This may help you achieve temporary happiness, or the general feeling of happiness for a short moment, but this will not last. You cannot feel content with your own self and life when you have spent all of your time trying to improve others. Additionally, you may not have the ability to aid in others happiness if you are not truly happy with yourself first. For example, if a friend wants your help raising money for homeless veterans, but you are having financial strain and decide to help her anyways, would this bring you happiness? We know for certain this action would make your friend happy, which the opposition would argue should make you happy as well. However, this would only cause further financial strain on your life and negatively impact you, not allowing you to experience this second hand happiness you should feel for your friend. Now imagine this situation in reverse. You are financially stable, you have reached many of your personal goals, you are extremely happy with your current situation in life. Your friend then approaches you with a request for a donation towards the homeless veterans, you happily oblige which makes you feel even better because it did not cause you any personal strain, and it helped your friend.
        The phrase we have heard many times is "you cannot help others if you cannot help yourself". If you have ever rode on an airplane, you are probably familiar with the flight attendents safety instructions - you are instructed to put on your own air mask in case of an emergency before putting on anyone elses mask for them. This goes for your life as well, you need to be happy with yourself before you can truly be happy for others. If you are trying to pour out of an empty cup, you both lose. If you want to truly be happy, you need to set some goals for yourself and focus on your own achievements before you can help others reach theirs. 
