What you see is what you get. Right? Wrong. The perceptions that are given all around us leave us with a society that believes that they need to be a certain way in order to fit into the norm. Adverts, social media and the aesthetics have long since reigned in importance over quality. This is not a new thought-- we have been and are influenced by the way things appear over what they actually contribute. Being that we are a community of easily influenced individuals we tend to not even notice that these things are being used as tactics against us. 

We as a society have let big corporations and the 1% flash colors and big words to us to let us know: hey, unless you purchase this item, you will forever be uncool, unwanted and rejected. Falling into this trap has caused fast fashion to overpower quality clothing, nutritious foods to fall to the wayside of mystery meat nuggest and cold fries. As the years pass on we are able to see how quality has diminished to the labels of "high end". 

Think about how majority of the fast food industry is color coded: mostly red--beacuse at some point it was said that the color red will cause people to be hungrier and draw the crowd to the establishments. This is not the only case in which this has been heard of. The influence things have to be appealing to the eye in order to be purchased is a tale as old as time. Think about the half naked celebrities selling us burgers while washing a car. What that has to do with food, I will never know. 

I believe as a member of this world-- that we have been influenced by the flashy BUY NOW signs and the appeal to be more like our favorite celebrities. Which, let's be honest-- they just want to be like us. True normal. The things that we experience in order to sway our purchasing and opinions is an unfortuante reality. However, knowing that it is a very real thing-- maybe taking an extra look at something before purchasing it and asking yourself--"Do I really need this or do I just really like the box?" might be a good place to start. Seeing is not always believing.
