I believe that "happiness" as an idea is abstract. This idea means different things to different people. Much like "love", "happiness" can mean a myriad of different things. I can only answer to what happiness means to me. For me personally, happiness comes from both focusing on myself, my family, my goals and accomplishing them-- as well as, helping and focusing on others. I've made a career out of customer service for 15 years and because of this I get the benefits of both of these things. My  profession allows me to help others, focus on others's needs and in doing so successfully I am able to accomplish my own goals. 

As I stated earlier, happiness means different things to different people. One person may find happiness in the military or being part of a team. Another person would fail miserably in that situtation and succumb to depression and possibly suicidal ideation. 

I like John Lennon's quote on "happiness". When he was a child in grade school his teacher asked him what he wanted to be when he grew up. He responded, "happy." The teacher told him that he misunderstood the assignment and he replied that she misunderstood life. 

But what constitutes as happy? Is happiness in the money that we make? Is happiness in the clothes that we wear? Is happiness in the types of homes we have, cars we drive, and possessions we attain? Is happiness having love? Is happiness family? Is happiness being selfless. Is happiness even a thing that can be truly measured?

As someone who suffers from mental health and has only been in treatment for the last 6 years my version or reality of happiness has changed significantly. While I was ill  my version of happiness was dependent upon which cycle of my bipolar depression I was experiencing. When I was depressed, "happiness" would've meant sleeping all day. Not focusing on anything or anyone. At some points happiness would've been no longer existing in the world. When manic, my version of happiness was waking up every more. It was the rush of being creative, spending time with family, being on the go. Fast, fast, fast!

I think those people who find their happiness focusing on other are people who've experienced abuse and trauma in their lives. This isn't to say that I don't think untraumatized people are unable to care for others but, I believe traumatized people focus their happiness on this more because they know what it is like to have no one concerned about their happiness, saftey, and general wellbeing. For this reason they tend to pour all of their energy into others and thus gain happiness from this. Trauma and abuse is definitely a deciding factor on how people define happiness. 

In the prompt it states, "Are people more likely to be happy if they focused on their person goals or on the happiness of others?" I feel this is really a catch 22. A junkie is happy when they get their dope. And they will get that by whatever means necessary. So would this be focusing on themselves and their goals? Or would it be focusing on someone else's because they're buy off of a dealer and helping them to acheieve their goals. It's all very convoluted. 

In order to answer this question with any certainty the prompt would need to define what the word "happiness" actually means. Again, it's a vague and broad topic. 
