While it's unproblematic to assume that most people desire happiness in their lives, what isn't so clearcut is how we may attain happiness. How best and by which path is happiness best cultivated? There are two common answers to this question. The first claims that happiness is best developed externally, through charitable work, service to others, or to the environment. In short, this argument maintains that in striving to make the world a better place, we will improve our own sense of personal well-being. The second answer tells us that happiness is found from within.  By tending to our own development, cultivating and pursuing our passions and aspirations, and by dedication to being the best possible version of our self, that happiness is sure to follow.

I believe that happiness is best found from this second path. The process of learning to understand our own identity, personality, and our strengths and weaknesses, is a process where we develop resilience, knowledge, passions, and aspirations. By focusing on our identity and personal goals, we develop critical ingredients for happiness, like self-knowledge and self-assurance. We learn to be comfortable with who we are, in our own skin, so to speak.

Many would argue that this approach comes off as selfish, self-centered, or even egocentric. This is certainly a danger, but not an inevitability. If one chooses to pursue only fame or financial profit in order to attain their own happiness at the expense of others, or by neglecting the needs of others, one falls into this trap. That is not true happiness and it's also immoral. But I would argue that if we truly wish to make the world a better place and to develop meaningful relationships, or to help others, the best possible way to accomplish this would be to develop knowledge, pursue our passions, and put ourselves in personal and professional positions that are meaningful for us. If we choose to neglect our personal development and simply strive to find our happiness outside of ourselves, we'll be neglecting one of the most important pieces of the puzzle, in finding true happiness.

In conclusion, happiness begins with our dedication to our own development. In order to help others and form meaningful relationships, we must first know ourselves and be comfortable and content, with our identity. Happiness is best developed from inward, self-oriented work, but when we find it, this will only make us better equipped to add to the happiness of those around us, and to further develop our own sense of satisfaction with our selves and our lives.
