Materialism is definitely a hot topic subject that is both seen as a curse and simultaneously practiced with absolute irreverence. Even popular culture references such thoughts, as seen in the movie-musical the Fiddler on the Roof when the main character responds to a character's statement that 'Money is the world's curse,' with "Then may God smite me with it, and may I never recover." We see many people suffer from fear of missing out (sometimes called FOMO), and many others lack what they want or need altogether.

While some people have been driven into materialistic behaviors, many others have not and modern society should not be criticised for embodying something that has existed for years. People have always had the desire to acquire things - artwork, books, wealth - but in the past, that was kept to certain social strata. In the modern era, since the Industrial Revolution, a shift has happened to permit more people to actually own things and own many things, at that. While this mindset of possessing so many things can promote exhaustion and desperation to have everything, when approached with more moderation it is simply a mark of the times. The question one has to ask is whether or not having more people own more things is better or worse than having a handful of people own everything.

One can find many people who are avid collectors of what brings them joy, and also people who take pleasure in a minimalistic lifestyle. It is all counted by a great deal of personal choice and desire, and condemning a society as a whole for an aspect that some take to an extreme is hardly fair. Some are materialistic, some are not. In fact, with the recent times, many people have shifted into minimalism or decluttering their lives. See Maria Kondo's example in this in her popular Netflix show. If something doesn't bring you joy, get rid of it.

Personally, I am an avid collector of certain types of craft projects and for a while, I was very indiscriminate about my purchases, particularly in the beginning phases of the 'collecting' and 'hoarding', but when the fear of missing out dissipated, I was able to resell products that I no longer loved and discover my personal tastes so that now I only get what I love and what I can finish without stress, which is a far more healthy take on any sort of hobby or collection.

While materialism can be taken to an extreme and that can certainly be criticised on an individual basis, one cannot truly fault the modern society as materialistic. The upper class has always owned and possessed much, and in the modern ages more people can own plenty as well, rather leveling what was formerly an uneven playing field. People should not condemn people for finding what joy they can in life, especially when it doesn't hurt anyone else.
