Our wants and desires are formed from the surroundings we grow in, and what could materialism be, if not a natural desire that arises under capitalism? We live in a global marketplace, with products the world-over advertised to us, every moment of every day. The successes of our peers are flashed to us on social media, along with the secrets of our proposed mentors and betters--likely for a subscription. As we work or work to find work, we are inundated with what success looks like, how to achieve it, and how to present it. Under these conditions, I don't see how materialism could be expected to be a rare behavior.

From people of poverty to people of midlding means, the images of success are well-known. From fashion, to food, to transportation, to locations--society knows the look of success. This can be a motivating force to get those who are struggling to work harder. This says nothing of whether that it is a positive force--I can certainly imagine it to be a negative one. It certainly could be that people who can only feel succesful if they have the nicest car, the most luxurious house may find themselves forever chasing that dream, or empty when they find it. However, it's reasonable for people to imitate that behavior.

If it's reasonable for modern society to be materialistic, then mere criticism of that will likely not yield anything. Instead of saying that society should not praise these lavish things, it should give voice to what should be praised--whatever that may be. If the argument is that materialism is cold and impersonal, then perhaps more time and energy should be spent pushing for community-building. Perhaps, instead of the very granular feel-good stories, focus should be given towards how local communities have and can help others within it. If it's the realism that's being criticized--that not all can afford the finest things, then perhaps, more effort should be given towards showing what a more modest living can look like and how it can be secure--perhaps in the way of financial advice being given more for the common person, or placing more value in do-it-yourself efforts and crafstmanship.

If we continue on the path that we are on, materialism will not disappear. As the divide between rich and poor increases, and we find more and more ways to compare ourselves to others and view those comparisons at every moment of every day, we will find ourselves to be a more materialistic society. Unless we are given something else to strive for and some other way of valuing ourselves and our communities, we will go with what we are given, and what we find familiar. While it may certainly be difficult to reshape society in the way of re-focusing how we value ourselves and each other, we may find it a task less daunting than reshaping the current economic system of the world at-large.
