The pursuit of happiness probably cannot be defined the same way for each person -- some people may find personal fulfillment in their own dreams and goals, while others find themselves more elated by focusing on the enrichment of humanity at large. It depends upon the individual, but one can clearly state that if someone is lucky enough to have a clear and defined vision of their own goals, wants, and desires, there is definitely personal happiness to be found in the pursuit and achievement of those personal goals.

Having clearly defined dreams and goals for oneself can be a challenge in and of itself, but for the person who has them, they provide life intrinsically with both meaning and structure. Goals are not accomplished all at once; dreams are not made reality within the span of a day; instead, breaking down desires and accomplishments into smaller steps provides a definitive schedule, a predictability, a sense of personal meaning, and an escalating sense of accomplishment and self esteem. All of this can provide great personal happiness -- and with each step of each goal, that happiness can increase like compounding interest on a savings account.

Personal goals can be wide and varied -- different people value different lives and desire different results. One person may long for a fulfilling personal life through having a child and becoming a parent; another might wish to make a living through their art; a third may desire to go to medical school and become a doctor, while a fourth may be after a promotion to partner at their firm where they have already made visible and remarkable accomplishments in their career.

What these goals have in common is that they are not accomplished all at once; rather, they are accomplished in bits and pieces, by attending classes or stacking up legal briefs and courtroom wins, by painting canvases or writing songs or displaying sculptures, by pursuing a meaningful relationship with a future co-parent or perhaps by conceiving or adopting on one's own. 

In all these situations, no matter the person's dream for themselve, it's not the final accomplishment of the large goal that provides the most dividends on happiness -- it is the structure and sense of accomplishment provided by breaking those dreams down into smaller parts and following the journey and roadmap that they provide.

This means that if one doesn't have clearly defined desires, dreams, or goals, happiness can be less attainable, less clearly defined, and more mysterious and ephemeral. Because goal setting and self-knowledge is so vital to this pursuit of happiness, perhaps one could suggest that teaching children early in their education to identify their personal values and desires is important; perhaps goal setting should be an important part of early education and later happiness. Perhaps focus is also a meaningful education pursuit that should be integrated into education earlier and more often.

In conclusion, focusing on ones own dreams and goals can provide a clear roadmap to happiness;  clear steps, hard work, and a slow but surely escalating sense of accomplishments can provide lasting and important personal happiness; but this depends entirely upon one knowing what one wants from their life and clearly defining their goals before they can begin. While some may find more fulfillment in serving humanity rather than their own desires, one can clearly argue that personal goals provide a more immediately defined and obvious roadmap to happiness that can be accessible to anyone, no matter their personal priorities, beliefs, dreams, or goals.
