I almost ruined my marriage by pursuing my own happiness. Not in the way many people ruin their marriages - looking for pleasure outside of their spouse. No, for me it was much simpler than that. On May 21, 2010, I looked my beautiful bride in the eyes and made vows to her. I told her "I do." The truth is, I had no clue what I was doing. I had no clue what love is.

People will be much happier if they are able to set their minds on the happiness of others rather than on their own happiness. The reason is simple - when you are focused on being happy you will often find yourself disappointed. Rather than discussing the "big moments" in life, I am going to focus on the small moments - the every-day thoughts that people deal with. That is where the true battle for happiness lies. You see, most moments of life do not consist of feeling euphoric (or even pleasant for that matter). What is in a rainy day to make one happy? What is in a delayed football game to make one happy? A flat tire? Sinus pressure? A whiny child? Nothing. When one focuses on being happy, in having conditions favorable to their liking, they will often find that they are not happy. On the other hand, if one is focused on the happiness of others then one can overlook the inconveniences of life. They will come, but neither their presence nor absence determines whether or not you are achieving your goal. 

This principle is similar to ideas found within Buddhism, which claims that suffering is caused by unfulfilled desires. How does one end this suffering? The answer is to end your desires. If you are not desiring comfort, then it will not matter whether you are uncomfortable. If you are desiring a romantic relationship, then it will not matter whether you are single. On the other hand, if you are focused on your singleness (and are not having good luck finding someone), then you will only continue to grow in unhappiness. So one key to happiness is not so much that you are focused on others, but it is that you are not focused on yourself.

Now to my marriage. I thought that I loved my bride, but the truth is, I was mostly in love with myself. I was not focused on how much I could fulfill her- I was focused on how much she could fulfill me. I made her a source of my own happiness and emotional fulfillment. And I was often disappointed. This isn't because she did something wrong - it is because she could not live up to all of my expectations and desires all the time. No one can do that for another person. Unfortunately, it took me years to come to an awakening, and I spent a lot of time brooding in insecurity and bitterness at the woman I thought I loved. She was not the problem - I was. Why? Because I was focused on finding my own fulfillment. Thankfully, I had a moment of spiritual clarity and realized how twisted and toxic I was becoming. I was expecting my wife to fulfill me, but came to realize that marriage is not made of two unfulfilled people who need each other. It is made of two fulfilled people coming together. Once I removed self-fulfillment from the throne of my mind, my marriage got much better. No longer was I looking for things my wife was doing wrong - I was simply enjoying the small moments. No longer was I doing "nice things" for her to affirm me, I was doing them simply for her. No longer did I wallow in self-pity at any perceived slight, but I was at peace in my mind. I finally learned what love is. While it is an immensely complex thing to define, I will put it this way: love is caring for someone else with no strings attached. 

Sure, someone could make an argument that self-seeking or pleasure or even achieving one's goals leads to happiness. But what if those goals or plans do not work out? Then will be left feeling unhappy and unfulfilled; however, if you are not focused on your own happiness, then ironically, you will can yourself happy most of the time. 
