Does the way people are perceived have too much effect on the world? Let's face it, in today's society looks seem to be everything. Everywhere you turn there are ads and marketing campaigns for every insecurity we could have. Everything from hair dye to plastic surgery is thrown in our faces day in and day out.

When you go into a grocery store to grab toothpaste and can't help but notice a pack of "instant white smile" with an obviously edited photo of unnaturally white teeth it makes you start thinking, "Would I be happier if I looked like this? Do I really need this?". You pick it up thinking what's the harm in trying it. You head over to the grocery aisle and notice next to your favorite popcorn are rice cakes and fad diet foods and you start wondering "Do I need to lose weight? Would I be more liked if I lost some weight?" So you pick that up because what's the harm in trading some snacks for rice cakes. Finally you make it to your car, you put everything in and turn the car and radio on. A paid actor comes on talking about how great they look with their lip fillers from Dr. So and So. You get home and everything in, you see a TV commercial for the next election featuring Donald Trump who wearing fake hair and spray tanning himself in excess.

Think to yourself back to a time when you were a child. You dressed how you wanted without a care in the world. Your hair could be messy, you could have spinach in your teeth, dirt under your nails, and you didn't give one single fuck about how you looked just what adventure you were going on. Now that you're older, every time you turn on the tv, your phone, or drive down the road you're having messages tossed at you that your natural self isn't good enough. That if you change everything about yourself you'll finally be happy. That is until the next trend comes along.

Are our looks really that important that we need to go that far with it? Weren't we happier when we were children and just comfortable in our own skin? If you were to ask me if I thought the way people looked had too much impact on the world, I would say yes without a doubt. We're all chasing this unobtainable goal of looking a certain way that isn't even human anymore.
