Materialism might be the thing people love to bash in our society.  People think we are way too materialistic and we should be happier with less.  Maybe we do get too invested in wanting more than we can afford at times, but that does not mean modern society's love of materialism is bad.  Our economy and our drive is centered around obtaining objects to make our lives worth living.  If we were not materialistic beings, we would not have nearly the advances that we consider important to our well being.  

Human beings are naturally materialistic beings.  We require the necessities to get through the day by day for our physical health, but we require material objects for our mental health.  Imagine if we only had food, water, and shelter.  Imagine a shelter with bare walls and no art to view.  Even the cave men made art on the walls and realized the need to have distractions.  Modern man has many distractions, like television, electronic devices, or books, but it is all so that we can have some joy in our lives and increase our mental health.  

Materialism also means we enjoy having luxury items that go beyond the need for entertainment or a distraction to occupy our minds.  We are not really buying a Gucci bag to hang on a wall as art.  It is a status symbol.  These kinds of luxuries make people strive to work hard.  People want a trophy that illustrates their accomplishments.  This is important for society to function because it makes us strive to be better.  It pushes us to innovation and success.  People need to have a goal that pushes them, and the ability to afford more material objects is the goal of many innovators.  

Some people will say being materialistic is a bad thing.  They will say that being materialistic is contrary to the goal of cooperation and this leads to conflicts.  Wars are fought over resources like oil so that we can fill the tanks of our cars and burn fuel for our factories that are pushing out items for us to purchase.  This might be true and it is a darker side to materialism.  However, it does not negate the fact that materialism is what makes man strive to be successful as well.  

Modern society's love of material objects can be seen as being both good and bad.  We might fight wars because of our materialistic ways which is a negative part of materialism.  But, the need to have a driver for innovation and success is important to making us better, and that driver is the human capacity to enjoy being materialistic. 
