Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others? People have set for themselves priorities. It could be either achievement in their personal life or achievement for the organization. In both the aspect, reward is provided and we feel happy. There is one more thing that brings happiness though we are not provided any reward for the same.That is helping or assisting other and seeing them get happy which brings happiness from within. That is inner peace that we call. Most of the people are so busy in this world that they have forgotten to be happy or celebrate happiness with others. They have become self centric.

People are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals. Every human being likes to celebrate success by being happy when they achieve the personal goals they would have set for themselves. It is a great feeling reaching on top of the world. It cannot be written in words as we will not experience the same until we have the same kind of feeling. As likely said, success is defind as an art of completing a work and then telling to self  that this work could not have been done better than this. That is success and in turn we get happy. Happiness and personal goals go hand in hand as goals are set in a way that it has some value when achieved and we feel happy when achieved. Small targets are usually exempted from such examples. So it is bound that when a person achieves what they would have set, they tend to get delighted in view of happiness. 

People are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others. There are other set of people in this planet wo are focused on achieving successfor the sake of others and when they are happy they feel happy. These set of people have their own goals and moto in life. They are governed by themselves to achieve something for others not for themselves. It is kind of charity that they are doing. They feel relieved from doing so. Their happiness lies in the happiness of others. They are focused people with altogether different attitude. Goals are pre-determined for these people. Happiness of others is a big task and not all people are best suited for the goal.

To conclude the same we as humans have set different goals in our life. We have to adhere to those gaols as they are the thing which are driving us forward day in and out. We have to be clear in our thoughts what could bring us happiness it is because when we get happiness we tend to bring out great results. So we leave that to respective people what brings them the real happiness. 
