Materialism is a very, very broad term that covers an array of behaviors, values, and societal pressures. It's easy to criticize the individual 'materialist', and sometimes warranted. After all, when there are people living in the cars or on the streets, what good does it do society to have a billionaire buying their third mansion? However, it's much more fascinating to look at it from a wider lens- see the trees for the forest, if you will. Rather than targeting individuals for caring about material goods, society as a whole must change. 

The concept of materialism is woven into our society's fabric, especially in the United States of America. Markers of social standing have shifted away from community ties and altruism, and towards a consumerist view involving brands and shows of wealth. Imagine a successful person, if you will. Where do they live? Who are they surrounded by? What signifiers of success do they show?

Do they live in a small home with the people they love, spending their free time helping their neighbors and volunteering? Or do they live in a gigantic mansion, surrounded by wealthy peers, spending their free time hosting parties on a yacht? Do they drive a well-maintained car from the late 2000's, or do they drive a Lamborghini? 

This preconception of success is what should be criticized. Success should not be measured by what items you possess and how much money you spent to get them, as is the materialistic view. If expensive cars and a massive house will make someone happy, that's perfectly normal in a society that bombards us with that image. However, that should not be the only viewpoint, and certainly not the default. Materialism is not required for happiness, and there should be more support and opportunities for people to achieve that happiness in the ways they find meaningful. 

For some, this could mean staying home to take care of their family. For others, it could mean running a small business where they can create things. Still others might want to travel the world, or settle down with a partner, or live sustainably off the grid. None of these are materialistic wants, and all of them are devalued as life goals in a society that praises materialism at all costs.

Modern society should indeed be criticized for an excess of materialism. Success is not determined by what brand of car or cell phone someone has. However, people themselves cannot be faulted for falling in line with the societal pressure to always own more and newer things. The world needs more examples of people living happily without constantly chasing the newest, shiniest purchases.
