  I believe that impressions and appearances do have way too much of an effect on people  but yet, I don't think it is a persons fault rather how humans are designed in general and advertisers know this and have taken avantage of it since the beginning. Humans are designed to survive and thrive and how we have always done this was by recreating what we see. Some smart caveman came up with the idea of fire and the rest of us copied it which helped us survive, another smart man came up with electricity the rest copied and further excelled mankind into the future. 
  As I said though advertiser, businessmen, and politicans all know this fact about mankind so they take advantage of that to sell whatever it is that they're trying to sell whether it's themself or a product. They know if they make a package appear shiny, and perfect that people will flock to buy it. People do this for multiple reasons some being to just fit in with the majority, or some do it to be the first on a new trend, and then sometimes it becomes so engrained in society that people have no choice but to join as in cell phones or the internet. However, the down side to this isn't looked at much and there are a lot. It can create a lot of waste at the end of the day with mass production, and then at the end of a trend when people throw the product away. Also it can create unhappiness in others who can afford to join in, or disphoria in others who become dissatisfied with what they already have because they don't have the latest and greatest thing or body. 
  At the end of the day it is what fuels big corporations, government, and Hollywood. The dream that all people dare to dream but few achieve. Whether it's the perfect body, voice, or the newest technoligical advance people continue to make themselves sick to have it. The problem with it isn't the impressionable but the people who take advantage of it being there. It's all the Donald Trumps that lie, twist and manuvere their way into systems who are suppose to stay clean of these things. Who manipulate people to get what they want for whatever their purpose is but not for the greater good of mankind. It is the travesty of humans as in the way of a herd whose leader jumps them off a cliff to exinctition. 
