Materialism, or the drive to have more, is at the heart of many of the social ills in contemporary America. Income inequality, food insecurity, housing shortages, even things like discimination and a tendency toward violence, all stem from materialism. In a society where the focus was not on acquiring more "stuff" but instead was on pursuing happiness, justice, and social stability, people would generally be happier. That said, it is unlikely to work in our modern society because materialism is so ingrained in our culture now. 

An example I think of regarding materialism is the way I used to feel as a child. I didn't have much - most afternoons in the summers were spent outside playing in the dirt, fighting battles with sticks, or exploring the woods behind the house or reading books from the library. Yet, when I reflect on that period, I realize I was probably happiest. I wasn't trying to do more to get more; I was simply living in the moment, content with my imagination and all the possibilities I could create. Now, I find I am too tired to read most days, and I struggle to have a lot of enthusiasm for anything. The biggest change? Materialism. The need to pay bills, to keep up, to stay ahead. It doesn't help that prices are all increasing, and it's nearly impossible to get by these days. I'm not even trying to be better than anyone. I just need money to survive. 

So while we know that materialism is not ideal, and we talk a lot about social media and its influence on making us more materialistic, we continue to pursue it. Why is that? We are slowly destroying the planet, and we are taking natural resources to the point of no return. It's because we have to make more factories and create space for more distribution centers to produce and distribute more goods. Look at the current inflation problem. We came out of a global pandemic - and instead of learning from it or looking for ways to work together to improve healthcare equity, we instead went right into spending more than ever. It was a rush to get back into stores, to travel again, to do more and have more, because we'd sacrified for two years. However, in that time, most of us were able to build more valuable relationships with loved ones - even if it was remote. We couldn't put material goods ahead of each other's well-being, and for the holidays, we were often only seeing each other online. So it was a time to reflect on what mattered. What we discovered is that, for Americans and many Westerners, what matters is stuff. We're only about a year out from large-scale vaccination efforts - and it feels like everyone forgot about COVID. It's still spreading, but masks are rarely seen. We didn't learn; instead, we fell back into the trap, when we had a chance to listen to nature or God or whatever force someone believes in who was telling us to step back. Breathe. Live in the moment again. 

I think part of the reason for it is that many of us did. And we didn't like what we saw. We realized we'd lost a part of ourselves. It had become harder to find that innocence of childhood. We lived in the moment, and we often found we didn't like ourselves or the moment. Without the churn and drive to produce, consume, and repeat, we didn't know what there was for us. One could argue that this is evidence we, as humans, are inherently materialistic, but we've had periods in history that demonstrate otherwise. There have been two world wars, the great Depression, and periods of turmoil in human history where we came together as one. It hasn't even been that long - Americans were like that following 9/11. But somewhere along the way, we lost it all and now there's little left but stuff. It comforts us when we can't find relationships with others. It makes us feel a spark of joy when we don't know what sparks it otherwise. Those things help us define ourselves, and without them, we can't find an identity anymore. 

So it's a tough call whether we should be criticized. It's probably the downfall of humanity. If we don't get away from materialism at least a little, climate change will likely kill us anyway. But it may be too late, and can we criticize people for finding themselves caught up in the nature of our society as a whole? It's a bit of a chicken and egg debate, I guess. Did we push ourselves to become so materialistic that it's almost hopeless, or did we succumb to materialism because the systems that control us (government, banks, corporations, etc.) make it impossible to thrive otherwise. Perhaps we shouldn't blame individuals for buying into materialism. If those objects give them peace in a broken world, can be be surprised? One person can't change the machine, and until the banks and corporations that run things are given less power, we can give in and become consumers - or we can give up and leave society altogether. However, behind us will remain an orgy of consumerism and greed. 

I believe, in the end, we should criticize society, but we may have to go further and find the root of it. Somewhere along the way, we lost a large part of what it is to be human, and now the only thing that fills the hole are goods and items. Our society is too materialistic, but we didn't get here overnight and we didn't get here alone. Being critical is fine, but to really drive change, we need to find the root cause and destroy it. If it's not too late for us all. 

(I don't really know what else to say, because I feel like I'm rambling. I'm not sure if I'm supposed to keep typing, though. On the plus side, I need to work on a writing project myself, and if I can write 1000 words in 20 minutes, I should really consider delaying it and just write freely like I was asked to during this exercise. Please don't take points off for the random add-on commentary; I just don't want to be penalized for doing nothing for the last 8 minutes.)

(Side note two so I don't get told I failed for not writing more. I think the root cause is technology - especially social media. I think the whole keeping up with the Joneses just was exacerbated by seeing everyone curate their lives to look amazing on social media. So now it feels like you have to buy more and be more to be enough. It's always been hard because someone will have a better house or a nicer car or fancier clothes or more luxurious vacations. But to some degree, you didn't have to be surrounded by that all the time, and it was usually only a couple of people. Now it feels like a competition to have the best Instagram photos and the most exciting tweets and Facebook profiles and YouTube videos and TikToks. And you can't do that from home with some dirt or a stick. People aren't going to enjoy your social media if you're online sharing videos of you and friends battling imaginary dragons with sticks, but they'll definnitely be interested if you're attending some kind of major event with CGI dragons or whatnot. I don't really use social media anymore for this reason, but I do think it's a scary future. It reminds me of the Black Mirror episode, "Nose Dive," which is all about people needing to rank highest on social media. Taht's my nightmare, but I feel like we are pretty much there, aren't we? I mean, if you don't have a ton of social followers, are you even a person? - this is sarcasm, but it does feel like that's the mindset of many. Anyway, hopefully these extra side notes at least were entertaingin to read and wont work against me.)
