Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition? The easy answer is by competition as usually only one person can be at the top so that requires a person to do better than any other person. However, it's not always that simple. Sometimes, it's absolutely necessary to cooperate with other people before you reach the top. There's a certain level of strategy that is necessary in some scenarios that one must enact to be the best. This has been demonstrated in several popular reality show competitions that are on the air today.  Such shows include: Big Brother and Survivor. The main one I want to focus on is Big Brother on CBS.

Big Brother is a reality show where several houseguests all live in a house together with cameras and microphones following their every move. Competitions are played on a weekly basis where one houseguest is deemed the head of household. The head of household then nominates two houseguests for eviction. A power of veto competition is then played and if one of the nominated houseguests wins the competition, they can remove themselves from the block and someone else has to go up in their place. If someone wins that is not up for eviction, they can also pull someone off the block and the head of household has to nominate another houseguest to be up for eviction. Ultimately, the entire house votes out the chosen houseguest. Although only one person can win the grand prize, it's nearly impossible to get there on your own. You must form alliances to stay protected throughout the game. History on the show has shown that only those who are in strong, loyal alliances rise to the top. Being a lone wolf and relying solely on competition and not cooperation will get you sent home early. 

In a real world scenario, such as rising to the top of a company and becoming a CEO, it may be possible to rise to the top without cooperating a lot. If you were to work hard and be the best of the best and as long as you didn't have to be voted into your position, the only person you'd have to cooperate with is the person promoting you. So in this manner, I guess you could rise to the top on mostly competition alone. However, there would still be a tiny bit of cooperation necessary.

In conclusion, it mainly depends on the scenario if you can achieve success with either competition or cooperation. In my opinion, for most scenarios, it's necessary to cooperate even just a little. Even in extreme cases, like in a dictatorship, you have to cooperate with some to be able to rise to power. In the case of competition reality shows, one much form alliances and strong, loyal bonds to be able to come out on top. In the 20 some odd years these shows have been on air, I've never once seen one person win who relied solely on competition. Of course some used different ratios of competition and cooperation, but altogether no one did it with just competition alone. I do believe it's safe to say that pretty much all scenarios require cooperation, even if it's just a tiny bit. It's basically impossible to be at the top without greasing some wheels along the way.



