Given the design of our societal structure, it is almost natural to find ourselves drawn to material goods. There is a distinct primal essence to acquiring resources. Whether they are vital or not remains to be an entirely separate question in the matter. Our possessions have been a way of expressing our interests as well as our status. They can range from serious investments like a car to trivial indulgements. It is understandable that we are driven like minnow in the ocean towards and away from the behemoth marketing ploys by companies that surround us. Another element to add to the fray is spending our money is increasing, alongside stressful lives, which can lead us to get a spike of dopamine from such endeavors. Should we then criticize ourselves along with the great design of our civilized society for being materialistic in nature?

It is my belief that materialism leads to a hedonistic treadmill effect. There is a tug of war effect between dopamine, serotonin, and our own logic. We chase the thrill of the hunt, capture the item, and drag it home like a leopard up into a treetop to survey what we claimed. If we continue this train of thought, let us suppose the leopard has already eaten to fulfillment. It is possible this was purely for amusement's sake or development of skill. However, there's another potential answer; One that I feel bears mentioning with a heavy heart. The leopard may have experiencing distress or fear. Such emotions led it to stalk the creature to alleviate the hormones and adrenaline from such fear. 

At the root of hedonism is a plausible fear that our lives may be meaningless. This creates a void. We seek to fill such a void at the cost of the environment, health and happiness. This may seem counterproductive which is my very point. I think it is important to recognize the difference between purchasing something because it is truly useful or meaningful versus being swept away in a tidal wave of subliminal messages and fleeting euphoria. It is equally evident that such pursuit of chronic, cheap resources in particular can create miserable working conditions and poisonous elements such as water and air quality in regions heavily dedicated to such a task. This takes a vast toll on our ecosystem in the same way that dictating our worth has become ever more reliant upon what we own or wear or can afford to do for the sake of it. Luxuries have an expiration date in terms of lasting impact on the soul.

The quest for material items starts out innocently enough with vital purchases such as transportation, functionality devices, and basic needs to be met. Over the course of time, this procurement of resources begins to spread outwards like algae growing on top of a lake's surface. We're pulled towards "the light" of yet another product promising it represents our meaning in life along with a sense of thriving because we could afford it. Perhaps a good friend recommended something that calls out a siren song to our senses. This couples well with the likelihood that it is in our nature to be curious and explore. It could be said that society doesn't deserve criticism for chasing one more animal in the wild jungle. It is very understable that we are drawn to whatever produces a good response from chemicals. We are lost in the forest. As such, we cannot see the trees anymore.

There are very few things in life that require little to no questioning. A healthy society is one that is willing to question both the unknown as well as established normalcy. If we are to evolve in the course of time, as not only singular entities but a collective species, it is in our best interest to use skepticism and curiosity in generous portions. Instead of collecting objects, we can stop to consider the impact it causes to the landscape and climate of our pale blue dot. There are ways to spend money for oneself as well as for the benefit of others that could produce just as much, if not more, chemical pleasure such as donating to animal rescues. Even more worth consideration, we can give our time or effort to those around us who are struggling with mental illness or basic needs. I can only speak for myself when I say that time is worth far more than money or a cheap thrill. Time is something that is relatively as finite as money or the happiness produced from a needless purchase, but along with it comes even more possibility of what can be done with it. There is less impact to the environment as a result. Last but not least, it feels infinitely more rewarding to spend time than money on something given that it holds meaning to the person at the core.
