Materialism, like ambition, is a good servant, but a bad master. The drive to acquire new objects is rooted in the human need to create a more comfortable and enjoyable life. New or better tools can create a new source of income for an enterprising man or make a woman more effecient in her daily work, allowing her to have more time and energy to put into raising healthy children. If you have no desire to acquire new objects, you will, with few exceptions, find yourself stuck in life, not changing or growing. 

In the above-referenced examples, materialism is the servant. But it can easily and quickly get out of hand and become the master. We see this very often in our society with people playing the "keeping up with the Joneses" game; people acquire things not because they will improve their standard of living, but merely because they are jealous and want what their neighbors have. People also seek to acquire certain objects in order to cultivate status, such as a luxury car or a vacation house. These items are not really meant to improve life, but to gain prestige. (And it's arguable whether this extra prestige translates into something more tangeable, such as more business opportunities or a raise.) 

Materialism can take an even darker turn than this, when your master becomes your god--as seems to happening more and more in modern society. Someone once said that many people in today's society have "a God-shaped hole in their soul." Human beings are hard-wired to have a belief in something beyond themselves--whether that's God, spirits, karmic balance, etc. When human beings intentionally or by default have no belief in something spiritual, they seem to pour that same energy reserved for worshipping a deity into elevating the mundane in their lives--be that some political cause or, often, material wealth. Some people acquire possessions with the same fervor of a Purtain seeking to do good works to gain access to heaven. 

Religious people have long-warned that people who have no god will make one for themselves. This seems to be what is happening in modern society as fewer and fewer people identify with or practice some sort of religion: chasing the latest and greatest product is their life's purpose--what motivates them to get out of bed in the morning. Unfortunately, there is no evidence that this path leads to happiness. Worse, this seems to be leading to a deterioration of society as people value giving their kids toys rather than time and attention, give their spouses gifts in lieu of meaningful connection, and compete with their neighbors and coworkers rather than work in a cooperative tribe for the better of the entire community. Our social bonds are disentegrating as human connection is replaced with some gadget with an internect connect. 

Materialism needs to be put back in its place; it needs to be our servant, not we its.    
 
