Materialism, or the act of acquiring possessions and spending money, is often disparaged. However, as I will show, it is the key to the thriving, modern human societies we all enjoy. While many like to criticize materialism, their criticism is unwarranted. Moreover, in the vast majority of cases, these critics also do not put their money where their mouth is. 

While in modern times, our high levels of living standards allow people to also enjoy spending money on services and experiences, spending money in order to acquire more possessions is the heart of historical capitalism and therefore the lifeblood to modern society. The industrial revolution and the capitalist economies that sprang up around it were focused on manufacturing vast amounts of goods in such highly productive ways and at such low costs that these goods would eventually become affordable to every day people. Before industrial capitalism, humanity toiled at effectively subsistance levels. Only the very richest humans, like kings, emperors, and other aristicratic elites were able to enjoy vast quantities of goods. The industrial revolution combined with humanities insatiable demand for more possessions to create unprecedented growth that has allowed us to reach far above subsistence, to the comfortable lives we live today. These comforts, springing from not just capitalism, but also our inherent materialism, should not be overlooked simply because some people have become so used to their modern comforts that they ignore how truly incredible these comforts are.

While the history of modern industrial capitalism, and the massive increase in standards of living that we have all become accustomed to, are the most important reason that modern society should not be criticized for its materialism. It is also the case that the critics of modern materialism do not actually throw off the modern society they claim we do not need. Sure, they are willing to live at slightly lower levels of modernity in the name of an anti-materialist lifestyle. Maybe they are willing to live as if they were in the 1990s rather than the 2020s. But most of these folks are not actually willing to put their money where there mouth is in their critiques of modern materialism. They do not move to the woods or to the fields to live the pre-modern lives of hunter-gatherers or subsistance farmers. If they did, they would quickly learn themselves the deep, intrinsic value of our materialism. Instead, they keep access to all the trappings of modern life - their fidge, their stove, a roof over their heads. All the while they claim to disdain materialism and claim they are better than the materialistic masses, just because they like to have a little bit less stuff around than the average person. Their true disdain is for many of the things that we love, and they disparage as extra and unneeded. This would be a fine enough argument, if they were true to their argument. It is perfectly reasonable for people to have different tastes and preferences, and minimalism is a perfectly fine way to live. But instead, they act as if they have reached some higher plane of existence than the rest of us, lording their elite views over us. When in reality their lives our much closer to our own than they are to a world lacking materialism. 

In the modern era, where we take the simple comforts of our lives for granted, criticising materialism has become quite mainstream, particularly for our societies elites. But materialism does not deserve this treatment. The unnecessary material objects of yesterday are the necessities of today. The unnecessary material objects of today will be the necessities of tomorrow. This pattern repeats itself as our need to acquire possessions fuels the growth of our modern capitalist economies. These economies have pulled us out of the doldrums of subsistence living, allowing us to live the most comfortable lives of anyone in the history of the planet. And you don't have to take my word for it. Instead, look closely at the critics. You will find they do not shape their lives around their hate for all material possessions as they claim to. Instead, they only truly look down on the possessions you may find near and dear, while ignoring the possessions they believe vital to their own lives. 
