Competition has been around for probably centuries, as most people would associate the word with rivlary, games, sports, and even war. I think there are different forms of competition, such as the friendly, social type, where the focus is more on having fun, but at the same time pushing your limits. Then, there are competitions that are taken more seriously, especially for those whose ultimate goal is to win. In either case, I feel that the spirit of competition is necessary, not only to ingrain the ideas of winning and losing, but also to help with character building and learning how to cooperate with other people. However, in this day and age, competition is really only seen in collegiate and professional sports, and for the younger generation, competition has received criticism when children are given medals solely for participation, regardless of who wins or loses. With that being said, is it better to be successful through cooperation or competition?

I think this is one of those subjects that has a huge grey area, such as nature versus nurture, because there are so many factors that play into it and it depends on what is trying to be achieved and to what extent, and who is trying to achieve success. Let's say for example, that a high school volleball team measures their success by going to Nationals and winning. In order to do that, though, each team member needs to cooperate with each other, to find that chemistry and operate as a whole. Through cooperation, not only are they supporting each other, but they are learning about each others strengths and weaknesses and how to use them to each other's advantages, and how to overcome obstacles, not only with themselves, but with other teams. At the same time, competition is necessary.

Through competition, you either feel the thrill of winning and you push yourself to see how far you can go, or taste the bitterness of defeat and decide whether you want to accept failure, or work harder towards being succcessful the next time around. Either way competition is necessary to grow stronger through winning AND losing, and for a high schooly volleyball team, either path can help them in their journey to surpass each level of the tournament, ultimately bringing them one step closer to their goal. 

Cooperation and competition go hand in hand when trying to achieve success. In the same manner as Yin and Yang balance each other out. I think you cannot have one without the other, and neither is better than the other. It is about finding the balance and finding a way to alternate using the two in ways that is going to benefit you the most.


