     Wouldn't you rather work with someone who wants everyone to succeed and will listen to you rather than someone who is only out for themselves?  Cooperation leads to greater success because people have a shared goal and want to make sure that everyone succeeds.  In our world, cooperation over the long term leads to more success than competition.
     Cooperation leads to more success because it makes people want to help each other.  If you know that your partner wants you to succeed you will not only feel calmer and better, but you will also try harder to make sure that the other person succeeds as well.  For example, if you and a coworker are working on a project together and you cooperate, you will have more success because you will not be scared of sharing ideas.  If you were competing, then you might not share ideas because you don't want the other person to steal your ideas.  But, with a shared purpose of cooperation, you won't be afraid to try new ideas or to offer help.  Therefore, cooperation is better because more ideas will be shared and people will want to help each other.
     Cooperation will also lead to long term success because it takes into account everyone and not just one person's needs.  For instance, making a political policy that only benefits you or your company at the expense of others will help you in the short term.  However, in the long term others will suffer and will develop hard negative feelings towards your company will not benefit you.  Therefore, when you cooperate, people will remember you positively and they will be more likely to have a good feeling towards you in the future.  In the long term, cooperation will lead people to want to help each other because they will believe there is a group gain instead of just a benefit for one person.
     While rivalry can be helpful, cooperation will ensure that the success and the failure is shared.  There is strength in numbers and it is easier for people to do something when they feel like they are not alone, but have the backing of others.  Cooperation gives you  others to rely on and you will benefit for others skills and ideas that you might not have.  Pooling ideas and skills through cooperation will lead to more success than competition because the pool of skills and knowledge is deeper.
     You may think that competition is better because it lights a fire under people and motivates them to do their best.  However, this is wrong because it is only short lived and there are negative consequences to this approach.  Being competitive only helps you and it will cause you to work at the expense of others since only you will get the reward and no one else will benefit.  Competition can drive people to succeed, but the detrimental effects are not worth it.  Competitive people can hurt others and prevent people from wanting to work with them.  In a competition atmosphere there is one winner and other work at the expense of everyone else.
     Overall, cooperation garners more success for people than competition.  Using cooperation allows for a shared goal that will benefit many instead of just one.  Also, cooperation leads to a better atmosphere where people will trust each other and will be willing to share new ideas and thoughts.  Being cooperative is the best way for success and has a "we" attitude instead of a "me" attitude.

