Some people find life confusing when attempting to achieve happiness. Some will focus entirely on themselves, doing all of the things that they personally wish to do, hoping that they'll achieve this vague idea of happiness in the distant future. Others will prove to be selfless, putting the needs and desires of others before their own, never truly focusing on the self-fulfilling idea of their own happiness; always having someone else to put first before themselves. I ultimately believe that this, the focusing on the desires of others, is the key to an individual finding happiness. While the former can seem to be straightforward and relatively simple, it's actually a naive idea of what constitutes as happiness, one ultimately rooted in selfishness.

The simpliest reasoning for the happiness of others allowing you to find happiness yourself is that you'll never be focusing on solely yourself. In a situation where your dream is as simple as "I wish to be happier", that goal is always a variable. You'll always tell yourself that you'll eventually achieve that happiness, but as you gradually become happier, the goalpost moves with it. This is because the baseline of "not being happy" will always represent your current mood. Even as you become happier, you'll always wish to be even happier. Additionally, another argument in favor of putting others before yourself is that you're never focused on becoming happy, it simply comes to you as you help others. Kind acts breed more kind acts, and you'll always become happier from the positive energy of others. When you focus on the goal of "becoming happy", it's never a natural process. When you focus on the goals of others, happiness naturally and gradually comes to you.

Some people may argue that there's no one who knows your needs, desires, and goals to achieve happiness as much as yourself. Unfortunately, this idea is actually misinformed and close-minded, because no single person truly knows what will make them happy. They may think that they do, but it's all a facade meant to trick themselves. The human mind is an enigma and we've spent many years trying to understand it, yet there's still so much we don't know. Ultimately, it's nonsensical to believe anyone has the clearest idea of what will make them happy, let alone the average person.

Words don't usually mean much on their own, but given the right context, they can blossom into something far greater. Likewise, acts of kindness towards others can eventually turn around and become an even large act of kindness. Even without a concrete return, gratuity is infectious. Those who care for others are bound to be cared for in return, and ultimately, the one true sources of happiness for the mind is to be around the minds of others.
