The Productive Path

From an early age we are taught to play well with others. This is an important life skill that enables an individual to learn, achieve and grow in many ways. In elementary and grade school we work in groups or engage with teams to accomplish goals. This structuring promotes cooperation and brainstorming to achieve the best possible results.  Fostering this manner of learning, reaps benefits far beyond the elementary years. Learning to take part in a group setting enables each individual to utilize their best skill set to help the group reach peak performance in settings such as the work field.

Some believe that competing or competition inspires an individual to push themselves harder to win or to achieve a specific goal. While this can be an assest in sports, in many other occupations group efforts reap the best rewards. This can be specifically noted in the medical field.

Doctors work closely with nurses, nurse practioners, techinicans and surgeons to get the best results for their patients. While each needs to be independantly competent in their specific roles, they depend on each other to meet their patients needs. Lawyers work with paralegals and research assistants to build and defend their cases. Salespeople cooperate and work to promote the company visions to reap the best profits. These workforce teams get the job done by cooperation and depending on each other to get to the goal.

If congress would stress the importance of working and cooperating as a group, more legislation could be passed that would benefit society as a whole. Rather than constantly seeing things through a"red"or a "blue" lens, these colors could be blended to reap a whole new dynamic that takes advantage of the best of both sides.  The constant competition between both sides only results in stalemates and America suffers for it.  

While the debate of cooperation verses competition lives on, the definition of insanity is always doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result.  By going back to the basics that we learned in grade school, we as a society would learn once again to play well with others, treat others as we want to be treated and achieve the greatest goal by simply cooperating with each other. 
