          For the great majority of human history and today, success was defined in great part by the acquisition of goods. Some materialism is vital to survival in most parts of the inhabited earth. Without our drive towards acquisition, how many of us would survive a particularly harsh winter? How could we plan for needs ahead of time without the human instinct to gain, hoard, and preserve material goods? Although something has indeed changed in the past couple centuries. As each of us has grown richer, we have also grown apart, physically and economically. Our desire to acquire material weath should be used as it was for much of human history, to help ourselves, our families, and our communities through hard times. The modern materialistic lifestyle should be criticized for flipping a natural human ambition into something self-serving, toxic, and ultimately benefiting the commercial oligarchs  more than anyone else.
         Modern materialistic lifestyles usually create a treadmill of constant need for comforts that could otherwise be avoided if one would take a step back. Many people today spend significant amounts of their income on things like fast food because they feel like they do not have time to enjoy cooking for themselves. Of course, this habit forces them to spend more time in production of capital for the upper class. Finally, this decision to spend more time working further propagates their desire to consume fast processed food. 
        This materialism treadmill further negatively affects our health while becoming harder to exit with years. The need to constantly spend money and consumer commercial goods allows us to be complicit in the poisoning of our own bodies. For convenience, status, or ritual, we allow our bodies to be exposed to food, cosmetics, and other mass produced material without due diligence to manufacturing. 
         Psychologically there are also many deleterious effects leading to increased apathy, depression, and low-self esteem. In a world of ubiquitous consumption, it is easy to conflate the beauty, relaxed lifestyle, and admiration with excessive spending with character. Conversely, the materialism of modern society breeds a general air of contempt for those that either cannot or choose not to participate. Also the constant influx of novelty and acquisition in those embedded in materialism quickly leads to apathy and limited returns psychologically.
         One may argue that materialism bred our greater quality of life now, but I think that is an exaggeration. It has increased overall quality of life, but it could be further improved with more sustainable levels of consumption. The modern levels of materialism, especially in the upper classes of rich countries could be thought of as the opposite of sustainable consumption.
        Therefore, although there are many good improvements in quality of life that came with industrialization. The lifestyle of modern materialism breeds selfishness and psychological isolation. It hurts the planet and our bodies. Lastly, it hurts our sense of humanity that can only be gained by sharing goods and our time rather than obsessively consuming commercial products. 
