Title: Discconect Yourself

If there was one thing in the world that humans subconciously value the most even if most would admit it; it would be image. Have you ever heard of the term "perception is reality". Although in most cases that is definitely not true, subconciously it is. We as people have the tendency to judge by our perception. Whether if its someone who does not look succesfull to items or things that dont seem pleasent to obtain. Present day, media does its best to potray an image or impression that draws an audience in order to achieve exposure or to benefit from it. Now-a-days it can be said it is at an all time high as social-media is a platform that 99% of americans or people consume themselves on a day to day basis. Advertisements are built torwards consumers by cookies or keywords that is sold to advetisers to create ads to draw "you" the consumer in. Think of it as your own personalized TV advertisements you used to see watching T.V when you were young but actually built to items you recently search or things you have an interest it. It is crazy how that works right?

Now in business terms, perception is reality is very real. Brands want to draw you in and as an operator you want to have that interest in order to run your business. Hence why everything now is so centered on social media presense and marketing. But there is a dark side to this world of awareness. Humans. Human perception for the most part is alot more extreme now that everyone associates their self-worth based on their social value. Throughout the years and the craze of influencers popping up in media, many people have built terrible habits of judging their self-worth on views. Or that they must follow these trends and must follow what the most popular influencer is doing. Perception definitely becomes their own reality as they become narrow-minded & extremely judgemental. You see this in every facit of society in one shape or form. Whether if it's judging a peer because they dont look succesfull or dont live a lavish life-style or even down to how dating works in todays form. Many judge others at an extreme surface level unless that have some sort os substance or value to add to their own social status. Look at how 99% of normal people in society have become more open about their lifestyle but only post  travel photos or must have that perfect angle on their photos. This in my honest opinion is very common with women. I personally know a few people who arent doing the best financially but yet must have that fancy car or must have that amazing vacation every year. Take a bunch of photos and save them to post throughout the year for clout. Image and impression is definitely the main reason why people do this and it negative-ly affects our society. 

Image and impression has always been important throughout time however now-a-days, it has become extremely overvalued. Look at the increase of mental-illnesses and cases in which people go crazy when they dont get that social attention that they need to just feel validated. There is no true solution to this as this is the world we live in now. However I can only say one thing; take the time to discconect from this. See things with an open perspective and try to live life without expectations. Do things that you love and dont expect anything in return. Value the experiences not what people think of you or what others want you to do. Easier said then done but self-love is the most important thing in the world. Disconnecting from media, disconnecting from todays social values will lead to a better overall perspective. Image and impressions should not be as heavy as it is. 

