      It is a common belief that competition is important and that if you dont create a competitive environment then you are just creating a soft environment. While it is partially true if there is too much competion it can hinder success. In big companies where competition amoung themselves might be better aimed at other companies.                                    
     I believe that there has to be a balance especially when talking about the workforce. If there is too much competion then people are more focused about beating the other person and not so much about the progress of the project or task itself. I can see an environment where information is horded so much that it limits success where as if a team mentality process could be achieve easily by using all the information available. Preeventinga cut-throat environment that prevends process is not good. 
      It is also important to foster a little of competiveness so that it also keeps employees motivated to succed and work to the max of their capabilities. This is to prevent someone to have a mentality where bare minimal is all thats needed. Rewarding employees with promotion or bonus for a job well done and such will go along way. Also will satisfy the need for some people to excel amoung their co workers. If you create an environment that is too soft that not one person stands out of the crowd you might have an issue where employees start to flee to companies that offer more incentive for those that excel amoung their peers. Nowadays the participation reward is flooding society but that too can hinder progress as much as too much competition. 
     Although competition is not all bad it can create a cut throat environment and hinder succcess. We want to make sure we are also creating a team work environment where just one person is being rewarded. That people avoid sharing information for fear of missing out and losing a competion. A balance must be in place and contantly supervised to ensure that those that excel are motiativated and rewarded. 

