Saying that someone is materialistic is generally considered to be an insult. It insinuates that the person is shallow and lacks the depth of character that is crucial for a person to fully appreciate non material things. These insinuations are so fitting when it comes to modern society that I feel quite confident in saying that our modern society is wholly too materialistic.

In modern society people have lost sight of non material things such as spending time with family and friends, spending time in nature, engaging in hobbies, volunteering, helping others, and just sitting quietly with one's thoughts. People in our modern society are much more interested in "keeping up with the Jones's" than they are with partaking in non material experiences. It is far more important to people in modern society to have material possessions than it is to not.

From a young age people in our society are taught materialism. From the moment a child is placed in front of a television or mobile device they are bombarded with advertisements. These advertisements teach a child that happiness comes from material possessions; if you had this toy you would be happy, if you had this cereal you would be happy, if you went to this place you would be happy, etc.

All too often this early exposure to and encouragement of materialism carries on into adulthood. People are constantly seeking that next material item to bring them happiness instead of seeking happiness from non material experiences. I think that this is why you are more likely to see people shopping than you are to see people relaxing in a park. 

Materialism is not entirely negative, however. Some degree of materialism is necessary for human survival. If a person did not, for example, seek out the material goods necessary for daily life it is unlikely that they would live for long. If a person failed to seek out things such as water, food, shelter, and clothing they would die.

Materialism is also beneficial for capitalism. If people in modern society did not constantly seek out material possessions that they do not need many businesses would not survive.

Despite its few benefits I still feel that materialism is a negative aspect in the lives of many people in modern society and that it is something that should not be encouraged. When people look to external material possessions for happiness and satisfaction they lose sight of the non material things that truly matter in life; family, friends, nature, etc. 

Happiness does not come from material possessions; it comes from within and that is why I feel that modern society should be critisized for being materialistic.
