The love of money is the root of all evil. Money doesn't buy happiness. As children, we are taught that we should not be greedy. Modern society is often criticized for being materialistic, but this materialism actually brings about happiness for both the individual and society at large. We need to stop focusing on critiquing society for its materialism, and begin thinking about how else to help people live healthier and more fulfilling lives.

Materialism is not by itself an inherent evil. The objects we purchase often make life easier, or bring us joy. That is important for our general well being. For instance, people while some suggest that the hours spent on housework have not diminished despite the invention of the microwave, dishwasher, vaccuum, etc., people are able to spend their time on housework they may not have prioritized previously. It sometimes does seem strange to see several kitchen gadgets when a previous generation may have made do with just a knife, but the meals people can prepare are often more efficiently prepared, more varied, healthier, and honestly better tasting than those from generations past. The point of purchasing these objects is often not the objects themselves, but the time saved or joy acquired from using them.

Materialism does not preclude a focus on one's physical, mental, or spiritual health, or one's relationships with friends and family. In fact, many objects help us foster connections with others. For example, children happily share toys and find common points of interest in the toys that they own. While we often think longingly back to the days of yore when children played with simple blocks and lincoln logs, children's toys today often allow them to explore and advance deeper concepts. Gadgets such as ipads or smartwatches allow us to maintain connections with people who live far away. Wordly objects can even help us focus our attention on spiritual matters - think of the grand cathedrals or religious icons - these are materials that help some people develop closer connections with their beliefs.

There's also the fact that in our capitalistic society, materialism drives much of the economy. When we cut back on spending, that may be good for our own pocketbooks, but it also has an impact on the earnings of the factory workers, truck drivers, retail store employees, advertisors, etc. who rely on our materialism. Sure, they could find work in some other industry, but that's often easier said than done. Because of our consumption, those employees are able to provide for their families (whether or not they're paid sufficiently is an entirely different matter).

This is not to say that people should simply buy buy buy all the time. Obviously, we don't want people to waste all their money on frivolous objects if they don't have enough to meet their basic needs. In addition, the environmental impact of constantly making and then discarding these materials is devastating. However, society can and should develop ways to help minimize those impacts. For instance, one can join local "buy nothing" groups where objects are passed on, extending their use and bringing their benefits to others. As technology improves, we can find ways to reduce the carbon impacts of creating such objects in the first place. 

Thus, materialism is not the evil it's often protrayed as. In fact, I'd argue it can be a good thing. We simply have to consider and appreciate how the objects we're purchasing impacts our daily lives.
