We all have our own way of thinking that is unique, but does certain things effect a bigger viewing due to what they see? People come from many different back grounds allowing them to gain opionions of things that we do not necessarily all feel that way towards. How people present themselves in this day can be very deceving deoending on what content is provided. If you were more aware of how to view things that could change our opinion all how it is presented, would you?

Some will blantently ignore certain things they see because they know that it is missleading but do not want to admit it due to it being something they promote. It is all due to this person continuing to pass along this info without giving others all the info to allow them to make their own true view. It is easy to leave out a few words here and there or add this color or that to appeal to certain people. We are surrounded by people from all parts that push their own agenda to contort what something stands for for their own benefit.  

Ways that we need to start approaching things we see is looking at it from a critical thinking persepective. There is so much that is up for interpretations but if you have a certain level of education you are able to see that something can be tweaked to be decieving. The way that people are taught now is to not think for themselves but to think what others have thought. If those were to look at the info and see how they have used certain things to appeal or push away we would have less poeple following those that are toxically false. We have people that others look upto that have themselves been decieved but contiue to pass along the info to further pass along the retarict they want. 

The way things are construed is a controllable act that is all to well used purposely to impress their own view to effect others. If we were to start holding people more accountable for the false info they are pushing this could help elliviate some of this decievment. We are a country that has freedom of speech but we need to be the country that has truthful speech. There are some people out there pushing a dangerous view on others and sadly these people are not educated enough to know. If we were able to hold more people accountable for these deceitful things then we might have less poeple commiting crimes. 

When we can come together and say we need a level of checks and balances to keep our country truthfully updated and educated. We should be able to come together and be able to make a list of what is dangerous and how to correct it. No matter your political, ethical, or moral view is there is a line that crosses every path that should not be crosses under any circumstance. Until we can become of country that does not reward bad behavior we will not be able to get under control all this misinformation. It seems the country has allowed for to long those acting badly to still be able to profit and it needs to stop. Do not allow funding/donations to go to certain areas that we know is fueling this blatent hate for Amercia and what it stands for.
