     Many people have often wondered if success is more likely to happen through cooperation or through competition. Its a really good question and many companies, schools and colleges would love to know it. I mean who doesn't want to know what is better for success, I think everyone would want to know. This will be very helful for many and can have lasting effects on society. Both cooperation and competition have there merits and drawbacks and everyone has an opinion on the matter, including me.
     I think it really depends on the situation whether competition is better or coopertaion is. I think overall cooperation can provide more lasting and more moral success. Competition can too, but at what cost? Competition often leads to intense rivalry and sometimes outright hatred. Now I am not saying competition is bad, I think competition is good depending on the situation and context. Like a lot of things there is no end all be all answer, atleast in my opinion.
     Competition can often lead to people feeling as unnesscaery tension and sometimes unwanted rivalry. An example of this is when in a company you want a raise but only so many people can get said raise so you are competing with you're own coworkers to get this raise. This can lead to some small micro aggressions like ignoring people when they ask for help from you, maybe helping someone but making sure they do it incorrectly so they get reprimanded and sometime maybe even straight up lying about people to hurt their reputation. This is all in the name of competition and can often foster just an unhealthy work environment.
     Now some people may say that there have been many acheivments, inventions and just overall improvement to humans made through comeptition and I would agree with them. I would then ask them if those same acheivments and inventions could not ahve been made through cooperation instead? I think we know the answer to this, ofcourse they could have been. Sure maybe a very select few are outliers and could not have been but overall I think that they could have. Not to mention it was a different time when a lot of copetition was perfectly valid, but now it is a different time and different society as a whole.
     So I think its pretty clear that overall competition is just plain worse than coopertaion when it comes to success and only success but many other things too. Cooperation fosters a better work environment and makes people want to go to work in the first place. It lets people ask for help without worrying if that help is real or will it be used against them in some way. Cooperation can lead to just a more better society and I think everyone can want something like that and not what most competition offers, which is just unhealthy rivalry and competition among colleagues like savages.
     
