The pursuit of happiness is a well loved American ideal, but how does one best go about it? Some believe it comes by pursuing ones personal dreams and goals. Others believe it is when they focus on the happiness of others. I say that pursuring your own goal is the best path, but it's okay if that path is sometimes helping someone else reach their goal.

Goals can change and shift. Sometimes other things are discovered when in pursuit of a dream. Depending on that dream it may be acceptable to derail or delay that pursuit. Say one is attending college to study xyz, but takes a job to pay the bills that they eventually decide is more fulfilling that working at xyz could be. Does the person drop out of college? There are many factors that play into this. How far along a degree path is this person? Many employers consider a degree, any degree, as a benefit. How much potential is there for growth in the field they were distracted by? For example, bartending is something many could find enjoyable, but for how long? What other aspirations does this person have, for example, a relationship or parenthood? The typical 9 to 5 job comes with easier access to paid services like childcare. Of course, finding a partner that works an opposite shift and not having to pay for such services is a possibility.

What about focusing on another person's happiness as a goal? In my experience, this can work for a while, as long as the person you are supporting reciprocates in the future. Unfortunately, I have found that the "Wind Beneath My Wings" support person is often forgotten after the goal has been reached. For example, take almost every parent of every high school graduate in the United States. Though a quick "thanks, Mom" is fairly common, the graduate usually abandons the family life they knew, at least for a time. They aren't helping Mom find new hobbies, aren't going to ball games with Dad, etc. In a romantic relationship it can be that one spouse works while the other attends school, and then they reverse roles. This works really well for some couples but not at all for others. A continually revolving practice of selfishness vs. selflessness is the key to making such relationships work. When one person is the constant recipient of the support, resentment typically grows on the other side. Balance is required.

Before jumping into the deep end of the pool to help someone else achieve their goals, one owes themselves a deep look into what they would like their life to look like someday. Another thing to look at is what, if anything, they hope to get from the relationship with the person they are looking to support. Helping a spouse through medical school in hopes for an easier life when they are practicing medicine is one thing, but what happens when that doctor decides they'd rather go fishing all day, every day instead of earn that joint living you both were talking about? Ask me how I know about this scenario. Resentment is what happens when the bulk of responsibilites (read: children, house maintenance, paying the bills) is dumped by one partner onto the other. It is one thing to support a child or a friend that you wouldn't expect to have an expect to have an exclusive relationship with through some sort of goal. To pour yourself so completely into an exclusive relationship so completely as the medical school spouse example is to set your heart up to be smashed to smithereens. 

Before setting your own goal to help someone else's come true, you owe it to yourself to be honest about your own expectations. I felt great pride when my older children walked their graduation ceremonies. My expectation after years of changing diapers, preparing endless meals, chauffeuring kids here there and everywhere, is that they would someday leave the nest and be productive members of society. They have and that is well and good. For a spouse that doesn't hold up their end of the bargain, well, you can ask my ex-husband.
  
