Happiness is an internal feeling which occurs when something in favor happens. People tend to be happy for each and every work they do. Rather it can be told they search happiness in everything. Everyone ha their own perspective to look in for happiness. Some look in at if they focus on their personal goals and some look for it at if other are happy. There can be numerous reasons for anyone to be happy. Some earch happiness in smallest of things and ome search happiness in the biggest.

First we shall focus on people who are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals: This is a common phenomenon and human behavior. I do a work and I succeed and I be happy. In the above statement it is only I and nothing else. If I want to be happy I shall be focused only on my personal goals. What I have aimed for, what I have achieved is something we are looking at. My personal goals can be defined and set. So what we do is just focus on that personal goals and even in achieving thee goal sometimes we tend to neglect other aspects of life and aspirations which would have been quite imporatant as personal goals. I stive to achieve the goals and one has every right to be happy if they achieve the same but at the same time these goal are not the end of the world we have to strive for some more goal and this time set standards to a higher limit so that we work even harder to achieve and our potential is checked.

We shall now focus on people who are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others: Happiness when shared or received because of others ha a another level of satisfaction. so most of the people they search happines in others happiness. Few examples are these big non profit organizations who tend to serve the society. People behind working for thee organization also have big heart. They mean to serve people and obtain happine. They would have seen so much in life that now they are in social activity. And helping people just to see a smile on the face is their moto. They search happines of themselves in the happiness of others. They focus more on other being and leading a happy life.              

To conclude with the same, different people have different aspect how to get happy. Some earch happiness in their own peronal goals, some in others. It s only a way how to achieve happiness in ones life. It cant be said that one gets happy only by doing this or that. It can be more or it can be less. Some get happy if they see other being happy and some are happy because they would have attained a goal which they would have set for themselves. Setting goals in life is utmost important because we have to have an aim or objective which we should be working for. When we achieve to the objective, we tend to be happy. Someone has defined success beautifully: when given a task and after completion looking back and saying to self, I couldn't have done better than this, this is succes and in turn happiness. This can be implied either it i set for personal goal or happine of others.       
