A person can never have too much happiness. People may complain about being stressed, or feeling tired, but no one ever complains about being too happy. If a little bit of happiness is good, then a lot of happiness is better. So what we should be asking ourselves is, how can we maximize this feeling, a feeling which can have a positive impact on our health as well as our relationships with friends and family? To do this, we must understand our motivation. Are we intrinsically motivated? Are we externally motivated?  The way we maximize our happiness, and likewise increase our likelihood to be happy, in my opinion, is to focus on our ability to create happiness in others. 
First of all, I consider myself a happy person. Very happy, in fact. For a number of years I was career-driven, sacrificing time with friends and family so I would get a raise, a promotion, an advanced degree, so on and so forth. I thought I was happy. It was basically just me, myself, and I...and a whole lot of money and no time to spend it. I can see how years later it would leave me lonely and alone and although I'd have a lot of money for travel and adventure I wouldn't be too enthused about going solo. Then, I had children. My focus shifted to raising them, and taking care of a household, and making sure I was the kind of influence they needed to see. I quit my job and left a 6-figure career to be a stay-at-home-parent. While it was scary and different the first couple of months, after that initial change I have been the happiest I have ever been for the following 10 years. There is no one more selfless than a mom. There is no more invested in the happiness of others, their children, than a parent. I believe this shift in my own motivation, by focusing on others, increased my own happiness. 
Secondly, I have found that volunteer work in the service of others has increased my happiness. Even if someone's day is feeling rushed or they didn't get enough sleep and are irritable, I believe that an effort to improve another person's day will have a carryover effect on one's own mood. For example, I had forgotten one day that I had signed up to volunteer for lunchroom duty at my kids' school. I realized last-minute and I didn't want to go and I would have rather stayed home and done the laundry that was piling up and get my errands done that I planned for that day. I made the decision not to leave the cafeteria workers in a lurch, though, and went to fulfill my obligation. You know what? It was mac and cheese day. You know what puts a smile on kids' face? Mac and cheese. I'm serving lunch and I saw child after child, at least 150 kids, whose faces were beaming because I was there doling out delicious, creamy, cheesy noodles. I think when someone receives a smile, we all smile back. It's like a reflex. Even if your heart isn't in it. But by smile 45, even if you weren't really into it, it starts to become real and you are engaged and you are happy and they are happy and aren't you glad you're doing this instead of laundry? 
Sure, some people might be thinking that volunteer work and taking care of kids is overrated, or that time focused on others is simply time that could have been better spent on their own goals, whether that be growing their own business as an entrepreneur, or working on fitness hobbies or goals such as participating in multiple marathons or an Ironman triathlon, if that is what makes them happy. My point is that people need balance. If you find the right balance your happiness will be ten-fold. It's an exponential return. I would say that if you only focus on your own goals, you will receive X amount of happiness. But if you focus on the happiness of others as well, you will receive X squared amount of happiness.
Lastly, I know this phrase gets used a lot but it really does take a village. We all have to do our part for humanity and to improve not just our own lives but the lives of others. I think of what I heard Dr. Anthony Fauci say during the whole COVID healthcare crisis regarding masks, and I think it is applicable here as well. He said something along the lines of, "I don't know how to tell you why you should care about other people." NO one is asking anyone to help others to their own detriment. What it will do though, is lift up the entire collective. We are all part of that collective. 
In conclusion, I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others. For those in doubt, I suggest volunteering even for just a day. One can even take their normal focus or dream or their own goal and decide how that specialty or unique talent can be shared with others. If you own your business, speak to school children about what it's like to be an entrepreneur. If you are a mountain climber focused on climbing the world's tallest peak, sign up to teach a free climbing class at a local gym to underprivileged kids. Just try it. Start small and see where your happiness goes. Up, I imagine.
