The pursuit of happiness.  Isn't that everyone's goal?  It seems evident everyone should want to be happy, but how do we get there?  Were we born with it, stumble into it, need to work at it?  It is a more complex issue than a surface level examination.  Let's examine one important facet, does a self-focus on one's goals or focus on helping others provide a better avenue to true happiness?

Let's begin by getting a valid point out of the way.  No one treats this issue in a truly mutually exclusive manner.  One could argue even Hitler loved his kids, even if he was a tyrrant focused on evil to yield his version of happiness.  Accordingly, even the most steadfast individual working toward achieving the American dream or some similar concept will along the way treat others with some cooperation and kindness.  Conversely, those credited with being altruistic still tend to their own needs; some even do so in a very hedonistic manner.  Bill Gates, for instance, is widely known for his charitable work, but if he is truly happy there is no denying he has placed considerable emphasis on his own goals.  Life is rarely black and white. 

In this essay I will take the position that the pursuit of happiness is better and more likely achieved with a focus on the happiness of others than one's own personal goals.  This is for one fairly obvious reason, namely the reaction of others.  Simply put, we are social creatures, and the best adjusted of us gel with those around us.  The self-less tend to do this in such a manner as to foster positivity from our social world.  Our family, friends, acquaintances, even strangers undoubtedly like and appreciate us far more when aware of our generosity.  We live in world of need.  Others gravitate toward the Princess Diana's of the world when they help us out of our greatest difficulties.  It is almost as basic as human behavior can be.

This is in contrast to the cold, aloof rich man who hordes his wealth, working continually toward his own benefit.  Hollywood is replete with examples, with the message continually being this is a dead end in the end.  In every day life again it is not so black and white, but frequently those are so focused on their own goals only command respect from others without intrinsic value.  The moment an official relationship ends so does the contact.  Picture a secretary who cannot wait to get away from her self-absorbed boss.

In essence, you reap what you sow.  Happiness is akin to the plant that dies without nourishment but fourishes with care.  Focusing on the happiness of others only aids in the happiness of the self.  Others provide an enormous amount of our nourishment.  Who truly does not feel good when volunteering, lending a friend a hand, or even just providing a shoulder to cry on.  The benefits may not be immediate, but the happiest, most well-adjusted among us build a social network for life-long rewards.  It's a social world.
