The topic of happiness is decidedly germane to modern and even past societies of yesteryear. However, one can detect or unearth some possible hints or proverbial clues about what constitutes happiness via opening the Bible or hearing even good-doers, famous or not so famous, pontificate on what can lead to or help predict happiness. The age-old question about what leads to a person's happiness could be debated for centuries regarding whether someone should look out only for himself/herself or more towards other people. Stated another way: Should a person focus on his or her personal goals? Or is it prudent to focus on the happiness of others?

Serving and helping other human beings can not only benefit the nice person assisting another person, but the generous individual performing the good deed toward others. It is not all about one's personal goals and accomplishments, but helping other people succeed and garner success. The Holy Bible's premise is to do onto others as he or she would like to be treated. This commonly refered to as the Golden Rule. God frequently rewards those who help other people, although this is not the real reason to help others.

I can relate to this, as I am a believer in God, and I like helping others succeed in their goals. I have tutored fellow students and coworkers in the past, and I have done pro-bono business services work without expectation of any formal payment or benefit to myself. Some people I have helped have paid me money for my work without me asking or have bought/prepared a meal for me and my family. I view this as giving back to other people, particularly those less fortunate and those who could use my writing expertise. I have also assisted people with small business startup procedures and operations, particularly for freelance, independent contractors. Some small business owners do not know much about the importance of business taxes, writing, and analysing work tasks, particularly when opening up a new business. I was there once as well, and I know I have a talent for helping others. I also helped others in many of my previous jobs.

Some naysayers may quip and state something to the effect: Well, what about you? Aren't you concerned about your own success and taking a break from work or life in general? I contend that God put me on this Earth to help others; therefore, I do not subscribe to the school of thought of just worrying about myself and what is convenient for me in terms of time or effort expended. Unfortunately, the importance of the Golden Rule does not always gain the respect it should. In fact, some view those generous with their time as wasteful or foolish, or that someone is just too nice and not serious about success.

I strongly contend that I strive to assist other people in their academic and vocational endeavors. God gave me project management, leadership, and writing skills, and it would not make sense to use these only for my good. Many times, the thanks I receive from helping others means much more than some extra money or some pocket change. It is a balance, though, as even altruistic people need to pay the bills and keep the proverbial lights on at their homes/businesses.

In summary, people are often happier when they help others instead of just focusing on personal goals. Further, helping others can boost time management and vocational skills. Examples are writing improvement, public speaking, and project management. The do-gooder can put many of these work tasks on his or her resume, although I contend that the focus should not be on that. However, God sees the good deeds His children do when the go-gooder assists another person and does not expect anything in return.
