 Everyone hides behind a facade. What someone may present as their true selves, may only be a wall that hides what is truly behind it. It feels good to show the world that your life is exciting, free without worry. It is within the nature of our materialistic society to feel the need of showing off your favorite purchases, physical appearance, or experiences. Especially, today, where we can do it all within the tap of our phones on apps such as Instagram or Facebook.

  Everyone has an image or reputation that they must uphold. Think of notable celebrities or politicians. We have a certain view of their image, due to what they allow us to see on social media or television. If they stray from what we think their behavior is, it can have a negative impact on their career. This is why it is so important for many people to create an image of themselves on social media. But how does this affect everyone as a whole? This has created  issues in insecurity along with self confidence issues for many people. When you scroll through social media, all you see is materialism. People showing off their looks, or the fun that they have been having. Seeing this can cause a person to think that their not attractive enough or their lives are too uneventful. Unfortunately, another  issue is how much time and effort we go into creating  a positive image of ourselves. People spend hours editing pictures of themselves to post online just to create the impression they think others would want to see. Some may pay attention to even the most minute details in their posts, just to assure that it looks one hundred percent perfect. 

 Overall, it is important to know that appearances do not equate to reality. Us as a society will have to learn that social media is not  a great representation of a person's life. Without learning this, it is likely that there will be even more issues when it comes to impressions, along with self confidence. It may be a good idea to use social media to show what our true image is like, instead of posting a warped perspective of ourselves.

