What is happiness? Is happiness found within a person? Is happiness found within helping others? Happiness is the purest form of drug that can lead to a brighter existence. Happiness is a term that, although has a dictionary definition, is actually defined by each individual person, but only when they are able to find true happiness within themselves.

Most individuals can only find and spread true happiness when they are in a place in life where they are satisfied and happy with themselves. It is almost impossible to enjoy the world around you if you are not able to accept and love your own self. Being truly happy is the underlying goal of most individuals, even if they do not realize it. The goals people set for themselves can range from anywhere between being childfree and career driven to being married and having kids. No matter what the goal is, once a person moves closer towards that goal, or reaches it, they will reach a feeling of euphoria and happiness due to accomplising the set goal. Once they feel that level of satisfaction, the feeling becomes addicting. People will keep chasing that dream or that goal, to feel that feeling again. 

Only after a person is truly happy with the trajectory of their life and their goals can the happiness of others can come into play. A happy person is much more likely to be able to make others happy than an unhappy person could. This even applies when the persons goal is to help others because the act of helping in itself is the goal they have set for themselves. This will lead to all parties feeling happy, which in turn can lead to more acts of kindness towards more individuals and the process starts all over again.

In conclusion, people are more likely to be happy when they are chasing a goal in life. The reason for this is because being a happy individual will lead to making others happy, not the other way around. The happier a person is within themselves, the more inclined they will be to spread that happiness to others around them. 
