What is happiness? During my younger years, I heard several people say, "Happiness is not getting what you want but wanting what you get." Happiness is not an absolute, something guaranteed if one takes a particular path. Are we happier if we focus on our personal goals or if we focus on the happiness of others? I propose that it is important to focus on both. They are not mutally excuslive. While there are no guarantees, one has a greater shot at happiness if one takes rhe path of fulfilling one's goals and attempting to do things that will improve humanity.

It is important to focus on what is good for humanity, for the planet. Personal goals do not have to oppose what is good for everyone. We are all connected on the planet. We share one environment. Our personal goals cannot be inhuman or increase environmental, social and economic inequality or injustice. If our personal goals are at odds with those of organized society, we must re-examine those personal goals. There is a reward or happiness that comes from making life better for other people. That happiness increases when it is coupled with achieving one's personal goals. The more successes one has the happier one becomes. The most rewarding feeling is knowing that you have made the world  better for others.

If we pay attention to the testimonials of people who are giving of their time and talents to others, we might see merit in following the path of helping others while fulfilling a personal goal. Have you ever heard the testimonials of people who have helped in areas ravaged by natural disasters? Or, have you heard interviews with medical personnel who have worked in troubled areas around the world for Doctors without Borders? These people and untold numbers of others like them have found fulfillment and happiness by working to make the world a better place while focusing on their personal goals.

There are people who would argue with this point of view--people on both sides of the argument. Some people believe that to achieve happiness one must be completely selfless, thinking only of the needs of others while abducating personal needs. Well, I once had the experience of sitting next to the members of a university philosophy department at a luncheon in which they argued for an hour whether or not absolute altruism is in fact not a form of selfishness. I am unsure whether this is selfish but the act of giving everything of one's self away and leaving nothing one's self does not, I believe, fulfill one's purpose for living as humans. There are others who believe that they, their wants and desires are paramount and come at the exclusion of everyone else's.  How then does one honor one's responsibility as part of a group--family, community, workplace, society?

People in societies often experience a type of "two-ness." They have obligations to take care of their own needs while taking care of the needs of the groups of which they are a part. People are happiest when they are able to fulfill their personal goals while making sure they have not neglected their obligations to the groups to which they belong. Focusing on personal goals while considering the happiness of others is the path to all around happiness.
