In the modern world, we are at the peak of so many things. The progress in the modern market that has progressed over the last half century is incalculable to that before it. The greatest critics of materialism are those that have not taken the time to understand exactly what we constantly have at our disposal. Materialism is not a new concept and it has not been recently introduced into society, and for this reason there is no logical understanding as to why modern society is so heavily criticized for being materialistic.

Since the times of the first car in the 1930's to the times of the kings and pharoahs of the old world one things has always remained: posessecions. Since the dawn of society as we define it today material things have been at the forefront of the consideration of things like wealth, status, and quality of life. What poor piriah in India has not wished for things? What slave in Ancient Egypt did not wish for material things. It is this longstanding tradition of materialism that is been baked into the very core of society for thousands of year. What is the only difference now from then? Accessiblity. In today's world and its innovations and mass production the availability of material items is easily the highest it has ever been by exponential margins. Through this accessiblity there has been a stark increase of materialism within the masses; however, this is being criticized at astounding levels. We should be no more criticized for our materialism as ancient kings and pharoahs were for theirs.

It is through the scope of today's society with population, innovation, and accessiblity that we see materialism screaming beyond margins not previously seen; however, there is no difference between the materialism that we are seeing in today's modern society and the materialism that has been documented for thousands of years; therefore, why should such a thing be criticized? We criticize what we are afraid of and do not know. And this level of materialism is certainly an unknown, but criticizing a modern society based off of the ideals that have been engrained into society since its beginning only because it has grown to unthinkable levels is simply unnecessary.

