Thomas Jefferson wrote in the Declaration of Independence that all men were given the fundamental rights that include life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.  The pursuit of happiness has been a major focus of philosophers, theologians, the rich and the poor for as long as man has existed.  How to achieve happiness is one of the great questions of life.  Two divergent thoughts on this are to either focus on one's self and drive to reach the goals that bring you satisfaction or to focus on others and find happiness through the joy that you cause others to experience.

It is my own experience that I am most happy when I focus first on bringing happiness to others.  I also believe that my experience is confirmed by the experience of the vast majority of people.  Much of being happy is the joy of sharing positive experiences with other people.  While one may be able to find someone close that will celebrate your own happiness with you, it is much easier to find people to celebrate with you when you have worked to bring happiness to them also.  If you look around, you will find that many of the happiest people are the ones that are helping others.  Pastors, police officers, teachers, coaches, volunteers for all kinds of charities have all found the key to personal happiness is investing their own time and energy into the lives of others.

Some may argue that focusing on others only leads to burnout and setting aside one's own dreams and desires in life.  However, with the proper perspective, one can experience tremendous self fulfillment and personal development while looking out for the happiness of others.  I used to be a teacher.  I made it my primary goal to elevate my students understanding and development to the highest possible level.  It was hard work and required a lot of sacrifice, but by aligning my own goals with the higher goal of making my students happy, I found that I became a much more rounded person with a deep understanding of the subjects that I taught.  This eventually opened doors to move into an industrial career that involved fascinating projects, worldwide travel, and the opportunity to continue mentoring young new employees (essentially continuing being a teacher).  I experienced tremendous joy with my colleagues as we grew together, and tackled difficult, but very fulfilling projects.  Much of the fulfillment of the projects came from focusing on the happiness of the customer.

I would strongly advise anyone that is struggling with happiness to first take a look around and ask, "How can I help the people I am closest to become happier people?"  When you start to focus on others, then align your own goals to make yourself a better person for helping others, then you will suddenly find that happiness flows all around you.
