When I was younger I viewed happiness as something that I could achieve and reach towards and thought about it as simple a goal or an achievement. The older I got I found myself finding seeking happiness and questioning wether a "state" of happiness could really be achieved. The older I got the harder it became to create or find something tangible as happiness, until I realized that looking back in my life I only truly felt happiness when remembering moments and that is when I came to realization that the persuit or experience is the source of happiness for me.

I've accomplished several different goals in my life as so will other people, but through these accomplishments I believe the happiness that is achieved is fleeting. The moment you realize you have finished whatever it may be that you wish to do is the moment you have to figure out what is the next step for yourself. This is a integral part of discovering your own happiness as being aimless or without purpose can lead to one feeling unfulfilled and unhappy, but this is with the fact of the matter that one has already accomplished what they set out to do for their own individual purpose. If happiness were part of accomplishing something for the individual self then why would there be a need to seek out a new sense of self worth upon reaching the goal?

Experiencing and truly being in a moment and losing the idea of myself are the happiest memories I've ever had. When looking back at my life I've rarely had moments to stop myself and truly acknowledge that I was happy and it is only in looking back that I realize that I was truly content with myself and where I was. The most fulfilling and meaningful experience I've had in my life is while helping others as those experiences carry on and exist well beyong my own recollection as I'm reminded of the affect I've had on others in indirect ways, like how I got my best friend his first job in the career he's very sucessful in now. I'm always reminded how great it was the be there for him whenever he mentions how content he is with his new position.

I believe if you focus on others you will find a place a time for yourself in this world. Rarely are we worried about where others are and were they are going but often times we are worried about ourselves and how we might fit in this world. The truth is that humanity in itself is the biggest example of how unity and helping others can move an entire species forward into greater heights. The pursuit of oneself is of one to find purpose but at the end the only true purpose one can have is to exist and after that it is to share and help others exist. Beyond existence there is just yourself and to find happiness with that requires a mindset that you are the one and only most important thing in this world, which if we have learned anything in our small time in this universe is that we are not. For this I find that being honest and caring to others is the only way to find true meaning and happiness for yourself. 


