As the pop singer Madonna famously said "We are living in a material world, and I am a material girl." Indeed, anyone in the western world can see that, even though we may not like it, Madonna is right: we are living in a material world. It is easy to criticize materialism. We see criticisms of materialism everywhere from left-wing university professors to fundamentalist Christian preachers, and everyone in between. We hear common phrases like "Money can't buy happiness" or "Money is the root of all evil." But before we overthrow our materialstic world, maybe we should stop our critiques for a moment to consider the good of materialism.

First of all, criticizing materialism is a luxury brought by the wealth and comfort we currently live with. Today, it is common for poor people to have conveniences like air conditioning. Starvation is a rare situation in the west - in fact, obesidity (too many calories) is a more common problem. Middle class people take vacations to Europe. Most people have a smart phone with more computing power than what NASA used to put a man on the moon.  People living only a couple generations ago would marvel at the immense wealth we have in the modern world. All of this is thanks to materialism and free market capitalism. 

Of course, a materialistic society has its abuses. People do immoral acts to gain wealth, whether it's a white collar executive committing insider trading, or a poor person robbing a liquor store. But this is more about the human heart than materialsim itself. If we lived in a world void of materialism, people would not suddenly become angels. Jealousy and greed are a part of the human condition, no matter if we live in a materialistic society or not. 

Another benefit living in a materialistic society provides is the abilty to be a generous person. It is out of our abundance that we share with those less fortunate. If we lived a more subsistant life, then concepts like philanthropy would be meaningless. The people who work hard and have some luck are able to accululate great wealth, and through this wealth, share with those who haven't made it. 

Ultimately, a materialistic world allows us to be individuals. We can choose to live simply, if we want. We can also choose to apply our talents, work hard, and gain more material posssessions. Whether we want to participate in the material world, or ease back into simpler, perhaps more spiritual world, is our choice. We can choose to model our life after the extreme wealthy, like Elon Musk of Tesla, or we can choose to live a life of simplicity and service like Mother Theresa. Either life can be fruitful, fulfilling, and help improve society. The point is we are free to choose, and that is a beautiful thing. Therefore, we should not criticize the modern world for being materialistic, but be thankful we are living at this very moment.
