Happiness appears to be one of those fleeting emotions that every individual seems to experience atleast once in their live. It sounds fairly obvious written out, however, to some people, who have anxiety and depression (like myself) it is quite the fleeting experience, that seems to be constantly chased. For me personally, I always tend to feel better when I am helping others achieve happiness. Something about being able to put a smile on another's face is able to put a smile on my own face. Therefore, I believe that people are much more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others rather than their own personal goals. 

I've always been the type of person that just wants to make other people laugh and feel good. For some reason, anytime I am able to cheer up an individual who is having a crappy day, it just makes my own crappy day fade into the background. Of course there's individuals who think that a person should be more self and goal orientated; to push themselves forward to create happiness. My main issue with that line of thinking is that, what if your goal is to make others happy? Is it possible to be able to have your personal goal be the happiness of others, and thusly for that to be your concentration? I believe so, as that is personally my goal in life, so make others happy.

I think a good example of these two concepts intertwining while at the same time demostrating that the happiness of others is the concept that was stronger is the entertainment industry as a whole. Think of it like this, yes there are individuals who just want to be actors, musicians, etcra; however; how would their creations go out into the world without an audience? Also what would it mean to the creator of the art if it didn't make the consumer happy? It would end up possibly being meaningless; for their own personal goals would be unachievable without creating the feeling of happiness within the consumers of their media. The best example of this is the comedian. Yes a comedian can find themselves funny, and their personal goal in life could be to be the best comedian; however it is highly more likely that their goal in life is to make others laugh. Laugher is essentially another form of happiness, so why would the concept and job prospect of a comedian exist if it wasn't for the simple goal to be the creation and catalyst of happiness within others? The job of a comedian would not exist nor be even thought of in the first place if the concept of creating self happiness through the happiness of others did not exist. 

So to summarize, I believe that while individuals can chase their happiness through the fulfillment of their personal goals and dreams, it is highly more likely that happiness can and will be achieved through the shared experience of feeling happiness with others and through others. Not only does it cause a domino-like effect where that happiness shall be passed on and spread, it shall other fulfill the whole "personal" goal dynamic. It can be a great way to achieve happiness through the happiness of others. It can also be a distraction from the anxieties of personal goal achievement to have the ability to make another person smile. 
