If I told a best friend, family member, acquaintance or even a stranger that I scored a perfect 300 in bowling, received surprise flowers for my birthday or that I was promoted at work would that make that person any more or less happy than if it happened to them personally? 

I think happiness comes from relating to people, knowing their struggles, wants and needs and how they've worked for and accomplished those same goals. 

Happiness is understanding others. When you are happy either for your own personal goals or the happiness of others, it's because you have a relationship with them. You identify with them. You want yourself to do well, but others as well. It seems to hit the happy factor a bit more when you feel and can appreciate what the other person is feeling or can sense that emotion.

For instance, you can be happy when some actor on TV wins an award or makes the winning basket for an NBA championship, but there's a different type of happiness when you watch the videos of soldiers coming home, animals getting adopted, family reunions. You don't have to know these people or animals. I believe it's because there's a kinship there. A sense of knowing what these military families, animals and families have all gone through. You understand loss, missing someone, grief. Therefore, when you see someone happy or are happy for someone, it doesn't matter if it was due to their personal goals or your own, you can be genuinely happy for both. 

People who are happy when good things happen to others, are usually happy in their own lives as well in general. They don't have the envy or jealousy and want others to do well.

There's nothing wrong with setting and focusing on your own goals. But, that may not make you happy. It can be your journey or someone else's journey, that makes you realize how good you've got it. How happy you didn't realize you were anyway. Count your blessing and be happy. It doesn't matter how you got to happy. The journey. Any journey got you there. Enjoy.
