I believe there is a strength of character in those that have a charitable spirit and feel empathy towards others, and it can definitely be said that giving your time to help others can help you develop a better sense of self. Granted there are probably individuals on both sides of the spectrum, those that purely gain joy from self-motivated interests, as opposed to those who gain pleasure from assisting those in need, but the world would be a much happier, peaceful place if people attempted to be more charitable and were able to see the positive outcome it might have on their worldview. 

I pursued a degree in Social Work so it seems like a given that I believe in activism, volunteerism, and compassion and care for those from marginalized populations and I am well-aware that not everyone adheres to the set belief set that I do. What I do know is that making the world a better place can only have positive benefits, if the motives and intentions are true. I have often given friends advice when they find themselves in a particularly low point in their lives suggesting that they donate some time to those in need. Volunteering can increase confidence and a sense of self-worth, and helping others can help an isolated person build a network of positive relationships, in essence expanding the potential of their immediate worlds. 

Being driven purely by individual self-serving motives might provide temporary happiness, but we are all citizens of the world, and change can only be made in the world if more people are on board with a common goal of treating others kindly. Wars are started based on self-serving motives, for example the crisis in Ukraine right now. Our society today is so rife with hate, capitalism and corporate greed, mass shootings, wars, political division. Working together rather than prioritizing self-interest could lead to happiness across the board, individual and on a mass scale. 

Humans thrive on connections, and so many connections these days seem insincere, guided by ulterior self-serving motives. In summary, I believe mental health issues in the worldwide community could benefit from humans helping other humans, and there's no downside that I am able to identify. 
