I think that most people like to present a fake self to the world.  I feel that advertisements have a lot to do with this. Most advertisments are shown to be airbrushed and photoshopped. Even people that have come out and said they struggle with a disease that leaves them looking less than perfect will end up greatly photoshopping their pictures. 

Growing up, our children have become accostumed to so much fakeness that they accept it as real. So from a young age now, we are teaching people to lie. An example of this is makeup- which I don't wear. I have seen some people looking horrible before their makeup is applied. Once the makeup has been applied, they look like a completly unrecognizable person. 

We need to stop making fakeness a norm. It shouldn't be a big deal for people to post real selfies of how they look. Or the junk that has been pushed out of the way so they can have a perfect family picture for social media. I am not sure when all this became our norm but we need to stop this now for our children before it affects them any more than it already has. I have seen it so often in pictures where a mom posts their true self with reality. I feel like many more do this than admit to it. 

I see this more in women than in men. Women from a young age are objectified for various things. Girls are "cute" when they wear makup at age 5. Beauty pagents really tend to show this. Girls are judged based on their looks. They are to prance around looking like grown women. And the adults in their lives support it. Saying how cute so and so looks. This is just not right. 

Some photoshopping I would assume affects men but as I am a female, this isn't something that I would know a whole lot about. I could see men wanting to be like their favorite politician or supporting their favorite politicain. They could just agree with things that they don't know why they are agreeing with it becasue so and so said it. Maybe so and so says they use a certain product and they have a lot of ladies so they feel as though this is something they decide to pursue. But really that person was just making money on the advertisment. 

With men as well, I believe it is less talked about that the media influences their decisions. Men are wanting to be independent and seen as independent. So they might not let others know that they have decided to change based on something they saw in the media. They could want to be like someone but that someone could be a loser and could do drugs. Is it really worth their life to be like them? 

It worries me as well when famous people are running for public office. What qualifications do they have that makes people think they would be good for this? Sure they played a great president in that movie and won an emmy but in real life are they able to do the same? They have given off the impression that they are great at something but in reality they may not be. Why would one want to lie about this? Does it booster their self esteem? What is it doing for others? 

We need as a society to focus on what really is. If someone is struggling, they need to let others know that they are strugling. They need to not be judged for saying they are struggling. More famous people need to truly show their real selves to the world and not some photoshopped image.  It's ok to take a while to get over the birth of your child and not bounce back right away to that size 2 you were. We need to stop living up to these impossible standards that people have set and just be. I worry greatly about future generations. 
