          In the modern era, societal dependency on consumerism has grown increasingly apparent through the assistance of social media platforms. Generations today, especially younger people, are subject to new content at a touch of a button on a daily basis. Modern day social media influence are able to expose information to audiences of millions within seconds. This newfound power of the modern age constantly drives culture around of the world for better or worse, most notably pushing the acceptance of materialism onto entire societies with no questions addressing the consequences of these influences.
          To start, social media influencers make the majority of their income through paid promotions. At the start of their reign, aruguably around 2015, it was rare to see any online celebrity disclosing whether or not the products shown in their content was an ad. Oftentimes a link would be placed in their Instagram bio or in the caption, passed off as convenience to their followers. There's no question that audiences who follow these people, who were often wealthier and more affluent than the average Joe, would want to have material possessions that would help them to be closer to the popular people they follow. For example, Kylie Jenner used to post content about a so-called tea that helped her lose weight and stay active. This weight loss tea blew up on social media because of this promotion, only for audiences to later learn that the tea contained potentially harmful ingredients and consumers had only seen weight loss because of the excess amounts of laxatives. The product didn't have long term results, but the damage had been done already with the mass amount of misinformation spread by infuencers like Kylie Jenner.
          The extent of these promotions didn't stop at tea. Soon companies saw the obvious marketability and would send free clothing to those with large enough followings with the promise that their websites would be linked. This remains to be a largely successful method of promotion with the growing desire to emulate large influencers. This includes the promotion of fast fashion, which is proven to have dramatically negative effects on global climate change and poor working environments in countries that produce these clothing, like Bangladesh. Due to the cheap prices of fast fashion, changing trends were able to turn over faster. The quality of clothes dropped dramatically to keep up with market demands.
          A common argument that accompanies fast fashion are the cheap prices and the fact that the poorest in America are able to find their own styles, which is true, however the consequences are undeniably worse. Clothing waste is among the worst varieties of poluation and attribute to a large amount in landfills.
          Overall, the increase presence of materialism should be cristicized for filling the pockets of social media influencers and promoting irresponsible waste.
