I think people achieve more success through competition. Competition is the law of nature and people usually thrive through this thinking. Give people something to strive for and they will work hard to make it happen. There is nothing like a good competition in work or even in regular life. You will get the best out of people this way. For most people competition is as fun as it is intense.

Competition will bring the best out of people and you will see there full potential. People will really lock in to what they are working on and you will get better results especially if there is a reward in the end. That will make people strive to be the best that they can be. I believe that rivalry is the best way to bring the best out of people. More work will get done when people are competing against each other because everyone will want to win.

Winning is very important to people in gereral and seems to get the best results out of everyone. Just look at athletes and how hard they work to be the best in there respective sport. The drive that goes into being the best can be seen on your telvision watching any sport that you can think of. You can take this attitude into any part of your life and make a competition out of it to get the best out of people.

People will say that groups can get the most work done with minds working together. I see it the other way because too many idea's between people can slow the process down. Not to mention if there is a disagreement in the group can bring progress to a complete stop. Than what do you do. There might need to be an intervention to get the group going again. There will be people who disagree and I understand that is there opinion. You can try both ways but you will get more from competitions.

With competion the gains outweigh the losses. You will get more out of people when they are competing against each other. There will be more idea's and more production out of everyone. I would always use competition over groups in almost every aspect of work or play. Get the most out of people and make it an insentive for people. This will drive people to be the best they can be. They will accomplish more in life trough competition.

