In todays society, people appreciate abundance. A vital part of our social norms today have standards that surround materialism. You have to have the newest shoes, the latest iPhone, the aesthetic, instagram-worthy coffee on your way to work. This concept of materialism is widley debated - with practices like minimalism becoming a hot topic of discussion. Though these opposing practices have one thing in common; People like their suff. People like to buy and own things. People like to consume. And the stuff that people have determines how they are viewed in society.

Materialism in todays society boils down to two things: The way you view yourself and the way the world views you. With social media playing such a heavy hand on many peoples lives every day, this puppeteering grasp has us rid of the old, and bring in the "new". This "new" are newer versions of items already established, or something purchased in a routine that is a one-time enjoyment. It has become a sociatal expectation for everyone to conform to these rituals. You don't see many people studying around college campuses with laptops from the 2010's - even if they work properly. You don't see many people using wired earphones anymore, though they are more reliable than wireless. The reason for this practice is so that others don't judge. They may judge your lack of "new" and assume your soical status, living situation, income, and other means. These make a person appear lesser than they may be. To the person who decides to not purchase the "new", or cannot afford to purchase the "new", they feel this judgement. Many people compare themselves to those with this "new" and feel lesser than. Less cool, less exciting, and less worthy. The items people choose to have create an emotioinal tie to their place in the world, and though it may not be connected to one item, it ties together most everything consumed. 

Lack of the "new" does not make one less worthy, however. Minimalsim is trending in response to this materiasm craze. Minimaslism is where one strives to have only the essentials. The bare minimum of any items to keep them going. And this practice is intentional, a way to declutter their surroundings and "declutter their brain." In contraty to not having the "new" the people who preactice minimaism are often viewed as more well off. They are able to afford this presteige style of living with more risk of something breaking and not having a reliable back up readily avaliable. This practice attempts to show how valuable it can be to nly have the essentials without unnecesary means. However, minimalism still circles back to the same reason of why people practie materialism - the stuff. The items that are choosen to be kept while practcing minimalism shows sentimental and emotional value. 

The significance of the belongings someone has is due to their emotional impact. People are addicted to their phones, their social media. People enjoy the convienence of the wireless earphones. People like their routine of a $5 morning coffee. Those these items are not truly essential for every day life, people would feel lost without it. The need the "new" to remain caught up in the times. By having the same items as their peers, they fit in more. Fitting in more and being seen as with the times makes people generally more happy. 
