Happiness has many different definitions to different people. As I look at the prompt, I can't help but think of the song "Happiness Is..." from the musical "You're A Good Man, Charlie Brown", which since I cannot access other sources at this time, I will have to think about from memory. In the song, happiness was listed by various characters as a variety of things, and ultimately I think that is my own stance. Happiness, as a I state in the first sentence, is defined differently depending on the person and that's okay. However, the prompt asks an important question which feels very psychological to me, and that's: are people more likely to be happy if they focus on personal goals or the happiness of others? Personally, I think that this probably has some nuance than a simple black and white answer as I posit that it's not an either or answer. I think the answer will be found in the individual, in a way that cannot be answered with a simple choice. People are varied. Our happiness and how we gain it is varied. In this essay, I will consider this factor. 

There are two choices for happiness here: focusing on the self and focusing on the other, and for now, let's start with the self. The self is you (or me, the writer). Ultimately, it is vital that we focus on ourselves when we figure out how to find happiness. Think about what would make you happy. Does it make you happy to achieve some personal goal or find some fulfillment in a hobby or something that is absolutely related to you and your life (a relationship, job, pet, bank account, family, etc)? If the answer is to be found there, then ultimately that would be your choice. You wouldn't be happier if you focused on others, and that's not bad. You are not selfish, you are caring about yourself. 

Of course, there are others who would rather focus on the improvement of humanity or others and that's where they get their happiness or validation and that's also okay and good. Someone who wants the world to be a better place is a good person, and their attempts at bettering it are valid (especially if they have progressive values). An activist who focuses their life on civil rights for the marginalized is happy because they want others to have rights. That is selfless and that is good. And it's ultimately also caring about yourself because you live in the world too. 

However, I do not think people can be put into boxes where they only get their happiness from their personal stuff or from the happiness of others. Humans don't really work like that! Yes, I think I would be very happy if I won the lottery, found a partner to love, and got to do all the things I've wanted to do. But would I be happy if say, an abused person got away from their abuser? Yes! Yes I would! I would like to think that other people being happy, especially if I cared about them, would make me happy too. If trans folks got their rights enshrined in federal law, I would be happy! I am not trans but that is something that would make me happy. It is an improvement for humanity, and a good. I imagine that the person who is solely focused on the happiness of others would be happy as well. 

Though there are other people who are like, well, this doesn't impact me so I wouldn't be happy. I have seen people on the Internet say things along the lines that forgiving/cancelling student loan debt shouldn't happen because they personally paid their loans off. That's a weird and bad attitude to have. You think no one should have it because you didn't get it or won't benefit. Selfish, selfish, selfish. 

In conclusion, people are varied and the way they get their happiness will of course be varied as well. I suspect that any attempt to study this kind of thing, would ultimately get that same result. Though I would love to see a study of that nature where someone tests that. I ultimately think there's no concrete answer and it's up to the individual on how they get their happiness. But also, I would imagine this answer would vary depending on the type of culture a person is from, an individualistic culture like the "West" (USA, etc) or a more collectivist culture, like one would see in various Asian countries. 
