The 20th century saw economic shifts that resulted in the creation of a stable middle class with a strong amount of disposable income for one of the first times in history. People are now able to buy more and given the cheaper costs of production of goods, many products are less expensive and there are goods in excess of our basic needs. While it is inarguable that more people are well-off now than in the past, this has come at the expense of environmental degradation and valuing material possessions over most other aspects of life. However, I would argue that this is not the fault of the consumer and society should not be criticized, for two reasons. One, it is governments and regulatory bodies that need to step in and curb the most harmful aspects of materialism. Two, there is nothing wrong with "owning things" there is only something wrong with owning products that were created through environmental and human rights abuses.  
One of the main harms of a materistic culture is that often people buy things without thinking about the underlying costs. These underlying costs are hidden and often purposefully so in order to make people focus on the end product rather than how something was created. One of the major costs is that it takes a lot of energy and raw material to manufacture the goods to serve a materialistic culture. When people buy clothes, for instance, they see the end result of a long process of manufacturing, that involves harvesting of the raw material, slave-labor like factory conditions, and the transport from one part of the world (often) to a completely different part of the world. These all come with environment costs and, often, human rights abuses, as well, but consumers rarely see them and because the manufacturing process is obscured, it is hard to criticize someone for unknowlingly playing into this system. Instead of leveling criticism at consumers for this, it is time to acknowledge that producers and governments need to oversee manufacturing processes more closely and put stringent environmental regulations in place. These would help to curb some of the most harmful parts of a process that underlies "materialism."
And part of the problem is actually the idea that we should criticism society for materialism rather than criticize governments for no regulation of industry or producers for wanting to create as many products as possible as cheaply as possible. This criticism becomes another way to overshadow the real problems with these goods and how they are produced. There is no reason why owning a product is a bad thing or why owning many products could be considered bad. It is the products themselves that are good or bad, ethically created and sold, or created under conditions of low wages and environmental harm. 
You might argue, however, that this doesn't give enough agency to the consumer and consumers have a lot of power to change the system of production and could do so by simply buying less. This is somewhat true, if all citizens of a country were able to come together and demand change, this would be a major blow to material culture. This is unlikely and it still would fall to governments to make substantive changes, enact them, and then for producers to abide by them. Consumers can ask but cannot force change by themselves. And, because the process of manufacturing is often obscured, again, it can be hard to see some of these abuses. 
Given that it would be hard to argue that owning more goods is ethically wrong, we can see that what is really wrong about materialism is the costs of these goods to humanity and to the environment. The critiques of materialism must be leveled at an exploitative manufacturing process that has little regard for the people forced to toil in factories and little regard for the planet on which we all live. Criticism of society for this is criticizing people who come into the process at the end point, too late to actually have stopped any of the harm of industrial manufacturing. 

