Images and Impressions in this two sided world that have a another face other than reality put an impact on peoples lives. It seems that people are busy in glamouring the one side that is in front of world bith forget to better the side whivh really lies with them. That other side front of the world has been given more importance than what is important in reality.

It has started with social media, also with the people in politics and entertainment industry as people have started to follow their lifestyle and accept them as role models at a greater extent. As all know that everything that we see is not real on social media or by the people we follow or what they keep front  of us but we get affected or may be influenced to the outer glamour that makes in believe in unrealistic outcomes that take us away from the reality.

People who are now a days trying to show a reel life on media including entertainers, politicians and other public figures create a view of life that is not so practical or no emotional balance and people try to follow them their thought process and end up messing up. Because not always it is reality based but now a days its more content based and the content is not proportional to reality. Some things appear so different than how actually they seems to be. The worst effect on people of these images and impressions created is actual meaning and defination of many things is changing in peoples mind. The perspective of looking at things is changing. It make us something that we never wanted to be, our track changes.

Something that can be done to lesser the effect of images and impressions on people is , trying to get knowledge about something from more relevent things like books, experience, real heroes and many other. Being wise to the real goal of who we want to become and understanding what we are really following. Coming out of the gang of sheeps and following them in a unrealistic way and seeting unrealistic expectations on basis of these images and impressions.


