  Happiness. Where does it come from? Does it manifest from personal achievement or does it come from making other people happy? I would have to argue that it comes through personal achievement, as doing things that enrich yourself can provide the biggest benefit to a person's mental state.

  Let's start by stating the obvious. People love celebrating their own achievements in life. Typically people will celebrate for major life events like graduations, finding a new job that pays well, moving into their first house, and a whole littany of other things involving their personal achievements. These celebrations likely wouldn't happen if the person in question wasn't happy about the outcome of their achievements. Happiness comes from progression in your life that leads to a more positive future for onesself. Imagine a world where no one got any happiness or satisfaction from personal achievement. As a society, we would probably not have advanced as much as we have if it weren't for people striving for achievement that would lead them to a happier more fulfilled life.

  There's something satisfying about achieving a personal goal that you've been striving toward for a long period of time. Finishing up a difficult project can bring happiness either in the form of relief that it's finally finished, or in the form of personal satisfaction that you did a good job on it. Marrying the love of your life is also something to consider in this realm. It takes a lot of work and effort to keep a relationship going, and realizing you've found long lasting love and comfort in another person really does a lot for your happiness.

  Some may say that focusing on personal goals isn't as important as focusing on other people's happiness and that is simply an odd way of looking at things. Yes, other people's happiness can affect our own happiness, but it is not the main driver of happiness in an individual. Being a people pleaser can be a huge drain on a person's mental state, financial situation, and other aspects of their personal life. You will get tired of making others happy if you don't prioritize your own personal goals, because all of your effort will be put into other people's happiness. As an individual, you absolutely HAVE to prioritize personal goals over others if you want to be successful and happy with your life.

  To conclude, happiness is something that mainly comes from persuing personal goals and personal development. Other people's happiness can influence your happiness to an extent, but to live a happy and fulfilling life, you have to focus on yourself or else you will burn out from trying too hard to be a people pleaser.
