Dealing with people and interacting with others in a group or work setting can produce an array of feelings and behaviors. Some people are naturally competitive while other people prefer cooperation when dealing with group settings or assignments. The purpose of this assignment is to assess who achieves more success, those who are competitive or those who are cooperative. It is my opinion that those who have a healthy balance of both will turn out more successful, but for the sake of the topic I believe that those who are cooperative are more successful. 

It seems that those who are more competitive tend to look down on people they feel are less successful than them. People who are competive seem not to understand that sometimes both sides can come to an understanding and all involved can experience a level of success. It is my opinion that those who are competitive will resort to cheating, stealing, and lying just to come out on top or be viewed as successful. People who are more willing to cooperate seem to be happier and less stressed which could lead to greater success in their lives. When you work in cooperation with others instead of competiting you do not have to worry about getting ahead first or out-performing others. People who have a cooperative spirit seem to want to cross the finish line holding hands and side-by-side with everyone else. 

Those who think people who are competitive are more successful, think so because of appearances and not because of the character of the person. Competition may create great athletes and business people types but are those people trully more successful. I think it depends on the way you view success. If success is material goods and awards, than those who are competitive may feel more successful. If success is about being happy with the person within and getting satisfaction from seeing other do well and achieve like you do than those who are cooperative are more successful. Cooperation creates more successful people because they are willing to work with people in order to make them more successful as well. They are not likely to be envious or jealous of others success the way people who are competitive would be. People achieve more success with cooperation because they cooperate.
