Looking at some of the most iconic parts of American culture--football, rodeos, highly-ranked educational institutions, and even the Oscars-- it often seems almost entirely built around competition. It is common for politicians to argue that America's wealth and power come from a meritocratic system, fueled by advances that would be impossible without the competitive nature of a capitalist economic system. However, the world at large does not necessarily always see eye-to-eye with the popular American conceptualization of competition as the lifeblood of progress, and neither does the study of history. There is a preponderence of historical evidence, from before the written word to the present day, to support the claim that it is not competition that produces the most beneficial and long-lasting accomplishments, but rather cooperation.
In the earliest days of the anthropocene, human beings lived in societies where there was little to no socioeconomic stratification. The real competition was not amongst humans, but between man and other species. When every day was a fight to survive, cooperation between humans was the most necessary survival tool a community could have, and we would not have survived to see the modern day without it. The birth of civilization was not an individual effort. Long after the beginning of primitive accumulation, even when socioeconomic stratification and land rights began to exist, and even in the feudal era(s), the "great men" of history were never making their discoveries or waging wars entirely alone. Many or all of the most important inventions, decisions and events in history might seem attributable to a single individual, but none of them ever were. The great artists of the Western canon and their academic counterparts would not have been able to write their symphonies or develop modern astronomy without their wives managing their households and finances, and no general would have ever been able to succeed on the battlefield if their mothers had no community to help safely deliver and raise their children. Even success through competition is only possible as a group effort. The advances made through contention could have been made far more efficiently if the middleman was cut out and the task(s) at hand were approached with a collective, collaborative effort. 
In competition, only one side, whether an individual or a group, can win or profit. In a collaborative effort, everyone can. In competition, resources are limited to what either side can hold for themselves away from others. In a cooperative approach to the problem-solving that advances the human condition in the world, neither of these problems exist. Arguments in favor of the merits of competition bring up that wartime brings some of the greatest and fastest technological advancements in known history. However, war needs not to be between humans. We can, together, wage war against the hostile forces of nature, against want and need, against danger and darkness, as a collective. War between humans and humans will always kill more people than a war of humans, all humans, against everything that threatens our existence. 
