Materialism is a subtle yet hard to ignore part of our everyday lives in today's society. We often set our routines and schedules around what we want to purchase or have, such as accepting a less fufilling job over one we are passionate about just so we have a bigger purchasing power and can acquire what we desire. Is materialism worth the sacrifice of our time and happiness though?

As we live our lives, we often tend to forget of that basic impending doom that hangs over our heads: time. While trying to make our existence the most comfortable possible, which is a primal habit that follows us since our very beginning, we mold our lives in ways that allows us to buy and own more things. But this often causes us to sway away from the true meaning of happiness, which is to live an enjoyable and stress-free life.

By always wanting more, we often supress our desire to make a living with something we are passionate about, which is the first major error in the equation of happiness since our job is where we spend the most of our life time at. Then, instead of spending our hard earned income on actual experiences that would otherwise forever be cherished in our mind, we spend it in objects we want for our immediate pleasure, but which are faded to break down overtime or just become boring to us.

Also, when we think of happiness as being a happy and stress-free life, those objects become counterintuitive since just the mere responsability of owning and caring for them becomes a hassle, which often leads to more costs and thus more stress. That is not even considering that when we live among all that clutter, we forget to enjoy the simple yet true experiences of life, and even tend to take them for granted after a while.

Some would argue that materialism actually makes us happier, since we are able to fulfill desires and sometimes make our lives more comfortable with such products, such as in the case of vehicles that will allow us to travel anywhere, devices that will make our communication easier and items that will make our own homes more comfortable to live at.

But at what cost? Is appeasing our immediate pleasure really worth wasting our life away at unfufilling and stressful jobs? Does the hasle of taking care for so many personal belongings counterweighs the simple and pleasurable experiences of life? While we struggle to make more money in order to be able to buy more, we forget that we are also wasting the one currency that everybody already starts with in life: time.
