When people focus on their goals, be it a hobby, poitical agenda, a job or anything the person loves to do, it will make one feel accompolished.

With that said, trying to please others, can also make a person feel happy. For instance, when someone you know is feeling down in the dumps, if you can cheer that person up in any small way, that can make a world of difference in their lives. That in return can make you feel good about yourself, because you will have known you helped someone you care for. Also helping random strangers can be a kind act, such as holding the door open for someone, helping an elderly neighbor clean their home, and even feeding neighborhood animals. It's all about being generous in my view. Even if you don't have a lot. That should be a value everyone follows.

There was a time when I was homeless, and I met another homeless woman. She had a Pitbull with her, and he looked hungry. Because I had a little bit of money in my pocket, I asked her to wait at her camp site. I proceeded to walk to the store and get her some dog food. The woman was very greatful, and it made me very happy to do what I could. Being homeless wasn't the most fun experience, but it taught me to have a heart for others.

I am also a musician. I have been producing for roughly ten years. Whenever anyone writes to me about how a song of mine got them through whatever personal issues they had, that makes me feel great. I barely make any money off music. What's important to me is touching someone's life in a positive way. I told myself that when I started, and I stand by it. Some of the messages I have recieved made me feel as if I've done something good for someone else.

Some people might say that I was stupid to help anyone else when I was destitute, but I believe in being kind towards others. Some might say you have to be selfish to make it in life. This is something I disagree with, because what type of world would we have without the support of others. We live in a capatalistic society, where there is a lot of greed. I feel more compassion is needed in such a cruel world.

I hope my thoughts here could change someones mind for the better. You really just never know what someone else could be going through, and even the smallest action can help. Sometimes just a simple smile can make someone's day.


