What is Happiness?
To me, happiness is a personal attribute. It can only be attained by the actions of ones self. Happiness can be found in many places. It thrives in a variety of settings and a person just has to have the ambition to find it. It may be in hearing a baby laugh, seeing the smile of a happy child or holding the hand of an elderly person for a few short moments.

My happiness is derived from many things. A seed that has been planted is now a blooming azalea. My parrot saying hello to me in the morning. A family member calling to say I love you. Part of my happiness is writing this essay. It is making me examine all the good in my life, things I have taken granted for, expecting these pleasures on a daily basis. Instead, it makes me wonder what I would feel without these little pleasures I have gotten used to in my life. 

Some persons will never find thier true happiness because they have never experienced happiness inside themselves. To be truly happy we must start with our inner beings. If we find fault with each trivial little thing then we will find fault with all the larger things in our lives, leading to a very unhappy being. This person will never be happy unless they open thier hearts and minds to all the beauty that surrounds them. It may be the ocean waves, a bird singing or just a neighbor waving hello. 

Those that we believe are not happy individuals most probably feel they have never experienced anything to be happy about. Perhaps a bad childhood was experienced and hardened thier hearts. However, with a little bit of kindness on our part will help heal the scars left by injustices to those individuals. As we grow into adults and the beings that we individually are we can change from being cranky unhappy unhealthy persons. With no happiness in our lives, we truly are unhealthy. 

Once we open our hearts and minds to the welfare not only of ourseves but others as well, happiness will happen. It will happen automatically and magically. It is an awsome thing, an asset that cannot be bought with money and an asset that is available to everyone. 

Happiness cannot be compromised. It is or it is not. Only we as individuals can make it happen, either for ourselves or for others, it truly does not matter either way. If we make others happy we make ourselves happy or if we open the door if others are happy then we can enter that world and be happy ourselves. 

Happiness is a wonderful world to live in. It thrives on honesty, integrity and morals. A smile goes a long way and lasts a long time. It is truly a sign of happiness. 

My personal happiness involves the happiness of others, how even the tiniest of gestures makes another smile and I know they will have a good day. The smallest gesture of others towards me that make me smile starts my day with a small glint of happiness, which will continue to grow through the rest of the day for me. 

My conclusion is this: If you have never experienced happiness, it is not to0 late to give it a try. Go find it, you will be pleasantly surprised since I truly believe we all have the opportunity to find it, with a little effort happiness you find you!


