Both competition and cooperation have important places in our personal lives and in society. However, competition often focuses only on the individual or on an in-group, and as such, can be harmful to society as a whole. Competition drives the spark of ingenuity and motivation, but cooperation is necessary to provide the stability that is necessary to realize most major accomplishments.

Human evolution has produced a competitive species that isn't comfortable admitting its dependence upon societal cooperation. Many Americans tout their life achievements as having occured solely due to their own hard work and grit. This claim is an example of competition and illustrates their perspective that they succeeded in the competition of life as a direct result of their own efforts and nothing else. However, when viewed objectively, most of these claims discount the amount of support they received along the way. Cooperation, rather than competition, set them up for success. Unrecognized or unacknowledged cooperation from others quite often provides the basis for the stability that successful individuals enjoy that allows them the mental and emotional freedom to invest their time and energy into competitive endeavors. Without this unacknowledged support, a large number of these people would never have gotten where they are. Failsafes such as stability in housing, family to cheer them on or bail them out when things get financially challenging, free or highly reduced-price childcare from family members and friends, a good education paid for partially or in whole by others, good health insurance, reliable transporatation and access to food, reliable help with the logistics of life, and a myriad of other things all contribute to an individual's success. Their achievements are not soley their own efforts. They are a result of the ability to focus their efforts based on their mental, emotional, and financial needs being met. When these needs are not met, attention, ability, and focus are split, and high achievement is substantially harder to accomplish. 

Cooperation benefits the individual in ways that many successful people refuse to acknowledge because it steals their thunder and reduces their view of themselves having realiz the American dream through hard work and grit. But they don't see that their ability to compete and win was often highly contingent upon the cooperation from others that they took for granted. Competition has a place, and is definitely valuable in the progression of a person's achievements personally and the progression of society as a whole. But we cannot have the mental, emotional, and financial space to realize it properly without the framework of stability that is provided by mutual cooperation in basic areas of life. 
