What is happiness?  To a child, happiness could be getting that new toy they have been asking for for over a month.  To an adult, happiness could be attending a loved ones wedding.  To another adult, happiness could be seeing someone a person loves finally achieve a goal that they have been working so hard on.
The question at hand is wheter or not people are more likle to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others.  The easiest and probably for some people they would consider the answer a no brainer to be if they focus on their own happiness.  Some might argue that you cant put others happiness before you own.  That is a saying that people use during general conversations with people.  
Looking at what some might consider the obvious answer, people are more happy if they focus on their personal goals.  Why would a person be more happy when others are happy and chose to see that rather than their own self succeed?  As a mother, seeing my children happy makes me feel good inside.  I put my children first.  If I want to go running because I am trying to meet my weight loss goal but my children nee my help with a school project or just want me to play a board game with them, I will always chose the children because seeing my loved ones happy is what makes me whole.  
My opionion changes when its not the happiness of family.  I am more happy when Im healthy.  I would not set my personal goals aside for the happiness of anyone other than family. If a poll was done on 100 people with children I would have to believe that parents would agree with my sttaements that the hapiness of our family comes before our own.
The question is why though?  Why do we put a sisters happiness before our own?  Why does our brain make those choices?  Would I feel the same if my best friend complained to me that she was not able to save for a family vacation for her kids because she is constantly helping her sister pay her bills so she can keep custody of her children.  How is her case any different?  In my mind, I would tell my friend that her family vacation should come first before paying her sisters views.  So in that instance I basically contradict what my personal choice would be.  I said family comes first but would I help my sister over saving for a family vacation?
Making people happy makes people feel good inside.  Reaching attainable goals that we set for ourselves also makes us feel complete.  The reality is that every situation will be different.  You might feel obligated in different circumstances to change your natual response making myself happy should come before others happiness. 
All people have the ability to make theirself happy by setting achieveable goals and at the same time they came make others happy too.  The key is that the more time focused on one area, wheter it be a goal or someone else's happiness, that is where the results will show the most.  
Time is a part of happiness.  To reach a goal a person needs time.  To make others happy, a person needs time.  You could make a child happy by taking 10 minutes before bed to read them a book, where your own goal maybe takes days, months or even years to reach.  In that instance making someone else happy keeps you happy while your waiitng for your own happiness.  Females seem to try and make people happy more than men do.  As mothers, our job is to keep your children happy.  In my opinion men are more self centered and therefor would focus on theirself and their own happiness than per say the happiness of their friends.  
Lastly, there are some people that you cannot make happy no matter how hard you try.  Even if they have all the money in the word and have met all of their personal goals, they still are not happy.  Those are usually the individuals who focus more on the happiness of others because they find happiness through seeing others smile.  There is no right or wrong answer and everyone is entitled to their own opinion.  I personal feel that more people are likley to be happy by focusing on their personal goals but then there are people who think meeting a goal is going to make them happy and then they meet the goal and they are still not happy.
Happiness comes from within.  It comes from acts of kindness.  Happiness comes from love, friends and families.  Happiness can be spontaneous and unwanted but when it arrives, it is one of the best feelings besides love that humans know.  You can always try to give happiness and make it happen but its never guaranteed that it will be reciprocated back.  Individuality is what it all boils down to.  You cant buy happiness, it just comes from within.   
