Being happy is what many people strive for in life.  Happiness is a gift that can be shared with everyone; but how do you find it? Some people believe that happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others.  Other people believe that happiness comes internally from focusing on their own personal goals.  I believe that happiness is best obtained by focusing on your own goals before anything else or prioritizing others happiness.  Happiness is best obtained by focusing on your own goals because your happiness starts with you finding peace and happiness with your own self.  Once you are happy yourself, it is much easier to focus on the happiness of others and therefore spread happiness.  

Many people have heard of the airplane warning "put your mask on before helping others" - this advice is a great analogy of happiness.  You cannot help other people be happy unless you are happy yourself.  Think about happiness in your day-to-day life, it is a lot easier to help others be happy when you are happy yourself.  If you are in a sad mood, imagine trying to make someone else happy.  It is quite hard, isn't it?  Another reason that happiness is easier when you focus on yourself first is because of the concept of self-acceptance.  Everyone in life has flaws, everyone has something they want to do better with.  One cannot really be truly happy unless they accept themselves.  Happiness is not something you can buy at the store; it must be found internally.  Only once we are truly happy with ourselves can our happiness be broadcast to others.

While the happiness of others is important, it is not what really makes people happy.  Prioritizing others is a good approach to many things in life, but if you are not happy yourself how can you prioritize the happiness of others.  That is why it is more important to focus on your internal goals and your own happiness before you can help others.  

Happiness is the greatest feeling in the world.  Everything is great, things are working out in your favor.  Happiness can come from many sources, but true happiness comes from focusing on your own goals.  Only when you are happy with yourself can you share that happiness with others.  The ultimate happiness comes internally.  
