Modern society is fixated on the idea of success, and we spend our entire lives trying to attain it. Yet the path to success isn't always clear or obvious, and there are several schools of thought regarding how we may get there. Two of the most prominent and seemingly conflicted approaches are "The Power of Competition" and "The Power of Cooperation". Yet, are they really in as much opposition as they initially appear to be? I would suggest that the most success can be achieved not by following one path as opposed to the other, but walking both paths equally and simultaneously.

Healthy competition can drive us forward, and a compeitive nature is certainly an asset for achieving success. Pushed to extremes, however, and we run the risk of feeling hopeless at every loss, angry at our rivals victories, and consumed by senseless emotion that only serves to hold us back. On the other hand, humankind has survived, evolved, and flourished by coming together to accomplish tasks far greater than one person could ever hope to do by themselves. Ponder the quote, "No man is an island", which suggest it is essentially impossible to exist solely by and for oneself. Yet, if we are always content to collaborate, we risk ceding the greatest achievement to the members of the group with the stronger aspirations.

The question of "competition or collaboration" brings to mind great rivalries in Japanese anime stories, such as the feud betweek Goku and Vegeta in Dragon Ball. Both men lived to outdo the other and be the best they could be, yet whenever a threat greater than one man arose they were willing to work together to overcome it. Over the course of the story, Vegeta in particular became more accepting of collaboration, beginning as someone who lived only to compete. Yet, he did not "give up" his competitive spirit, he simply learned when to put it aside temporarily to adopt a more effective mindset (collaboration) for a given task.

The world has changed significantly over the past several decades, and is more interconnected than ever before. Solely competing and being unwilling to work together may not work in the internet age of referals and recommendations - but did it ever? We evolved as hunter/gatherers, reliant on our group for safety and survival. Perhaps to a caveman, survival and success were synonymous, but the thinking man yearns for more than simply continuing to exist.

While there are clearly strong arguments in favor of and against cooperation and competition, each has a fatal flaw that renders them equally ineffective alone: rigitity. The nature and greatest strength of humans is that we are adaptable, and using that strength to be fluid and willing to choose the correct tool for the job we face is what will lead any of us the farthest up the ladder of success. Pure cooperation and pure competition share the same weakness. They are each incomplete without the other, and lead to the same ceiling that is impossible to break through without occasionally employing the other.
