"...I'm a material girl living in a material world..." This lyric has succinctly summed up just how materialistic our modern society has become. It's not just the music though, every commerical we consume, every ad that pops up, and every single where we look in our society there's always the want for more, more, more. Not only does it blanket much of the modern free world, it pervades us in such a way that it's traces are almost glaringly bright to those who don't have such marketing targeted at them. Our society needs to be condemned for it's view on materialism, not glorified for it.

In a consumer driven society such as ours it seems that much of everybody's main goal is simply to have "more stuff." It doesn't matter if it's good stuff, bad stuff, needed stuff, or plain garbabge. No matter what we want more and we want it right now. This has not only driven the cost of all average goods up, but simultaneously driving the quality down. Corporations are no longer concerned if their product will withstand the test of time, because they already know that if it's older than 5 years to keep up appearances people will want another one. Even if the product that they're replacing is still in perfectly good conditions. Materialism has been a main driving force in forcing poor product quality to be the standard for our modern society. Poor product quality leads to an overconsumption of an item, which also leads to more trash in landfills, which drives down how positively we impact the environment, as well as using up even more of the already limited resources that we find ourselves facing these days.

The need for always wanting more ultimately will lead to devastation in our world. No one will cherish the items that they have because no matter what it's replaceable, this attitude will surely present itself, not only in the way that we treat our materials, but also in the way that we treat each other. Humans will become expendable, simply because, just like in our materialistic society, there will always be more.

Society should absolutely be not only criticized, but condemned, for the materialistic way that everything is viewed. It drives up prices, while driving down quality. It seeps into the very core of who we are and causes us to be even less towards one another. 
