     Images and impressions of well known figures can have a large impact on people regardless of whether those figures are competent or not.  People may enjoy someone who gives a nice speech but that person may be terrible at actually doing his or her job.  Some entertainers may be used in ads that give very little information about a product but people end up buying the product anyway.  The impressions these figures give to people may impact advertising, sway votes, or even have people turn a blind eye to bad behavior.
     Many companies will choose to use well known actors, singers, etc, in order to advertise their products.  Recently, there has been a trend in advertising in which the ad tells a story with the well known figure but gives little information about the product.  Sometimes a viewer may not even know what the ad is for until the last second.  If companies use a favorite actor or singer to advertise their product, then people may be more likely to buy the product despite the scarcity of information.  For example, AMC chose to use Nicole Kidman in their ads to get people back into their theaters.  The ad was told in a more story like format and seemed to solely rely on the fact that people know who Nicole Kidman is.
   Secondly, politicians can sway votes based on their likeability alone.  There are many politicians today that do not do a great job and yet they still get voted into office.  Often, their personality, the power of their speeches, or their political party may be the reasons they get voted into office.  One example of a politician who gets little done is Ted Cruz.  Other than obstructing bills, he doesn't do much in office and yet he still get elected.  It is likely that he gets into office based off of his political party and the fact that he has been a well known politician for a while.  People may be choosing to vote for him because he is familiar.  It doesn't seem to matter what his abilities as a politician are like.
  Finally, people tend to turn a blind eye to bad behavior based on whether they like a well known figure or not.  Many well known figures have committed crimes like assault, rape, theft, etc.  Other well known figures are misogynists, racists, homophobic, transphobic, etc.  Quite a few of these people still have followings because people choose to ignore the truth or argue that other people are lying.  They do not want to face the facts that will tarnish one of their favorite people.  One example is how J.K. Rowling is still accepted by many people despite being transphobic.  She is still involved with movies and many people still support her by buying her books.  Her history as a beloved author blinds people to the hate that she spews against trans people.
  Overall, the impressions and reputations that well known figures have can have people turn a blind eye to their actions or the products that they support.  Appearances matter more to people when it comes to a public figure they really like.  Whether these public figures are politicians, actors, singers, authors, or some other famous person, people may choose to see what they want to see as opposed to the truth.
