Happiness. Is it truly attainable? The definition varies from person to person, and you will find that each experience with the emotion is different depending on life experiences, satisfaction, and other aspects of the human psyche. Some argue that happiness comes from giving to others, and fulfilling their needs above your own. Others argue that it is a matter of self-satisfaction and hard work. The truth is that happiness comes from within. A person can only truly attain happiness if they are happy with themself and have learned to put themself first.

In life, it's important to be your own lover. Treat yourself with care. Happiness comes from appreciating your own worth and witnessing the values you bring to the table. Whether this happiness comes from graduating school, having a successful career, or even from the little things - taking a bubble bath, or lighting your favorite candle, it is an emotion that everybody feels, but only if they feel they deserve it. To feel happiness, and to be satisfied with who you are and how your life has turned out, you must first know that this is a feeling that every human is deserving of. Pursuing your own passions and exploring yourself, and surrounding yourself with positive reinforcement are the best ways to find happiness. 

Some may argue that happiness is based around the happiness of your surrounding peers. This is not true. To experience happiness based on others is a selfless ploy. Even if people are happy making others happy, the positive emotions gained are simply a result of self-satisfaction and righteousness. Nobody likes to admit it, but people make others happy solely because it feels good to do so. The act in itself makes people happy. How many people are made happy by the happiness of others? How many people are passed over, their struggles unknown and uncared for, when a stranger could change the course of their lives any minute? If making others happy was the true source of a person's happiness, why do we allow suffering? Why do we cause others to suffer? Because it makes us happy. Whether out of comtempt, pettiness, or vengeance, people are prey to other people. Murderers, rapists, thieves. Their happiness is based on the suffering of common people. And even common people find themselves commiting small crimes at the expense of others. Shoplifting and cheating, for example. 

Basing your own happiness on the happiness of others is a destructive practice that can lead people down dark paths. If making other people happy was the only motivation of the human race, there would be no more wars, no more arguments, and no more suffering. But that's not the case. People are made happy by pursuing their own interests, and this is proven by the amount of wrongdoing at the expense of others in the world. If it means trampling on others, a person will do it. If it means lying, a person will do it. People do bad things, commit crimes, for the purpose of their own happiness, not for others. And people do good things for the purpose of their own happiness as well, as mentioned earlier. 
