     What you see is not always what you get.  We are bombarded with images that seek to attract our attention and capture our dollars and cents. It is well known that text without images does not sell.  Celebrity worship is alive and well with the ability to follow them via social media and online gossip sites and product endorsements. 

     From an early age, we are subject to flashy, colorful and clever images hoping to influence our actions. Companies must employ strong visual media personnel in order to compete. Super Bowl ads are a perfect example of how companies spend a lot of their advertising budget in order to attract the attention of viewers for literally - seconds.  Repetition of images is also frequently used for this purpose. We begin to recognize repeated logos, motifs and images and can be impacted as a result. We are programmed that way. Repeated images feel 'familiar' and we place more trust in the products, celebrities that endorse them and services that they represent. The impact is most stark with children who clamor for the cartoon and movie character items for their clothing, backpacks and birthday parties.

     On the other hand, are we so inundated with images that promote and sell that we begin to ignore them over time? Perhaps, but the recognition of familiar logos and their sometimes nostalgic connections makes that difficult. A market for that nostalgia engages people. Baby boomers and the revue concerts and tribute bands  popularity is another example of how engrained our connection is. The many and varied places we are presented with images and impressions makes them hard to avoid unless your television, smart phone and social media are not functioning by choice or malfunction.

     These are the times we live in. While the selling of products via endorsements has been around a long, long time the sheer amount is of concern. The necessity for information literacy is clear. We must help our youngest members of society to learn skills to understand and discern the selling aspects of the images that invade and saturate their lives. 



