While working as a hospital chaplain, I  come across many patients on many different floors. Each of these rooms are different worlds. Even though there are many of these different worlds, these patients each have their own stories. Oftentimes patients teach me several different things during our visits. This past Wednesday, I met a gentleman named Rick who told me his life story. While telling me the twists and turns of his upbringing, his family, his successes and failures, Rick told me something that I will never forget. He told me that he found happiness by helping others. With this said, I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others by sharing it together.

First, I believe we find happiness by focusing on the happiness of others is that we can share it with others.  I believe that by being present with others in their lives, their families, and their welfare all of us can find happiness along the way. We can cry with others when they cry. We can laugh when they laugh. We can jump for joy when they jump for joy. All while doing life's simplist tasks and duties, together we can find happiness together and we can all do this by not focusing on ourselves, but by focusing on others. Then, we can all share this happiness together. Rick found happiness when he was able to share his talents with students at church. He was not seeking out his own happiness, but he was giving happiness to others through his talents. They found happiness, and, in return, Rick also found happiness. Rick and his students shared happiness together.

Second, I find that people seeking out happiness by themselves can be detrimental. My grandfather said that finding happiness is like finding a treasure. Most seek out the treasure by trying to obtain a map of knowledge or by following a prescription given by others. For those who find this map, they must also seek out the treasure. Oftentimes, when seeking out this treasure, they throw out portions of their lives. They disregard their health, sacrifice their families, and are not attentive for their children. When they finally find the treasure, they cannot enjoy it because they have thrown out so many portions of their lives. They are unhappy because they can share their happiness with no one.

In conclusion, we find happiness by seeking out happiness for others. By focusing on the happiness of others, we find happiness for ourselves much in the same way Rick found happiness when teaching his students. Then we can share happiness together. We can try to find happiness through our own personal goals; however, we may end up sacrificing too much in our lives, and when we find this treasure, we will have no one to share it with. 


