Today's world of social media throws everyone's success in the forefront. This can severely affect someone's own happiness when comparing themselves to others. People need to focus on their own personal goals to be happy. They cannot focus on the happiness of others to be happy. 

Social media is everywhere.  One can choose to post whatever they want.  While some people will post grievances or displeasures, often one will find pictures of peoples' adventures, experiences, and positive news. It has been shown the postings of positive information significantly outnumbers the posts of negative posts.  One cannot base their happiness comparing themselves to others, because we don't know the entire story of someone. You can compare yourself to someone on Facebook, and it will make you less happy because you weren't able to go on vacation, or get the latest iPhone, or go on a shopping spree.  In reality, this person may not be happy themselves, but is hiding their true emotions behind happy posts on social media. Or they may be harming their long term goals to appear more successful to others.  For example. someone may be so focues on buying new clothes and going to the hottest clubs, they are building debt just to look impressive on social media.  They become unhappy due to the struggle of paying bills, and not getting the "likes" on Facebook they were striving for to be like the top influencers.  If we focus on others' happiness, we are often basing our own goals on a false pretense. 

We need to focus on our own personal goals.  We are all individuals.  What one person may like will be completely different than others.  If we focus on what makes us happy, whether it is exercise, pets, family, or something else, we can set goals and build upon those items to make us happy. If we are getting into running, it will make us happy if we set and reach a goal to run a 5k.  If we focus on the people who are running marathons and are happy from those accomplishments, we could get down on ourselves by setting a goal too high.  We could use others' goals to motivate us, such as this person ran a marathon, so I am going to go for a run at my own pace. Ultimately, it is up to us to be responsible for our own happiness. 

Some people may focus their happiness on the improvement of others or society as a whole.  While it is good to be happy for others' success, we cannot rely on this as our main source of happiness, as it is often something out of our control. Climate change is a hot topic.  We can feel good if we recycle or plant a tree to help the Earth, but if we focus on climate change as a whole, we can become distraught when we see others littering, or fires, or other things that suggest our small contributions may not be making a difference.  We can try to help others see the benefits in planting trees, but the issue is so large that it is often out of our hands, and is reliant on society to make a difference.  We can get frustrated, and may give up on those goals because others aren't doing their part. 

In conclusion, we are responsible for our own happiness.  We should celebrate others' successes, and use that to help motivate us to reach our own goals and be our best, but we are responsible for our own lives.  If we focus on our goals and the life we are living, we can make positive changes which will make us happy. 
