What would be your answer if I asked you where true happiness comes from? You might be tempted to say fulfilling your goals, being successful, or even making yourself your number one priority. I think true happiness and fulfillment comes from spreading it, giving as much to others as you possibly can.  

Many people have tunnel vision on their own successes. They look out for themselves and along the way forget the need for genuine connection. There's no better way to do that than by going out of your way to help someone - whether it be by being there for someone in a time of need, surprising someone with something nice, or doing something like community service to enrich the lives of others. Personal successes still have meaning, but giving happiness to others creates unmatched fulfillment. When it comes down to it - when the people around you are happy, you tend to be happy as well. 

Some people may say the only person who will be truly there for you throughout your life is yourself - so it's better to focus on your own happiness. This couldn't be further from the truth. Humans have a need for connection to others, and if we just looked out for ourselves this wouldn't be possible as we would be viewed as selfish. Others may claim it's not possible to give others happiness unless we are happy ourselves. This is also not true. Some of the people in the worst spots have hearts of gold and wouldn't hesitate to help out in a moment's notice. People who know what struggle feels like generally don't want others to go through similar experiences, and will help others to not have to feel that struggle, in turn giving them fulfillment and happiness.

It may seem counterproductive to some to focus on others' happiness instead of our own. I view it as a circle. We start unhappy, we focus on others' happiness, we get fulfillment from the good deed, in turn making us happy. If the many people of the world were less focused on their personal successes and more focused on the successes and well being of the world as a whole, there wouldn't be such a strong desire to focus on ourselves so much in the first place. After all, when everyone around you is happy, it's hard not to be. It tends to be infectious. It may seem simple or even corny, but in a species where connection is nearly necessary, others' happiness is all of our happiness.


