Have you ever wondered how the beating heart of our world is able to function? Trillions of ltasks great and small need to be performed for any society to function like a well-oiled machine. Without cooperation, such a complex society wouldn't be possible.  Cooperation enables incredibly complex systems to be organized, with incentives for prosocial (benefitting the society) behavior that line up with human and animal nature. While some would argue that competition is the natural order of things (perhaps even among the animal kingdom), animal species that utilize cooperation have seen greater evolutionary success.

By far the strongest argument in favor of cooperation can be found in the real world. If one assumes that most humans will act in favor of their best interest (as those who advocate for competition seem to do), much of our modern human society simply does not make sense. Why, for instance, do many (if not most) people properly put their shopping cart back in the shopping corral? Not out of any sense of economic best interest, since one could theoretically make money in the time it takes to put up the cart. Societal pressure certainly plays a part in this phenomena, but I would argue that a far greater motivation is our evolutionary drive to cooperate. At the end of the day, humans want to see their own society prosper, and we are evolutionarily hardwired to do that through cooperation. Even if competition would be able to create a functioning society, the downsides of going against our biological imperatives (namely that it would be quite difficult) almost certainly far outweigh the benefits.

A common argument against cooperation is made from a similar angle; namely that in the animal kingdom, the animals that have a competitive society seem to be the most successful. While this is perhaps true from a pure number of specimens (bacteria are inherently competitive and make up a much greater number of organisms than more complex species), one can see an incredibly clear correlation between species complexity and propensity to cooperate. Think, for instance, of predator animals. While there are some exceptions, the vast majority of these incredibly complex animals organize in packs. Cooperative hunting allows predator animals to have a much more stable supply of food, provide for their young, and stay safe from rivals. While prey animals tend to be slightly less complex than predator animals, and thus predisposed against gregarity, a striking number of examples of cooperative societies can be seen at all levels of the food chain. Herds of deer and horses, flocks of sheep, murders of crows, hives of bees, nests of ants, and even colonies of barnacles and bacteria. Even in human societies, cooperative societies see a much greater degree of success than competitive ones. Humans have built great wonders of engineering, requiring crews of thousands of workers to work together. If each worker does not look out for the safety both of themselves and their colleagues, the endeavor will inevitably fail. Turning cooperative enterprises into competitive ones has historically led to uncountable amounts of suffering (I.E, the US healthcare industry). 


Time has proven again and again that cooperative endeavors are more successful than competitive ones. Whether looking at nature, observing the evolutionary success of gregarious organisms, or to the human realm, observing the economic and societal success of civilizations that emphasize cooperation over competition, one can clearly see this near-universal fact. historically, an emphasis on competition, while leading perhaps to some short-term gains, always hurts a society. For these reasons, I firmly believe in a society that stands together, not a society that is constantly tearing at each others' throats. 
