People are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others as opposed to their own personal goals. Though in our society we often believe that the pursuit of happiness involves focusing on our own desires, this is counter-productive. In fact, chasing too hard after one's own desires can lead to the opposite of happiness: depression and despair. It may seem counter-intuitive, but helping others is often how we end up helping ourselves.

As humans, we are wired to be pro-social, meaning that we are genetically programmed to help others and cooperate. From an evolutionary perspective, this was necessary to promote community bonds for survival. We have mirror neurons that light up when we see other people express emotions. For instance, when we see someone who is happy, we also feel happiness. The same is true when we see someone in distress or pain. This is true even if we do not personally know the person in question. We can not help but be intertwined with others; our fates are inseparable. Your sorrows are my sorrows, and your joys are my joys.

Many will argue that focusing on personal happiness is the most direct route to finding joy. However, if that were true, billionaires and celebrities would be the happiest people on Earth. We know from history that those who are most successful at acquiring money and power are often miserable. Many people who have dedicated their lives to the pursuit of pleasure become so depressed that they turn to substances for comfort or even take their own lives. On the other hand, pro-social behavior promotes happiness as well as social cohesion. People are happiest when they have strong social bonds in their lives. While it is important to focus on self-care at times, it is also important to remember that caring for others is crucial to our own well-being.

Given the evidence, it is clear that if we want to be happy, we should look first to ensuring the happiness of those around us. It is a lesson that we would all be wise to keep in mind. If we fail to give happiness to others, we may find that we hav enone left for ourselves at the end of the day.
