Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition?

When looking at individual growth, people achieve more through competition, but when looking at the success of an organization, greater success is achieved through cooperation. Education tells us each individual is unique in their learning style and abilities. A student is most suceessful if they compete with themselves and strive to be better than they were coming in. Often looking at the achievements of other students provides a sense of motivation and assures the task is doeable. On the other hand, the success of an organization depends on accessing and maximizing the company's talent pool to get the best results. Here cooperatioin amongst individuals of various talents, results in greater success for the organization.

One might be tempted to think competiton between individuals results in greater success. This only works if individuals already have the same skill set. In this case, through competition with others, individuals see the extent to which they can improve and maximize their skill. This is the point where an individual now needs to reflect personally and gage how they can improve their own skill to be better than they were before. As they improve their individual skills, they will also improve their success competing against others.

When looking at the health of an organization, it is important to awknowledge individual talents, skill sets and the time it takes to do things well. For the best outcome, individuals should be allowed to work on the areas of the project that match their skill set. While I may be great at analyzing data, someone else may have better presentation skills or might be really good with asthetics. I may in fact be really good at presenting or asthetics, but I may also want to consider tha amount of time it would take to have one person do all aspects of the project well. Here it doesn't make sense to have individuals competing against each other, success of the project in terms of quality and efficency will increase if a dream team can be constructed to collaborate.

If you are looking for a way to increase individual productivity, competition has a role to play. Yet I would caution anyone that the path to success is to compete with yourself. Strive to be better than you were yesterday and you will be even better tomorrow. For organizations, cooperation and collaboration is the sure tool for success, maximize your talent pool and allow individuals to thrive within their skill set.
