Images and impressions have become more valued than substance in today's society. Advertisements have been around for hundreds of years, but only recently have we started to apply the principles of advertisement to ourselves. Flashiness and novelty have become more important than substance and reliability. The constant chase for viral content and memorability have surpassed the need for constancy. Overconsumption, then, becomes the norm and the way we think about ourselves and our environment changes from appreciation to insatiability. 

In the age of the internet, consumers' attention spans have continually decreased. No longer is the quality of the product the most important factor in purchase decisions; brand recognition has taken over. Advertising teams work very carefully to find their niche. Perhaps they are comical and approachable, like Progressive Insurance. They might be shocking or absurd, like Old Spice. Some opt for a "kind vibe," eco-friendly persona, such as Fiji Water. Brands want to imprint their image into consumers' minds like a character in each person's life. If someone chooses to drink Fiji Water, it is because they align with the personality traits of being eco-friendly and zen. One's purchases reflect on their character. 

When it comes to social media, people have begun marketing themselves in similar ways. A person's Instagram, for example, must be an accurate reflection of their brand. With each post, one must decide who they are going to be. We curate and market ourselves with as much attention to detail as professional advertising teams. It is artifice, it is projection. It's a sales pitch and the product is ourselves. We are vying for the most social capital. 

Some might argue that branding yourself is a way of figuring out who you are and the purpose you are meant to serve. It is an extension of yourself, rather than a marketing ploy. Politicians and entertainers can use marketing techniques in their social media as a way to introduce themselves to their audience. Here is a way for me to connect with you while having total and complete control over your perception of me. I can be exact about the message I want to send. Since they are looking for support and an audience, approaching social media like an advertisement makes sense. The problem arises when normal folk use the same platform. Celebrities have always held influence, and if us laypeople are given the same exact tools as they are to express ourselves, of course we will want to use those tools the way they do! But we are not celebrities and it doesn't make sense for us to market ourselves to our followers the way they do. If we become obsessed with how we are being perceived and if people are buying into our image, we lose sight of our actual lived experiences. We, unlike celebrities and politicians, are not products. 

In conclusion, Western culture's obsession with image and novelty is incredibly detrimental to the lived experience of people online. Life has become a vessel for content. Because of ruthless marketing strategies and dwindling attention spans, brands have resorted to prioritizing virality over providing quality products. The same concept has trickled down to the influencer class and will continue to trickle down to the rest of the population. Everyone views themselves, then, through the lens of the consumer. We live in a capitalist society which prioritizes consumption and promotes the idea that one must always be wanting more. Therefore, images and impressions will always be taken more seriously than substance, and this is horrible for self esteem. 
