Cooperation vs Competition is the topic at hand and is an age-old competition in and of itself. I believe that is true simply because people have differing opinions on this subject and will often argue, in other words compete, for the correct position on the subject. I, personally, believe cooperation is the better approach to solving problems and finishing tasks and will try to explain why in this essay. 

In the case of cooperation, people are working together to achieve an end result so two or more minds are bringing ideas and skills to the table. In my opinion, it's always best to have as much information and talent as possible and it's always likely someone else will know as much or more about a topic than I do. I want to know what they know, what they can do and how they proceed, so I can make a better decision and achieve a better outcome. For instance, I may believe I know a method for achieving the best design scheme for a given indoor space while someone else may have a totally different approach. Perhaps theirs is more efficient or perhaps mine is, but I believe by working together we can approach all ideas, achieve a solution everyone can be happy with and everyone may learn something new in the process. In the case of interior design, we may even create a fresh, new look which will appeal to a wide audience. This is why I don't like to remain fixed in my own ideas or compete with someone else to prove my ideas are best. 

On the other hand, people may say that the person with the most experience, better skill set or proven success should be the one making decisions. Perhaps they would even say there's no point in wasting time and resources trying to prove otherwise by working together. Just allow the more experienced and skilled to "win" and shine in order to quickly achieve a satisfactory outcome. And, this may be true in some cases, but my experience has not taught me that's true in all cases. Everyone has something to offer, and competing for the right to have my idea overshadow that of someone else can actually have the effect of overshadowing an entire project. People want to be seen and heard. They want their ideas, actions and skills to matter, and for someone stronger to simply push their ideas to the top can have the effect of dampening creativity, free thought and action. Afterall, why bother trying when you know someone "stronger" is in the competition? Many people simply give up in the face of those odds and, if that happens, their possibly brilliant ideas and growing skills are lost. The impact that has on all other possible outcomes, not to mention their psyche when they "lose", is not worth the competition.

So, again, I offer the idea that cooperation is the better approach because it is the choice which allows all able bodied and minded individuals to provide ideas and strive for excellence. Ideas and skills, when combined with the ideas and skills of others, can make monumental change in just about any topic while providing a platform for personal growth in the process. 
