The idea that specifically constructed images and impressions are too prevalent in our world is certainly concerning. Although the idea of obtaining perfection is not new to society, it does seem to have reached levels that are alarming and detrimental. This certainly impacts the idea that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.
Many studies have been done on the effects of advertising and subtle persuasion and how these can alter human preferences. At some point it could even be argued that free will is being removed if we are being bombarded with these images and ideas without actively seeking them out. People will gravitate towards fashion or makeup trends based on what celebrities are promoting, and will even go so far as to surgically alter themselves to obtain a specific look. When taken to these extremes, it's easy to see that these images and impressions are taking too much of a toll. There's also the concern of appearances giving a completely inaccurate depicition of something. Life should involve some healthy skepticism but when impressions reach the point of being actively deceptive, that crosses the line into a flat out lie. It begs the question: How far is too far? And when and who will hold these companies and people accountable if it helps their own bottom line? And most importantly, how do these issues effect more vulnerable populations that may not have the education or resources to independently verify the validity?
On the contrary, one could argue that no person is physically being forced to buy or subscribe to the ideas we're being shown. An important piece of our culture is tied into marketing and the economy and as humans we all have our own independent preferences that simply don't change, regardless of what we're funneled towards. Part of the human condition needs to involve personal responsibility, research, and being skeptical of things that seem too good to be true. 
Despite this counterpoint, not everyone has the skepticism and critical thinking to see through the smoke and mirrors. At some point, the media and corporations need to draw a line at how ethical it is to force false narratives on people and how it can be exploitive. 
