Under the hierarchical structure of our society, competition is promoted amongst its citizens. For many, this can often lead to pain and strife, others wallow in their sorrow and envy at the success of others around them. While competition certainly has its uses, is it truly the way toward a brighter future?

Human beings are a social creature, this much is evidenced almost entirely by our history of success amongst the animal kingdom. Without speed, strength, or sharp teeth and claws, we still became the apex predator of the world at large. How did we do this? We cooperated, we came together as a species. From our humble beginnings as hunter-gatherer societies, we blossomed forth villages and developed agriculture. We brought life to barren soil, and from that life, we expanded. Forward and forward we marched through the lands, taming the wilderness, specializing more and more. The breadmaker spends his time making bread so the farmer can tend to his crops of wheat, and the butcher prepares and preserves the meat while the hunter hunts. Soon we built great cities, specialising even more. Through a vast interconnected society our cooperation brough forth the modern age's marvel. Leisure time. A thousand years ago, something unthinkable, but today, it's become an expectation. In the past, a human would wake, work through the day, and sleep when his working day was done, repeating the process anew when the sun rose the next morning. 

And I know what some would say, this is not the result of cooperation, but of competition. That every advancement we've made is built on the bedrock of some great mind, some inventor, some mogul. But lo I say unto you, it is only the fool who believes in a self-made man. The first great minds first breathed knowledge into the human mind off the labor of the common man, eating, drinking, yes, surviving off of his genorosity. A great mind flourishes in a cooperative environment, allowing him or her to focus on their work, unfettered by the pain of starvation, in a building molded by the clay that is the common man. Yes, we stand on the shoulders of giants, but those giants only grew to such heights with the help of their society. An oil baron transports his crude along highways, paid for by all. He builds his derricks on land charted by those who sought a better life. And the wells spring to life only with the blood of his workers. 

We are a social creature. This much is certain. An unchanging, unrelenting fact of our existence. What have we truly gained from competition? Bombs. Guns. Bullets. Mass death and slaughter. Conquest built on a viscious, ignorant, race consciousness. He that walks a path alone, isolated, self-righteous, he is a man that will die alone, without purpose, without ambition, and without legacy. We are the final evolution of this existence, and we can credit this evolution only to eachother. For our physical evolution is nigh but done, our mental evolution on the other hand, is only just beginning. We stand on the shoulders of giants, and we shall be giants someday as well. As we move into the future, billions of men, women, and children, we set our sights on the stars. And one day, we will reach them. Together.
