Are people more happy  if they focus on themselves or focus on the happiness of others?  

     My position on this is that we as humans are more happy when we can do something to make someone else happy.  An example of this would be this little old lady that I know.  It doesn't matter what you give her as a gift,  she will always give it away to someone else.  I have witnessed others doing a similar thing.  I believe that when we give ourselves or something material to the well being or to bring a smile to someone, it makes us feel good about ourselves.  If you think about it,  if you were to keep something that you really did not need, and watched someone else suffer because they had nothing,  you would probably feel horrible.  You would always have that nagging feeling that you did something wrong, and indeed you did.  You robbed yourself of true happiness.  We have not learned this in todays world.  In a world where you can just about buy anything you need or want.  We seem to always want to have more and be higher up on the scale of status.  This is very stressful and does not give us that feeling of being happy.         

     The reasons that I feel this way is that thru my life I have witnessed it both ways.  I have seen some really selfish people that were miserable and some very giving people that were very happy.  I feel really strongly about helping those that can't help themself.  If I don't I wonder would anyone.  I had money at one time.  I felt so happy but it was only temporary.  What I found out was that money was only temporary and when it was gone I felt so empty.  It is very true that when you work to serve others you are really serving yourself.  
     If everyone would work to help the lives of others we could change the world.  It is a matter of attitude.  As a young woman, I went thru a divorce.  I felt so down and cried a lot.  I decided that every day I would make eye contact with at least one person and smile.  Believe it or not I instantly felt better and I am sure the other people did too.  It is amazing what just a smile can do.  

     There are people who think that acquiring material goods or lots of money will make you happy.  My argument is, when you are on your death bed those items or money cannot give you the comfort of a person who is giving of themselves.  A good argument for not focusing on our own happiness would be that there have been a few music artist, movie stars, and even millionaires that have taken their own life.  This is why I believe that focusing on the happiness of others will definitely make you happier.  

     In conclusion, I think we should all just try this out.  Try being giving and loving to strangers or keep and attain all the material things that you like.  You can then find out for yourself what really makes a person happy.  Just like that time in my life where I decided to smile at a random person every day.  I was so sad at that time but that really turned things around for me.  I learned then that I most definitely had found true happiness.  
