Images and impressions do have to much of an effect on people.  Many times advertisements will have bright backgrounds and smiling faces in order to distract people from there problems and focus on products.  Companies want people to feel that their product is what can make them happy or fix a problem in their life.  Instead of letting to quality of a product speak for itself, companies will spend large sums of money to try and convince the public that their product is the best.  While advertising is necessary in order to get word of a product out to the masses, it should be done in an ethical manner with the product at the forefront of the ad.

One of the biggest offenders of advertising with little to no information are commercials for pharmaceuticals.  A commercial may show a woman laughing or a man throwing a football while just telling you to ask your doctor about this new drug.  The fact that drug companies spend more on marketing than they do actual research for developing drugs is also a very concerning trend.

Another concern about the impressions placed upon people are coming from so called influencers.  Social media personalities are being used more and more to push products onto their audiences.  This can be especially harmful due to the development of parasocial relationships that some users may develop with said influencers.  An individual may have interacted with their favorite influencer during a live chat or had their name read after a donation which for some is enough to build trust with the influencer, even though they may have thousands of other followers and not truly care about individual followers.  Also many influencers may not even use or like the products they advertise.  They will peddle anything they are paid for and may make claims that are untrue just to make a buck.

In the end, it could be said that it is the consumers fault for being duped, but they are going up against million or billion dollar companies who will do anything to sell their product in any way possible.  Regulations may need to be developed in order to ensure predatory practices are not used to push products.  Until then it is up to everyone to ensure they develop their own opinions on products and services without relying on fancy ads to tell them what to do.
