The tale is old as time, the woman in the movie who is constantly shopping and buying all the shoes to her heart's content. We see it in our everyday lives, kids wanting new toys everytime they're taken to the store, or even people camping out to get the latest Iphone. While materialism is heavily criticized in today's society, there's no denying that most people have been captured by this phenomenon. But just because it's the norm to be materialisitc does not mean that it is in anyway good. Being materialistic should be criticized because it leads to addiction, and creates shallow, unhappy individuals.
While it may give a rush to buy something you really want in the moment, this rush does not last forever. Buying things that are not a necessesity every once in a while can be a good thing. It can boost your spirits and be used as a reward for accomplishing something or an act of self care. However, many people fall into the trap of replacing true happiness with the dopamine rush of buying a new item. This leads into an addiction to buying and spending money. Some people say that there is no problem with being materialistic because it's an act of self care all times, but that is completely false. From personal experience, if you need an item to fill a void in your life, it's better off to spend that on therapy to find the root cause. Getting an addiction to buying something is very dangerous and puts so many families into debt.
From a young age, children are constantly watching what their parents do, and most will emulate these things as they're growing and into adult age. With so many materialistic adults, it's no wonder why our society is getting worse and worse when it comes to teens and young adults being shallow when it comes to material things. Kids get bullied in school for not having the newest things, and unfortunately this continues on into adulthood. Shallow individuals avoid those who don't have "enough" money, not even giving the average joe the time of day because they won't be able to provide a high cost lifestyle for them. Materialism just leads society further and further away from being content with what we have. Constantly being a consumer of goods does not make a person fulfilled, but to these shallow individuals, they believe it will. So they just keep buying and buying, hoping that the next purchase will finally make them happy and better than the next person. No suprise, it doesn't, but the individual doesn't comprehend that and just buys something a week later.
Overall, everyone knows that materialism is a bad trait to have, but it does not stop people from having this issue. Whether it be the cause of an addiction, or the cause of a shallow individual, there is no positive outcome of materialism (except for corportations who take our money). Society needs to be reformed to where people strive to be minimalists and not materialists, but this will take a tremendous amount of work. 

