The world today is filled with real issues that all good people should be focused on spending their time solving.  Unfortunately there are many people in the world today that focus on issues that are not really a problem.  The people who focus on these issues are often trying to distract you from the real problems of the world as they have something to gain by re-directing your fattention.

The issue that some people focus on today that is not really an issue is materialism in modern society. Materialism is aquiring possessions and spending money, and is often criticized as something that people should not be doing.  They say that people should instead be focused on saving money and cutting spending, and often cutting possessions to live a simpler and more balanced life.

Of the many criticisms about materialism, the following are the strongest arguments.  People should focus more on saving money and reducing their carbon footprint.  People should not be greedy and accumulate more than they need. People should not buy things they don't need because someone else may need it more and they may be depriving others of living better, happier, lives.

While I agree that saving money and reducing individual carbon footprints is a fairly noble idea, the thought that someone can't be materialistic while saving money isn't something that is necessarily correlated.  One of the major issues with this argument is that an individual can have a material effect on carbon emissions. Something like 75 percent of all carbon emissions are the responsibility of a few companies and countries who are not going to stop.  One person cannot offset any measurable number. It is also very possible to save money, while spending some extra money on material things, the two are not necessarily mutually exclusive.  It's just a balance that must be maintained.

Being greedy is sometimes thought of as a trait that is not desireable. It's often shown this way by people who want more but are not able to get more, and are jealous of those who have more.  There's often a sentiment that people who are able to afford more do not deserve what they have, and should share.  While all of these are certainly slightly true on some level, the basic idea comes down to individual rights.  Individuals have the right to spend their money however they want, and just because someone else doesn't like it, doesn't mean they are wrong.

Tying into the last sentiment, people should not buy things they don't need because someone else may need it more and they may be depriving others of living better, happier, lives.  While on the surface, this also seems moral and noble, the truth is that it is just not other people's responsibility to make other people happy or better off.  In fact, it's sometimes the case that when people who have less are given more, that they squander that extra something.  

In conclusion, it's easy to criticize others, and society as a whole of being materialistic, especially when looked at from a position of subjectivity.  However, just because it can be criticized, doesn't mean that the criticism is warranted, and in fact it's often more likely that it's jealousy at the core, rather than beliefs that are sound and bear out under scrutiny.  
