Modern society and even society as we know it from the beginning of time has had aspects of materialism in almost every nook and cranny that one can think of. It has definitely been criticized before in the past, however in this day and age, the criticism is very apparent especially when it comes to the lower and middle classes criticizing the upper class citizens in todays society for buying luxury cars, food, designer clothes, or property. Many arguments can be made that modern society is criticized too much for being materialistic, such aas historical figures who prove that materialism is rather consistent throughout time. However, it holds even more true that society nowadays places an especially heavy emphasis on materialsim and should be rightfully criticized due to multiple reasons.

One can argue that there have been multiple instances in history in which society has greatly valued materialism over other much more important aspects of life. The Romans and prominent historical figures such as Mansa Musa were known for their lavish spending on things that were certainly not necessary, while the poor and middle class of those ages lived with the bare minimum of things required to thrive. More well known historical events that involved materialsm involved the building of the Taj Mahal for example, which might be one of the most incredible materialistic purchases of all time. Therefore, one can argue that society has been materialistic for practically since the dawn of times, except now it is people buying yachts, designer clothes, etc. all of which are just different expressions of materialism and that it is. natural for humans to yearn for things that cost a lot of money.

Despite the arugment that materialism may be a natural human tendency, it is clear that regardless of whether this is true or not that materialism in modern society is a disease that is far more amplified and prominent than it was even 30 years ago, let alone hundreds or thousands of years ago. Nowadays, technology is so advanced that there is no way to escape the materialistic ideals of society as it is promoted nearly everywhere, wheter that be on social media, TV, or billboards. Technology itself is a materialistc aspect of modern society (excluding medical technology and technologies that actually beenfit human lives instead of damaging them). Nearly everyone knows someone, usually including themselves, that yearns for the newest iPhone, BMW, Gucci belt, etc. every year. Materialsim in terms of technology and designer brands has become extremely toxic to human mental health as nowadays competition is literally based on who has the hottest new tech item, car, or clothes. This is further amplified by the presence of social media as with a click of a button, a person can share anything and let the world know why they think they are better than everyone else because of something they just purchased. It is simply an embarassment to modern society to be so caught up in something that truly does not matter when a person dies. Those who are less fortunate do not even have the time to be materialistic and seem to enjoy life a lot more than those who do have time to sucumb to the disease that is materialism. Unfortunately, there are those who are less fortunate who continue to suffer at the hands of the ultra rich whom are the kings and queens of a materialistic personality, spending hundreds of millions of dollars every year on things that nobody requires. For this reason especially, one can see that materialism causes actual physical suffering and negative consequences, deserving its criticism in modern society. 

Despite the existence of materialism since practically the dawn of human time, criticism still needs to exist regarding it due to the fact that humans lose their morals that allow them to appreciate the natural things in life, such as food, water, nature, etc. In turn, humans become less empathetic toward each other as they compete to see who has the most extravagent life, which in it of itself exemplifies the serious problem of class divides in our modern society. In general, only those who are upper middle class or upper class can truly enjoy materialism without being worried their purchase might break the bank in the long run, thus opening the door to valid criticisms of materialism in todays society.
