Materialism may be a vital part of existence, but the excessive drive and lust for material posessions and owning the most expensive or newest items provides empty paths to no happiness. Capitialist society has conditioned many people that shopping, spending and owning are avenues to a more complete, happy life. This is certainly false. Modern society's drive towards materialism is an empty hallway leading to nowhere constructed by the capitalists who benefit from keeping a society addicted to material goods. Modern society should definitely be critizied for being materialistic, keeping in mind it is less the citizens of that societys fault and moreso the structure of our materialist society that aims to direct its citizens behaviors.

One reason modern society should be critizied for being materialistic is that the narrative on spending to achieve happiness is a false one. Numerous studies have shown that when people experience things or spend money on experiences the satisfaction they get from that purchase is higher and the satisfaction lasts longer. Buying a material good to hoard is a short term benefits a person less. 

Modern society should also be critizised for being materialistic due to the fact that the earth has limited resources. We can only consume so much and when we have a society addicting to consuming and consuming out of control the demand rises and the environment suffers. 

Another criticisim of materialism in modern society is the shapers of society who have decided that its best for its population to consume so that it might increase profits. The citizens of our society should not be blamed for wanting to consume as from birth they have been bombared by constant messssages that consuming and purchasing brings happiness. Modern society's materialism should be critizied, but the blame should largely fall on the capitalistic monsters whose greed shows no bounds and thus pushes people to buy buy buy. 

A counter argument to being critical of materialism might look a bit like this. In order for the world economy to function, for people to have jobs and to survive there must be a level of consumption. A materialistic society is just a society trying to do right by it citizens by providing it goods which in turn can provide jobs. Materialism is an important aspect of life in our society

I would counter that by saying that yes, while some sort of materialism is necessary, the rampant out of control accumuliation of material goods that tends to barely benefit the indiividual indicates that there is something wrong with societal messages about materialism.

Materialism might be an aspect of society and indivduals lifes that is important for overall functioning, but the way in which society hyperfocuses on material objects is determinental on a personal, societal and environmental level.
