No, modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. People love to hate what they can't have. Would these same people complain and whine about materialism if they themselves were in a position as those they criticize? It's unlikely that they would because of the level of comfort they feel. Signs of materialism could also be a possible sign of wealth. This is not always the case but, if there are enough people talking about it, it probably is. 

Imaging having worked all your life and finally something has came out of it. Not just something, your work has transformed into millions and you finally can spend how you like. Maybe not stupidly, but comfortably getting what you always wanted. All the shoes you never had, going out to eat to places you can't pronouce, buying your mother a house, and whatever else you dreamt of. Now, those people you've worked with and have surpassed and everyone around you is telling you you've changed, your materialistic now but, for what? You've worked hard for everything you've gotten but now you can't even spend it on anything you like without comments like this. Are these people jealous? Maybe or maybe they really care about wasteful individuals. Either way,  after working your life away have my fruits finally come to grow and I can't eat them without a negative comment on how I am eating too much. If you are at a point where people are calling you materialistic, you have earned everything you got. Everyone with make negative comments no matter what you do and being called materialistic when your able to spend it is not a bad thing, only when you recklessly spend money to mimic a wealthy individual. 

People will cry and say to not do things they are not able to do. If you have worked all your life you deserve to get what you want and give what you want to whomever. Don't let everyone have a say in your life especially someone bitter and negative, they are the ones to criticize. There are more people wanting to bring you down to their lever but not a lot of people who can elevate their existence. If materialism is choosen, give back as well. Give back to those in your previous position to create a positive cycle and show everyone being materialistic isn't something that should be criticized but, a sign of someone who followed their dreams.  



