People define happiness in several various ways. Some people are happy when they set personal goals for themselves and achieve those goals. While this is a great way to gain happiness, the better path to happiness lies in doing good deeds for others. When the happiness of others is placed above individual happiness, humanity benefits the most.
For example, Zane sets a personal goal for himself: losing twenty pounds within three months. He does so by watching what he eats and participating in physical activities five times per week. Completing his goal makes Zane happy, but greater happiness would be gained by sharing his healthy diet and exercise plan with others. This way, not only has he helped himself by achieving his personal goal, he has provided others with tools to accomplish their own goals. Humanity benefits more from Zane sharing his knowledge and experience, rather than keeping the path to his success private.
Another example of this happens around the holidays. Laura enjoys taking time off from work during the holidays and spends her vacation time cooking and baking for her husband and herself. Even though she enjoys cooking for her husband, she feels something is missing from the joy of the holidays. This year, Laura decises she and her husband will donate their time at a homeless shelter, cooking for and serving the less-fortunate. Laura feels excited about doing something new and different during the holidays this year, but her true happiness comes from being around others and helping to provide a joyful experience to those who may have otherwise gone without. Not only did Laura experience her own happiness, but she saw how others found joy in sharing a holiday meal and fellowship. 
Focusing on the happiness of others can be simple, as well. Sometimes I arrive at work to discover the atmosphere is less-than-positive and my coworkers are just wanting the work day to be over. I could close myself up in my office and amuse myself until it's time to go home, or I can choose to share positivity and happiness with my coworkers. I plan on having one of my favorite foods for lunch, and my plan was to enjoy lunch alone in my office. Instead, I'll offer to order and pick up lunch for myself and coworkers, so wwe can all enjoy our lunch hour together. So, not only am I happy about eating my favorite food, everyone else is able to enjoy their lunch also, which brightens the office atmosphere considerably.
Some will say that personal happiness is much more important than the happiness of those around them. While setting personal goals and achieving those goals are great, real happiness comes from sharing our paths to success with others. It is very easy to focus on our own happiness and ignore the needs of others, which has increased the amount of selfish, entitled behavior in the world. Some will say that it is more important to get ahead in life, instead of being kind and generous to others. If we want to increase the overall happiness of humanity, we must learn to put others before ourselves, which makes us personally happy but also improves the happiness of those around us. 
In conclusion, it is much better to give the gift of happiness than to only focus on our own happiness. The next time you plan to enjoy an activity or create a goal for yourself, consider the possibility that others will greatly benefit from sharing the path to happiness you have discovered.
