Images and impressions tend to have a deep effect on people, whether they are intended to or not. Many people; especially young men and women, feel that they need to be like those seen in images, ads, and commercials from various stores and websites. Too often, these images give those viewing them an unrealistic vision of what they should look like, which can be detrimetal to one's personal reflection of themself. 

Although some may say that the most important feature that one can exhibit is their personality or what they have on the inside, the information shared on the media tells a completely different story. Rarely, does the media ever show someone being kind just because, or someone who looks drastically different than those around them. Mostly, the media, images, and other ads, revolve around one's looks first, and then their actions after that. This can be detrimental to many audiences, whether intentional or not. 

When gaining confidence  in one's skin, it is nearly impossible to do so when so many aspects play a role in what "normal" or "beautiful" looks like. Not only does the media impede what others feel that they should look like, putting themselves out there does as well. There was once this woman, who was a teenager at the time, who found, via the internet, that she was titled the World's ugliest woman. Although this young lady was extremely nice and caring, she was labeled solely on one's perception of her looks alone. The woman, traumatized at first, used this to rise above the unkind words that she was unknowingly labeled as. 

Although this woman's experience turned into a learning experience for herself and  others, it typically does not end that way. The expectations that outside sources; especially media outlets, ads, and other store advertisements, have on people is unbelievable. So many people feel as though they are not "good enough" or "beautiful/handsome enough" because they base their personal views on the ideologies that they see on computers, televisions, and etcetera. 

Many may think what they see all around them is real, but more often than not, it is not. All too often, people look down on themselves because they are incapable of living up to what they see on the media. Not only does this cause severe personal negativity, it also causes so many people to be judgemental, rude, and unaccepting of others. If the media would show more realistic, unedited images of people, many people would feel much more confident in their own skin. This would allow many people to focus their attention more on areas important to them rather than their looks and what those on the outside see in them. Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. 
