Materialism is an ever-growing and developing aspect of modern society. It has a large impact on how people live their lives and how a large amount of their time is spent. Materialism in modern society should certainly be condemned because the feelings created by behaving in a materialistic way (e.g. feeling that you're better off) are the opposite of what materialism actually does to the lives of individuals. 

The main driver behind materialistic behavior is the intrinsic reward that is given by the behavior. When an individual buys something that seems to be "owned by everybody else already," they are rewarded with the feeling that they are just as good, or even better, than other people. This feeling is usually externalized as having more money or resources than other individuals. By displaying that one has more money/resources than others, one receives the feeling that they have accomplished more, or have achieved the ideals of society to a greater extent than these others they are comparing themselves with. It is completely natural for individuals to desire resources in their lives, as basic resources are necessary for human survival. Materialism, though, is not focused on acquiring basic resources that are necessary for survival. 

If an individual were to only desire resources that were necessary for survival, they would generally come to a point of equilibrium where they would only expend as much effort as necessary to get the exact amount of resources needed for their own survival. With gathering resources necessary for survival there is an internal feedback mechanism that lets an individual (or group) know that they have acquired what is necessary, or what is "enough." 

Materialism intentionally externalizes this feedback mechanism so that whether what an individual (or group) has is "enough" or not becomes dependent on what another individual or group has. If materialism only worked this way, as a single group comparing itself and its resources to another group, it would not have nearly the negative effect that it does on individuals. Unfortunately, materialism creates a cycle of judgment, with both individuals constantly judging the level of their own resources based on the resources of the other individual. This cyclical judgment leads to an "arms race" of sorts, with each individual always trying to acquire more than the other simply for the fact of having more. 

The societal adoption of materialism also causes individuals to judge the value of other individuals based on their level of possession of materialistic resources. So, since materialism then creates the acceptance of judging the value of an individual based on what material goods they possess, it can begin to cause individuals to value the pursuit of materialistic resources over resources that are necessary for their survival. In this way, individuals who started acquiring materialistic resources to show how well off they were in terms of resources and access to resources, end up with nothing of value as different materialistic resources become more desirable than the materialistic resources they currently possess. In this way, by pursuing the immediate reward of feeling "as good off or better than others," individuals end up being depleted of their resources, as well as their ability to use these resources in more meaningful ways than pursuing materialistic possessions that almost immediately lose their value.
