When joining extracurricular activities in high school, adults will tell you, "You should join a sport. It teaches you the importance of teamwork, and it looks great on a resume." There are a variety of skills taught through high school sports, including both competition and cooperation. While both of these skills are useful and bring people success in life, cooperation will benefit more people to a higher extent than competition. Cooperation is ideal because it encourages resource sharing, unites rather than divides, and relieves tension and burnout in, for example, a workplace setting.

Resource sharing is a key component of cooperation because everyone can bring a different skill to the table. When individuals work together as a group on a single task, or help one another to accomplish several, separate tasks, it is incredibly helpful to determine who is an expert at which particular step of the process and let them focus on that step. People can share resources rather than gatekeep them from each other, which might lead to success in some and failures in others, but which ultimately undermines productivity for all.

Speaking of gatekeeping resources, when people are overly competitive and not cooperative, they might pit themselves against each other. Cooperation encourages teamwork and group thinking so it is very rare for cooperative individuals to sow division in their groups, because they are working so closely together and are reliant on each other's skills. Competition naturally divides individuals while cooperation unites them in the achievement of a common goal.

Common goals are often the completion of work, especially meaningful work, in our current socio-economic climate. People want to do their work, do that work well, and feel well while doing it. Workers do not want to experience tension or burnout, and cooperation is a great way to prevent that. It's more difficult to feel tense or tired of your job when you are sharing burdens and relying on each other to complete the task or tasks at hand.

It could be argued that competition might lead to exponentially better work because everyone will be competing to get the award for the "Best Work," but often this is not the case. Competitive workplaces can turn into a "rat race" where the key is to complete your work the fastest and simply get it done and checked off a list. This leads to less meaningful work, and less care put into each action. When people work together, they are going to care about what they are doing, and put more thought into each step of the process, and the work will ultimately be more successful.

Whether someone is joining an extracurricular sport or their first corporate job, it is better to unite and join forces in a cooperative setting rather than sow division with an overly competitive environment. Due to sharing of resources, teamwork, and lack of tension or burnout, a team (sports or work or otherwise) will be incredibly successful through cooperation rather than competition.
