     Anbody with kids has undoubtedly been annoyed with the incessant questions of "can I have this?" anytime they go to the store. Even from such a young age, our society is obsessed with material possessions and our ability to acquire items that give us instant gratification. But is materialism such a bad thing? I hope to show you in the following paragraphs that it really isn't.

     We all have stresses in our lives, and there is nothing we look forward to more as humans than relief from these stresses that seem to dominate our lives and minds. Pyschologically, having a near term goal in mind can get us through the day to day. Often times, this role is filled admirably by a material artifact. Rough day at work? Lets go buy a new game. On the other end of the spectrum are more extreme items. New promotion to a lifelong career? Maybe its time to get that new car you've been wanting. Without material benefits and incentives, the odds that people will work consistently to achieve these goals in minimalized.  One could even say that being materialistic is the bedrock of a capitalist society. Would the US have the worlds biggest and most powerful economy if people didn't work and spend to achieve their materialist goals? The answer is a resounding "no". 

     I want to take you back to your childhood: think of Christmas morning as a kid. Can you remeber the joy you felt unwrapping those highly anticipated gifts? I will always remember being 8 years old and unsuspectingly unwrapping what would end up being one of the most memorable gifts of my life: a nintendo 64 (which I still own to this day). Sure, the nintendo isn't the most meaningful item I ever received. But recalling the happiness and overwhelming sense of excitement I had nearly 25 years later still brings a smile to my face. Memories are priceless, and material items help create memories. Favorite toys, favorite cars, favorite jewelry: these items, however materialistic they are, are lightning rods of emotional memories. 

     Naysayers will be naysayers, but please consider this. I spoke of the US economy earlier, and regardless of whose fault it is I think we can all agree that the current economy is lacking. One of the principle causes of this was of course COVID. Decreased manufacturing, decreased sales, decreased comsumption: all of these were a direct result of the pandemic. These symptoms are the exact opposite of a materialistic society, and look at where it has gotten us. Our economy NEEDS more spending. Without spending, people lose jobs, and without those jobs, people spend less. It is a vicious cycle that can easily snowball out of control once started. In short: capitalism cannot exist without materialism. As negative as the word "materialist" has become over the past years, being driven by material goods is bedrock to our cherished capitalist society. 

     In conclusion, I hope that I have in the very least given you some food for thought. Seeking out material items to fill our homes and dreams is not only good for our mental well being, but also good for our society and our country. The next time somebody calls you materialistic, maybe you should just reply "thank you". And please remember, the people who do nothing but save for the future may be the same people ensuring that we have no future. 
