It is hard to overstate the effect of appearance and even mood on the way people process information and understand the world around them. Whether it is the result of modern, hypercapitalist advertising style, the influence of social media and the way it highlights only the brightest moments of our peers' lives, or the casual prevalence of misinformation brought about by the Information Age we live in, people seem to be valuing the actual truth at an all time low. One wouldn't need to look further than the popularization of the phrase "alternative fact" to describe what we once would have just called an outright lie. 

It is harder, still, to overstate the effect of our culture not valuing truth anymore. Truth is the cornerstone of all reason and thought. Truth is the guiding hand by which we can decide how to treat others. Truth is the only way to make improvements in science, in technology, in education. Truth is the only way to make a meaningful decision, in personal life, in politics, in morality. To stop considering the truth to be the most important aspect of a decision is to regress to animal instincts and live a meaningless, unexamined existence. 

I'm not sure what a counterargument to this concept even looks like. I suppose that all value is subjective, but the increasingly popular opinion that reality and truth are not that important is so nihilistic as to be a conversation ender in itself. I don't know how to explain to people that they should care about whether things are real or not. One can ignore the disappointment where reality brushes against appearance, and simply turn their brain off and think about some other untrue thing, and I suppose that is easier. But at that point, why even bother living at all? Why bother waking when the way you interact with the world around you is more like a dream than an attempt to engage with reality? 

That's not even to mention the moral imperative to care about truth. One can only make conscientious attempts not to harm others, which I think is the bare minimum moral requirement to deserve to live, if they are concerned about what is actually happening. Whether or not you can convince yourself that you aren't hurting anyone is completely irrelevant to whether you are, in fact, hurting someone. And yet people are increasingly favoring the former in their moral reasoning over the latter, because they aren't particularly worried about what is true, only how it appears and how they feel about it. A suitable word for someone who makes decisions regarding other people's feelings in this way would be "sociopath." 

It feels impossible to sum the problem here up in a sufficient way. I don't know how to catalogue all the ways that not caring about reality bleeds into every decision a person makes in every way. I don't know how to express the importance of engaging with the actual world around you to anyone who doesn't already feel this way. At the end of the day, apathy has no natural counterargument, because apathy isn't an argument in the first place, so much as it is a refusal to participate. But in being born we were all forced to participate, at the bare minimum, enough not to harm one another. 

All this, I suppose, is semi-tangential to the original prompt. The point is, the way modern capitalistic advertisement and culture focuses so heavily on outright lying to people, and teaching them not to care that they are being lied to, is inextricably linked to the way that the people in turn stop caring about the truth. And the way people stop caring about the truth is the most important and tragic casualty of advertisements and celebrity culture. 

Speaking of things that are true, sometimes you can express a complete thought in less than 30 minutes if you type quickly, and I don't appreciate being warned for inactivity when I just don't have more to say about the subject :p I'm really hoping you don't plan on rejecting what I think is obviously decent quality work over that. Out of concern that you have a way to detect whether I have left the tab or not, I haven't even tabbed out to check the timer or anything like that. 
