Happiness is one of those things we all intuitively understand but cannot quite grasp. We all desire it and we are all striving for it in some way or another but most of us can't quite define what it is or how to achieve it. Nonetheless, we all deeply desire to be happy. It seems like one of those things that is one of life's central aims

I believe people are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others. The reason being is that we are all interconnected with each other. When others feel pain we feel distressed. Likewise, when others are in a positive spirit then that feeling rubs off on us too and makes us feel a lot better. In my opinion, happiness is no different. If those closest to us are happy - our friends, family members, community, etc - then that will inevitably rub off on us and have an effect too. We will feel safer around them and share in the positive mood of their successes and wellbeing. If we focus on improving humanity and have effects that ripple throughout the greater community, it will have a huge effect on the happiness of everyone living and, by extension, ourselves. 

There are some good counterpoints to this argument. For one, some may believe that happiness comes from our own self-oriented pursuit of our goals. After all, we tend to feel good after achieving something. However, I'd argue this is not true happiness. We may feel good for a moment but usually that is nothing but a brief dopamine hit. It would be like saying one is genuinely happy because they just had a delicious of icecream. It is important not to confuse hedonistic pleasures with happiness and we will find that when we are on our deathbed, we often don't recount how much money we've made or the amount of pizza we got to enjoy. We usually look back on our experiences and the most memorable of those experiences will be with other people. If those experiences were had with people who were genuine and kind, as opposed to greedy and self-centered, it stands to reason that we'd feel better off for being around those kinds of people. Another point people may bring up is that they cannot afford to have a grand standing goal of making others happy. They need to focus on themselves and their own survival. This is a valid point and I am a firm believer that one cannot help others until they help theirselves. That being said, one may find that the best way to help theirself is to help others. That person may pay back the energy expended to them exponentially and change the givers life. It is also the case that, ideally, being in a position where we can't help others is a temporary state and we should strive to be in a place where we are able to give back. This I believe will lead to the greatest benefit, both materially and in terms of being happy, for everyone. 

Looking at life and boiling down all of our decisions to determine to what end do they lead, I believe a word like happiness or fulfillment would be at the apex. Many believe that in order to be happy then they must strive for their own goals and own successes and that they cannot afford to waste time on other people. However, I believe that true happiness lies in helping others and creating a strong, loving global community. 


