 Have you always wondered why we are so caught up in the way others view us? Maybe you have viewed other people in a different light as well. If the answer to the first question is yes and you agree with the second statement; here is the reason. In today's society, there is an overwelming response to how indiviuals portray themselves and how others portray them. This in result is due to images placed on social media, television, and stores.

Let's first look at social media for example.  There are so many social media platforms available now for all ages to join. These sites allow a person to voice opinions and upload photos.  They basically are set up for people to create the life of who and what they want it to be. In return, others are looking at these people and wishing to mimic the life of others. This creates a false reality, but could have an effect of someone's life.

Secondly, television has so much effect on people. The news tells us what things should be and how to go about our days. There are shows that showcase a variety of topics for other's to relate to their lives. The images shown on TV, affects our way of living and we live by doing things we see and hear. Television is a huge worldly stage, and many are watching and doing.

Lastly, I feel that what we see in stores impacts us so much on many different levels. For example, we can go to a store to shop for one thing, but end up getting more things that we don't need. Displays are set in the store to capture these images of us needing these products. They grab our attentions through packagings, colors, and advertisement. Advertisement could be from a popular celebrate and we will feel like we need it because they are on the package. The market place has a big impression on us whether we know it on not.

In conclusion, I feel like the world around us has many affects in the way we see things. We are met with images on a daily basics and feel that it we see it, we have to have it. These effects are presented to us via social media, television, and stores. Next time, we see things, let's take the time out to see what imapct it has on us before reacting. If we all took this approach, the smallest things wouldn't be so bad on our daily lives or others. Can I count on you to think the next time you see a image or an impression?
