Modern society has been lamented by some people as promoting materialsm in persons. Some people believe this leads to a decline in personal happiness and point to sources like the Bible. Others people that materialism leads to happiness and points to sources like the sucess of capitolism in Western societies. In this essay, it is my stance to exam both of these viewpoitns to see if one can be thought of as better than the other. Or, are they interwined and are both beneficial to a person?
In regards to the viewpoint that materialism is 'good' or 'bad', some people will point to the Bible and point out that it is 'bad'. Perhaps the proverbs of King Soloman in the Old Testament come to mind. He was a man who had it all yet warned people that it was all vanity under the sun. That he had everything-wisdom, women, wine and wealth- and that it was all meaningless and did not make him happy. However, when one exams the writings of Soloman deeper, we see that it is all meaningless unless one has a relationship with God/Jesus Christ. This is a valid point. Many people desire something to fill 'that need' and make them happy. A relationship with Jesus Christ can do this. When one is prosperous, and use material wealth correctly, happiness can be acheived and maintained when one is centered in Christ because man alone is not sufficent. The Bible is also replete with sources of how being overly rich did not lead to happiness. The prodigal son spent his wealth on pleasures and became poor and ended up sleeping in a pig sty. Thereby going to a worse place because of this. When he went back home, his father welcomed him back (into an environment of material wealth) and he was fed and taken care of thereby improving his health. So material wealth can be bad if used incorrectly.
So, can material wealth ever be 'good' for a society? What about Western civizilzation? When consumers buy goods, it generates jobs for others. This in turn can generate wealth for companies and their owners and it has a trill down effect for others like the workers, vendors, etc. However, when consumers borrow money unwisely, it also generates problems like defaulting on loans. If things happen on a grand scale like many people defaulting, the whole system can enter a recession and that country or other countries as well can expire a sceanario that brings the whole sytem to a halt. People can lose jobs, homes and companies can close. 
Therefore, it is necessary that people use material wealth wisely. Captiolism can be 'good' or 'bad' depending on who you ask. But it is necessary, again to make sure that individuals and societies/countries as a whole learn how to use it wisely.
Therefore, what can we say about materialism. Is spending money and having items/goods a good idea, or a bad idea? As I beleive that my essay attests too, that depends on the worldview of the person in a way. However, I think that we can agree, dear reader, that government policies and religion aside, that material wealth must be maintained and controlled in a responsible manner. Money and things are not a substiute when you really need a relationship or interaction with someone else like people or God. And material wealth and the lack of it can lead to good and bad outcomes for individuals as well as whole societies if not maintained properly. Rome was not built or collasped in a day. But good wealth and resource management helped to build it. And poor wealth and resource management helped ensure that it collasped. I personally would love to see you take the Bible's wisdom to heart. However, should you not choose to beleive in God, please at least do things in moderation and learn how to properly treat money and material wealth. You will be happier and better off if you do. 
