Materialism is one of the most talked about topics nowadays. As more people have access to the internet and get a peak into everyone else's life, it is easy for us to look at someone and judge their lifestyle, especially if they appear to be materialistic as tthose can be seen as show-off.
Is being materialistic a bad thing? I personally don't think so, especially if those who live that lifestyle get what they want on their own. The modern society has developed so much that it is completely different from the past. Some people may think because tasks like studying, researching, looking for jobs, finding more sources of income have become much easier, life has also improved and there are less struggles compared to the old days. However, as a result of this, competition has also increased and young people seem to have more stress and less happiness. When we already spend so much time and effort to be good citizens, by working and producing products that help with the society's growth, why is it not acceptable to use the money we make to buy ourselves happiness? At the end of the day, money is made to spend, what it should be spent on is different for everyone but no one should be criticized for their decisions.
Being materialistic can be bad, of course, but as is everything else if being overdone. However, the point here is what should be the limit for criticism. Back in the days, people had to face different types of hurdles: wars, famine... so it is understandable that everyone prioritized saving money over sending it on unneccessary items. However, life has changed, it is much easier now to make money, especially if someone is smart and quick to see opportunities. There is no reason not to buy things if they can afford. Why save when they can earn more money? Buying goods is also a way to help the economy. After Covid-19 happened, the first thing the government did was to encourage shoppings and eating out as that would help boost the economy. Some might argue that the money can be used for better purposes such as donations, I personally don't agree with this. One's money should be spent the way they want, donating is a good gesture but it shouldn't be forced. If someone choose to spend money on themselves and does not hurt others, it should not be a problem to begin with.
In conclusion, people love to hate and materialism is just coincidentally the easiest to spot. Being materialistic is not a bad thing and in some ways, not only helps people happy but also helps the economy growth.
