Materialism is an inescapable part of human life. Some people who see their dogs hoard items might say it's a part of animal life as well. However, materialism has been criticized as a shallow pursuit by many and is accordingly looked down on. If you really look at it though, materialism in some form is not just a part of life, it is the driving force of life. Without it, our lives might be little more than sex and fighting.

Humans, like other animals, crave reproductive mates, food and territory. It is a natural, instinctual desire. Materialism gives humans another option. By channeling our desires to materials, we can avoid the dangerous constant competition that befalls another animals. We don't need to challenge each other for mates and property, because we can independently pursue possessions. Furthermore, the drive for more possessions gives us goals to shoot for. Without wanting possessions, there might be nothing else to want once we have had children and found a piece of land to inhabit. We would only need to afford food and our life would be centered around survival. Materialism gives us a reason to want more. In that way we can create an economy where people strive for more than just what it takes to subsist. 

Some people would argue that we could still have achievable goals without wanting materials. It is worth noting that these critics cannot name a society that has ever existed without materialism on a large scale. Some isolated tribes may have eschewed materialism, and there are societies who have rebuffed it as part of their religion, but those examples only exist on a small scale. Other people may argue that materialism will lead to the end of humanity because of the effects of climate change. However, this is could be blamed on excess materialism rather than materialism itself. Waste and excess could be addressed through responsible and ethical practices, rather than the wholesale ditching of materialism as a concept. Finally, it should be discussed that most of the conflicts humans have with each other that led to war and suffering could be traced back to differences between people based on land and culture. If people simply focused on trying to get possessions rather than ethnic and religious conflicts, group violence could very well disappear. There would be no need to become tribal based on those group differences; instead people would individually pursue their goals. The conflicts caused by this would therefore be on an individual level which would lead to much less violence. 

In conclusion, materialism may not be a perfect human concept, but it is an important one and is necessary for human society to exist as it currently does. If you subtracted materialism from our society, humanity might very well be doomed. 
