You pull up to a 4,000 square foot beachhouse to meet a potential client to discuss their finances. In the driveway, there is a Ferari, a Escalade, and a Hummer. Now one may think you are about to meet a very wealthy person who is rich beyond means. The term wealthy needs to be addressed firsthand. For example, you can have all of these materialistic things to display your hierarchial status, but what does your financial plan entail? I believe wealth can be defined as having enough passive income to cover your recurring monthly expenses, which would make you financially independent. This person may turn out to be leasing these vehicles and barely affording their mortgage, but from our perspective, it sure doesn't look that way. I will discuss several reasons why modern society should be criticized for being materialistic as followed. Social media has overtaken people's minds on how they view themselves and think they need to be perceived by others. A person who is financially literate will not be phased by a materialistic nature.
We all know there are plenty of social media sites that our kids and adults alike will spend a significant amount of time scrolling. The newer generations have become fixated on social media influencers who exhibit these materialistic lifestyles and believe they need to do the same, which everyone's financial situation is different and these influencers may be able to afford it unlike their followers, or maybe not at all and living off credit. These people then hop on the materialistic train, spending well above their means to "keep up with the Jones". I grew up in a modest blue collar working household and was instilled the knowledge and importance of always working hard to earn anything you purchase or receive. I will be honest, my parents will splurge a little more than I would myself but I also don't want to step on their toes and cause an unneeded argument either. I feel social media has tremendously impacted the population in regards to wanting to live in a materialistic lifestyle, ruining their financial plan and once they realize that they don't need these objects, they are already stuck in the rat race.
I have read several books that have discussed financial literacy and the proper way to practice frugality. The book "The millionaire next door" has enlightened me that the self-made millionaires rarely obtain many materialistic things. They live in modest homes in a good neighborhood but never over the top. They purchase and keep cars for extended periods of time rather than most people who will trade in their new car prior to really enjoying the luxury of no car payment. In my opinion, schools should be obligated to enroll all students in a financial literacy course to better prepare them for their adulthood so they don't end up digging themselves in a hole before realizing what they done. For example, a high school student just graduated with honors in their class, but a financial literacy course was never taken. Rather than weighing their options, the student elects to receive loans to cover all living expenses and not live a frugal lifestyle, thinking they are rich with these loans. Then, the bachelor degree arrives which is a great feat but at what cost? The student accrued interest on all of those extra loans they took out which may have been avoided if they knew more about finances and the importance of having a financial plan.
I will say that the other side of the spectrum does have a point with the desire to be materialistic. For example, money cannot buy happiness, but it sure makes life a lot nicer. Every person's financial situation is different and needs to be considered, as one person may live happily with their family in a small condo out in the suberbs, where another desires to live as close to the beach as they can afford because that's their happy place. I will be completing my schooling that I have been working on for quite some time. My peers may want to add on to their loans with a new vehicle or other material things as a reward. Myself, I plan to work hard at paying back my debts I accrued while in school and plan to pay them off way sooner than the standard repayment plan. To conclude, I feel the nation needs to address the concern with people being financially illiterate and end up living paycheck to paycheck, hoping for a bone to be given.
