   When thinking about the benefits of success between cooperation versus competition, you first need to identify the entity that would benefit. In the corporate world, corporations absolutely must compete against each other and it is that competition that drives innovation and overall success. However, within individuals cooperation is generally much more beneficial in the long run.

   As the old saying goes, "Two heads are better than one". This is true in a variety of situations where people are much better working together in cooperation towards an end goal instead of competiting seperately. While competition can drive the initial motivation to really get yourself going towards a goal, you will often reach a dead-end to where your progress is starting to stall. When adding in a second person, the ideas bounce back and forth. 

   This kind of cooperation allows you to take innovation even further. In a competitive environment, ideas are kept more secretive. While people can still be inspired by seeing a result, they could become more inspired if they understood the methods and understandings that lead to that original innovation. 

   With two heads working together, they can break down barriers that they would have originally encountered alone. This leads to a more rapid development towards a goal, increased efficiency, as well as many other team-unique benefits.  Together, working in unity is an overall faster and more effective way to get ahead that gives potential for many more ideas to be implemented.

   When you look at any negative aspects of cooperation, it usually comes down to team dynamics. Just like a successful competition requires you to be secretive and distant, cooperation requires transparency and closeness. When success fails, it is often the result of that exterior influence moreso than the fundamental nature of cooperation itself. 

   In other words, in a perfect situation where both cooperation and competition are options, and the necessary foundations for both are flawless, cooperation would come out on top for faster, more stable success in more ways than not.  Two guys stranded on an island are in the long-run better off cooperating than competing so long as they maintain a strong relationship.  Otherwise, one of them will do fine for a while, but both will eventually hit the dead-end.
