People often wonder if we function better as a competitive society versus a cooperative one. Throughout grade school, it seems that competition is often pushed as a motivator. For some kids, competition is very motivating. Many kids, however, are not motivated by competition and will instead detach or remove themselves from the situation to avoid competition. The kids may function better in cooperative environments. In terms of success, would not the most successful method be one that works best for everyone? Those who function well in competition can also do well in a cooperative environment, so success can be best achieved through cooperation.

There are many perks to cooperation. More individuals working on a project means more ideas, more time to get it done, more talents to collectively achieve the end result. Cooperation creates a positive, stable work environment. For example, imagine the goal is to complete a big class project. The teacher directs the class to form groups of 3 to work together. Each group is working on a section of the world map. At the end of the project, the class will put all the projects together to complete a large atlas that will go on the wall in the hallway by their classroom. It's due in 3 days, they can only work on it in class. Their final grade will have 3 parts; their individual work, their groups work, the end result of the class project. If everyone worked separately on a single country, they would run into issues where maybe the scale of the country size is wrong and they end up with an Australia that's twice the size of China. If they're working cooperatively in groups, they can more easily coordinate sizing and color matching between continents. 

Conversely, competition can alienate individuals from their coworkers, classmates, and friends. It creates a negative, stressful environment that is not conducive to creativity and growth. Taking the above example, their final grade involves the work of others. If one person doesn't follow directions, it effects everyone. The person who messes up would receive negative attention. If they're all working together, it's much easier to create a cohesive project in the required amount of time. 

Ultimately, people are more successful in cooperation. So many important things require cooperation to function. Patient care in a hospital requires nurses, doctors, radiologists, patient transport, surgical staff, maintenance, house keeping, laundry, HVAC, blood donations, etc. All of these things together are necessary to care for a patient and there is no one person who could do all of it. We can do some things alone, but we can do anything together. 
