     Bright and shiny on the outside but what is really on the inside? I am hear to tell you it is sometimes much more than anyone could expect. I believe sometimes we get a false representation of who someone really is based on appearance alone. Consider a selfie. It is a picture taken with exact angle and purpose. It shows exactly what someone wants you to see about them. Then, because of a caption, you create an impression of who you think this person really is. It is not always the case and let me explain why.
     I grew up in a small town of around 200 people. A rural community (some would say farm town). This community did not have alot of shopping opportunities. If you were seen as fashionable it was assumed you have alot of money because during that time you had to travel out of town to shop. I however did not have money but managed to stay within a certain fashionable status. The secret is I had an aunt who lived in Florida who would mail me hand-me-downs (clothes outgrown by my cousin). These clothes could not be found anywhere near where we lived so they had to be "expensive" in the eyes of the community. Even though I was concealing my actual financial worth I still felt the need to because we are often judged by our image and impressions we give. It was a necessity to be able to succeed in the community. 
     I hate that this feels it is needed to succeed because I met several individuals who far exceeded myself in being hard working and knowledgable. Yet they were never chosen to lead a group or invited to gatherings. These individuals were not seen for who they were because of their image. An image that some did not have a choice in. It was all they had besides their minds.
     Some might argue that their is always a choice. A choice to clean up and be "presentable". I can say that "some" are not always correct. I know this because I too have had the choice to either take the time to get cleaned (which could include hauling water up from the creek to warm over a fire) or help feed my sibling and finish necessary chores to survive. There is always a choice yes but making the right choice sometimes means survival. This is an example among many of why images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.
     I think that if we were to take the time to listen instead of look this world may become a better place. That selfie of a dressed up girl in a fancy tiled bathroom may have been taken in a fancy restaurant she is working overtime at just to survive. I think maybe we as a whole should venture back to an old saying of "Don't judge a book by its cover". I am not sure who came up with this phrase but I know they were wise beyond their years. Hopefully, we all can achieve this greatness if we do not let images and impressions continue to affect us like it has in the past.
