There are several words to acheive success like competitions but  cooperation is the one of the best way to get success, by cooperations several ideas combine together to acheive sucess. At the same time in cooperations nobody is there to help you in the field you need to fight to others alone to acheive the sucess.

At first competitions are some work we do alone before gettings success, It is pretty hard work but still it is a way to get sucess but due to we work alone and there is no one to help you it is a tough way for acheiving and also probablity of getting sucess is comparitively low here. For example it is like a running race, we run alone for the victory and no one there to help you. There are many people like you is running with you to reach the goal as like you hence the winning probality is low but if you work hard and  much focused on your goal you can acheive you success.

Cooperation is a method  where many people in your team shares their ideas, skills and talents to work with you, This is where you work as a team and acheive success as a team. here team is the key. You need to cooperate with your team mates and understand their point of views and gives respect to their ideas. Here your team mates helps you to acheive success. Foot ball is an execellent example for cooperation, In foot ball defenders helps to grab the ball from opposite team attackers and passes the ball to their home team attackers and attackers tries to hit the ball on the goal post, If opposite team players tries to hit a goal on your post your defenders help you to defend it and also goal keeper tries to defend too, Here a team splits into three groups and moving forward for the victory. Here probability of getting success is comparitively very high because of team work.

By the given explanation we can easily identify which way is easy to acheive success. Even though we can get our goal in both ways, cooperation is the easy and efficient way to acheive success, We all know that always Unity is strength, This simple concept works here. Cooperation is much more likely to produce significiant results as we expected, and also we can learn new things while we doing team work with others. So cooperation is the best way to acheive success.
