Materialism is the state of mind that everyone feels compelled to avoid, yet the mindset of materialism surrounds us at every turn. It's impossible to get away from materialism no matter how hard you try. Advertisements infiltrate every medium and bombard from all directions. What should you do when you don't want to fall into the traps of materialism? Is it even worth it to try to avoid this mindset? Do those who pursue materialism deserve to be criticized?

Avoiding materialism is, indeed, a worthy goal, and there are many reasons to criticize modern society for its materialistic mindset. Materialism robs people of true peace, which is definitely more valuable than any materialistic object one might acquire. With dedication and mindfulness, it is possible to stay true to a lifestyle that abhors the typical mindset of always trying to acquire that next, best thing. Guard what you allow into your mind and never let this guard down. Whether you're browsing the internet, sitting in the doctor's waiting room paging through magazines, driving down the interstate looking at billboards, or reading a book and getting new ideas from the characters, you must always be aware of how materialism can sneak into your mind and lead you down a pathway that involves acquiring and consuming more things. 

When you seek to avoid the mindset of materialism, you free both your mind and your spirit to be happy and present in your here and now life. True peace and happiness are the most compelling reasons to find fault with society's preoccupation with materialism. Avoiding that competitive thought process that always wants to have the same things that your friends, family, and neighbors have allows people to be happy and satisfied with what you already have. It's no longer necessary to stay current with the newest technological advances and the latest styles. You can be satisfied with the things you already have that serve the same purposes and work perfectly fine for you. 

Materialism also leads people to spend a lot of money, often unnecessarily. When you avoid materialism,  you can devise a strict budget for spending. It's also relatively easy to maintain this budget, because you no longer feel compelled to spend money on items you don't truly need. The money you save can be used for long-term goals such as retirement. You might also be able to afford a pleasant vacation with the money you save, making pleasant memories to think about in the future. 

There are many people who choose to use their lives to chase materialism. They want to have the latest and greatest gadgets and technology. Many of these materialistic people may have the financial means to lead this type of lifestyle. Even the wealthiest people can experience a more peaceful mindset, though, if they let go of the goals that push them toward acquiring more and more things. Instead, they can focus on other things that matter more, such as family relationships.

In the end, everyone needs to decide what type of lifestyle fits their personal wishes and goals. There's nothing to be lost by trying to avoid materialism for a period of time, though. Those who try this mindset are likely to find that the benefits far outweigh any negative drawbacks. Criticizing materialism involves many valid points that are impossible to refute. 
