Happiness is such a broad subject, the definition is different for everyone but really what is happiness? I, a person with a mental illness (that makes me feel dull most of the time) feel absoulety stumped on this subject... Happiness? I mean honestly it's a personal experiance, who am I to say happiness is this or happiness is that. Isn't happiness just a bunch of chemicals in your brain. Is happiness just focusing  your dreams, your goals, achievments, doing everything for yourself?
 
 You see you are not the only one who exist in this world that seems like such a bleak narssacist view of the world wouldn't. Don't you want the whole team winning, seeing peace and harmony with others isn't that the best. If you're having a bad day and you see a group of children having fun playing hopscotch on the side walk doesn't that make you feel better reminisant of being young and happy seeing other people enjoy life.  I believe happiness is a personal thing it depends who you are you can't just say universally happiness is this or that.   

 Happiness for me is my family. Taking a beating from the cruel world and coming home to the most excited little girls. "Mommas home,mommas home". thats' the best part of their day and that is something I didn't have I didn't have a person a thing to make me happy for the longest time and once I got  that wow it was somethimg. Happiness is broad I am not to know for I do not know much of happiness. I'm still learning, I personally believe it's your life you only get one do what makes you happy. Does making everyone else happy what makes you happy? Do that then. Is working on your self the only thing that keeps you smiling these days? Then do that for I do not know the answer to that... that's for you.

Anways, I guess getting down to the grit of it I believe different at times it's appropriate to focus on your self just because you're keeping other people happy doesn't mean that you are. Take a look at the burntout mothers or the exhausted underpaid worker at the gas station, the homeless man on the sidewalk, we are all just surviving. The world is cruel we could all be kinder to eachother, take care of eachother an ourselves . We are losing our humanity but we musn't forget to take care of ourselves I suppose it's a middle ground sort of subject... Happiness.                                            

