What would happen if you took away everyone's non-essential possessions? Well, a large majority of the world would become very unhappy. Materialism in modern society is a driving cultural force, especially within the United States and other Western nations. Materialism gives people meaning and goals to strive for, it lets a person express their social and economic status to others. There's also a darker side to it, where it can consume and become an obsession for people. It can drive them to never be satisfied or always crave something larger and lead them down unethical or even illegal paths to achieve it. A healthy balance needs to be reached between materialism and minimalism. That is why the criticism of materialism is very much important to modern society.

If everyone was able to get what they currently wanted most in this moment, that would only last for at most a year. Why? People would soon become complacent with their situation and want to consume their next desire. It is important for society to criticize the over-consuming and downright obsessive culture the US and many other nations are facing. It allows for open discussion and reasoning to cut back on spending, consuming, and producing. People that are able to step back out of the hunt for more often appreciate what they currently have more, they are able to process what they have in comparison to what they used to have and find pleasure in that.

The argument against these critiques might be that materialism won't disappear or that it will continue to run rampant regardless. The goal isn't to remove materialism from the world and take value away from people and their possessions. It is to put in perspective what is really important and what emotional and ethical values we should hold instead of monetary holdings. You will never remove materialism from the world, we have always put value in different things (clothing, pottery, etc.). However society as a whole should not have to spend money and copious amounts of energy to feel fulfiilled. With materialism you end up where we currently are, with large monopolistic companies who are run by men with too much money to even do anything with. Who have violated ethical truths to grow their wealth because they wanted more and were insatiable in their materialistic journey.

The other extreme is minimalism. Living for the bare minimum and being content and fulfilled by that. By no means should we as a society move to that, but striking a healthy balance between the two extremes could be beneficial. Taking time to consider why you want to chase and consume more so that you can consider if it is really worth it. Spending time considering what you are doing and thinking about the bare minimum you need to be happy.

The point is that materialism while healthy in doses, needs to constantly be put in check so that society can step back, appreciate where they currently are and compare it to the past. This will create a more fulfilling and lasting feeling than using credit cards and cash to purchase a sports car. So what will you do next, go purchase that purse or pair of shoes you've been eyeing? Or will you sit back and take a moment to appreciate what you've accomplished, appreciate what you have, and pour more energy into loving where you are at.
