Have you ever seen an ad on TV? Maybe the actor used to weigh a lot and this program helped them lose it all, or maybe they couldn't get any rest until they found this certain pillow that solved all of their problems. Maybe you've gone through the drive through and seen awhat looks like a wonderful burger on the sign and then whem you get it the reality is not quite what you had in mind. Images and impressions are an important part of what we take away from the world, and in an age where this is used to sell us things constantly the effect may be costing us way more than we can really afford. 

We are comstantly pushed images of the perfect food, perfect boyfriend, perfect friend, perfect everything if only we do what this person is doing. I think that this has a negavtive effect on people as a whole. Makes the ones that aren't living up to the perfection feel as if they aren't good enough, might even make them sad that they can't live up to the same standards. The thing is this isn't real tricks are used to make these things and people look perfect. Photoshop, professional makeup, tricks of the trade. So people take in the impressions and interenalize them as something to strive to, they can only hope that doing the things will lead them to success, but at the end of the day they are internalizing fairytales. 

Now some might say that something to strive to is always a good thing, an important thing, and while that may be true, what people are striving to needs to be realistic. When people are constanlty bombarded by things it will be internilized, something they may not even realize they  are doing, a measuring stick they aren't even aware they are holding. So to say that people can shake of the images and impressions they are left with is an oversight, some may be able to, but for the majority this simply isn't the case. 

Imagine your walking throught the supermarket, you are looking for something to take home to make for dinner. As you walk through the deli the delightful smell of chicken wafts slowly by and then yanks you in that direction. Instead of heading to the otherside of the store you head to the deli and pick up the chicken for dinner instead. In this seneraio you have been influenced by what is haappening around you, and while it may seem like a small thing it's just one of many that can be found happening everyday in most peoples lives.

Images and impressions have a heavy effect on the people that are comsuming them. It is a dangerous and possibly damaging thing to let these things have so much of an effect. The worst part? It's all in the design. So next time you see a bright candy bar or smell the butter melting at the movie theaters, ask yourself, is this something I want or is this something I am being told to want?
