In modern society, in our culture of fast fashion, planned obsolescence and throwaway everything, it's easy to criticize people for their loyalty to consumerism and keeping up with the Joneses. But are they wrong? Do they deserve our ire?

It's easy to look at this as a moral failing of the individual: is their need for mindless consumption, personal convenience and objects are symbols of status problematic? But to leave it at that leaves a lot out of the picture and lets a lot of people off the hook. It's important to zoom out and examine the systems in which that individual lives. An imperial capitalist society such as the United States and so many of the nations in the grasp of its influence does not reward satiety or adequacy. Those in power in the oligo-fascist nation of the United States require evermore consumption to maintain their power and wealth. In a place where it's illegal to repair your own electronics and throw-away plastics were made so ubiquitous that one might not even realize they're called "disposable razors" because there's a non-disposable alternative, can you blame any individual? US Americans are absolutely inundated with advertising at all hours of the day, and the advent of social media "influencers" as evermore blurred the line between curated content designed to make you feel like part of a crowd and social relationships. Besides that, the science & craft of getting people to buy another thing or five that they don't need is well studied, and very effective. One can hardly fault people for behaving exactly as our species is wired to. While there does come a time when there's a personal responsibility to spread awareness of these forces working against us to trick us into buying more and more stuff we need, the process of unplugging from consumerism requires a huge step outside of the comfort zones of most people, and that's not an easy thing to ask--to fight against these billion-dollar industries and all of their well-funded tools and resist your conditioning.

So while individual materialism adds to the overall problem of national and global overconsumption, it's hard to say that modern society itself is exclusively or even mostly at fault. The owners of these companies could be spending their unbelievable hoarded wealth to make sure no one on the entire planet ever starved to death again, and instead they spend it making us want to buy more plastic, more trash, more, more, more. Who's to blame?
