Materialism is now a huge part of todays society. people crave to have the latest and greatest technology, clothing, shoes and cars and houses. Even coming down to how many people will follow them on social media platforms. treating their fellow humans as a new sort of "material" to aquire. The race to show others how much online "clout" they have by showing off how much "stuff" they have aquired has become the end game for many people to strive to be now a days.

People now consider their peers as a source of "currency" using the amount of physical views, comments and likes as a form of payment to feed the ego of these "influencers" thus making more and more young people strive for as much materialistic possesions as they can aquire in the hope of being the next big thing in social media.

Now, with society running at the soeed of light and shoveling out new tech ever couple of months in creates the need for many to either keep up with the latest and great piece of technology. Or, feel irrelevant for not doing what their friends and family are doing. And some will even get shamed for not having the newest and greatest. thus an endless cycle of mass consumerism will keep feeding this new founded human need. Aquiring as much as you possibly can before your time runs out!

So modern society should be criticized for being way to materialistic, we should all focus on much more simpler things, learn to slow down a little. Take things a little easy and not worry so much on what new gadget is gonna hit the market, or what pair of shoes is the  hardest to aquire therefore I just "gotta have it! With all of that energy, we could slow the destruction of the planet around. stop making so many new phones and electronics that'll just end up in a landfill somewhere or, in the middle of the ocean. Stop spending all that money, time and energy on meaningless things for yourself and spend that on things that will help future generations enjoy this place while they still have the means to do so. 
