Since the dawn of mind, human and other humanoids (like neandethals or apes, monkeys etc...) have always strives for anything that gives them a hit of dopamine, stimulating their senses, and making the user feel emotions of happiness. The way they achieved this is by achieving their own personal goals or finding happiness in others. So if these are the two main ways people obtain happiness, is one better than the other. Not necessarily, they are both valid ways to achieve happiness,but pondering about this in a logical viewpoint, one method applies to more people than the other, making it the most likely way to achieve happiness based just on numbers alone. That method is being happy for others, or simply called love.

Love is what everyone strives to achieve, and in the modern age the process has been simplified, to apps like Tinder and Bumble, making it a simpler way to mate and find love. So how is love the same as being happy for others? Love is a mutual beneficial relationship between two parties, that enjoy being happy for the other. They will congratulate you on your job raise, or for getting into college, or giving birth to your child. The way your significant other looks at your kid, or the way your kid looks at you. This is all ways in which you find happiness in others. Humans are social creatures, we love spending time with other people and engrossing ourselfs into their lives. This is what brings humans happiness, and is what drives the world. The world is run by trust, trust is what gives value to currency, trust gives value to so many things that wouldnt have value otherwise.  This trust allows you to find love.

In retrospect, people are simply more likely to find happiness in others because its what humans have been trying to do since the dawn of time. To find the one person who understands them and loves them for who they are. A person who will be their partner in crime, who will make your goals their goals. Life is just a game of cat and mouse, people may think the way to find happiness is to chase their goals. The truth is depending on your goal, outside factors may change your goal, some unexpected event may come and prevent you from ever reaching it. One should always have goals but dont let that be the only way you achieve happiness.
