I believe that happiness comes from both pursuing your own goals as well as helping other with their goals along the way. There is nothing wrong with pursing your own goals. I belive that it is important for everyone to have a pacific goal of their own that they should set for themselves and focus on trying  achieving to acomplish. How can anyone expect to help someone with their goal if they haven't set on for themselves? First, set a goal that is achievable and also list a set of step you will need to do in order to get your goal acomplished. Then go out and starting working on your goal. I don't believe anyone can be a help to anyone if you don't first walk a mile in a person shoes. After you have achieved your goals or acomplished them, you can now working on helping someone else with their goals. They will also need to first list what the goal is and the number of steps it will take to achieve this goal. Then maybe write out what they can start on with the steps. Some steps maybe harder than other. This person may need some help and thats where you will come in. 

I think it important to also pick and choice a goal that is truely aciviveable, please do not set your self up for failuer by choising a goal that you know you can not acomplish, for example winning a lottery or learning to read minds. I think tha it is important to pick a goal that you can truly work on and achieve. Happiness can come of both of these things. Some people take pride in helpling other and it can bring them much joy in doing so, and with other some people take joy in acheive a goal they have set for themselves, basically a self goal that is finally acomplished and something to be proud about. Its is up to you to defind what will bring you happiness. I do believe that is is possible to have both bring you joy. I personally thinking helping other with their goals is a greater form of happyness. To know that you help someone acomplish their goal is a loving warm feeling. And who is to say that this wont also help encourage other to do the same thing. A sort of domino affect. They might soon also feel the need to help others with their goals. I beleive that in doing so, this will slowlying spreading down to others. Happiness can also come from one person who is pursing their dreams and finally seeing is come to light. A sort of self acommlishment if you will,  I don't believe there is anything wrong with either side, what matter is that your head and heart are in the right place.  It up to you to deicided what will make you the happiest. 

Setting goals for one self will not be easy for everyone, neither will helping someone else with their goals. Self-doubt may come into play. You will need to be patient and work on it slowly with much determination as possible. Make sure that you believe in yourself and don't feel the need to rush ahead. Don't try to foucs on the wrong things. At the end remember that you are here to help encorage and offer suppurt when and if it is needed. I believe that people will respect that you care enough to help and will be greatful for you time. Helpling someone with their goals is very fulling and rewarding itself. I hope that everyone looks within to see which one will give you joy. Remember that happiness if the goal within itself. This question alone might help determine what kind of person you will become or might already be in life. 
