The effects of images and impressions all around us are evident in every aspect of our lives, we buy things we do not need or even really want based soley on the images that we are bombarded with in every day life, from social media to news to walking down the street.  We as a society are basted in attractive images from retailers and resellers of every imaginable product, the fact that every company has an entire department dedicated to making sure their product "appears" the best rather than depatments dedicated to making sure their product IS the best speaks volumes about the goals and ambitions of the corporations in the world that we live in today.

My theory on why this is so prevalent in today's society is simply this, we as a people, the people evolved from the a generation that was more about the needed than the wanted, have been given everything we could ever want and therefore have never wanted for a single thing.  We don't know or understand what it is to need and therefore have lost all meaning of the word, want has become synonymous with need in today's society.  We NEED smartphones, we NEED instant access to every possible thing around us, we need faster and better access to the same things that our predecessors had no problem waiting days, weeks, months for.  Consider transportation and delivery of goods and services even 20 years ago, if we were to go back to the early 2000's which is not all that long ago considering the human lifespan and tell the denizens of that time that they would have access to information delivery that was as fast as it is in today's world of gigibit internet they would lock you up and throw away the key as a crazy person.  Tell them you could 3d print a working functional prototype of a product that is so complex that is unimaginable that it was made in your own home and they might just might think you a witch.

The world has gotten to the point where we can without ever leaving our home get delivery of anything in the world and the things we choose all go back the the shininess and desirability of the packaging that we had delivered to us rather than the actual funcionality of the prouduct. In the recent past it was all simple packaging surrounding products build to last, products that would stand up to the test of time, now we produce packaging that will stand out in the landfill right next to the products it once contained because nothing is built to last.  You might think that is has to be this way, that the human brain has always gone for the most shiny and pretty object but I believe that we could be trained as a civilization to go back to our forefathers way of buying what matters, things that will last, without built in obselecence.  There is nothing inherently wrong with an attractive package or advertisement however the thing inside that spangled wrapper should match the outside in qulity and integrity.  But what is wrong with liking pretty things, we gravitate toward those things that engage our minds, take us where we want to be, do what we otherwise could not all from looking at it?  Nothing.  As long as the product that the advertisement or packaging stands for CAN do these things, can stand on it's own and withstand the test of time.  Look at people, all too often we judge a book by it's cover we base our decisions on what we see in the media, we decide our political affiliations on the advertisements made by the marketing team of a candidiate, again a team of people dedication to making sure that the things you see about their "product" are what appeal to you rather than the truth.

We as a generation deserve more than a pretty exterior that houses the maximum amount of fecal matter that can be quickly excreted into the package as fast as possible, we owe it to ourselves to concentrate on buying quality once again rather than being so wrapped up in how quickly it can get to us and how fast it can be produced.  We need more content and less consumption, the same can be said of our habits that have been developed while buying food, we go for the pretty big mac, rather than the home cooked meal, the savings to our time ourweigh the negative outcome on our society and the impact it has on our family health and happiness. We deserve to see the truth about what we are investing our time, money and energy into, without the clever marketing and pretty branding that has been applied by teams dedicated to ensuring that their, drink, meal, presidential candidate, toy, game, book, movie, or other product is the "best".  We owe it to ourselves and our children to learn to do better and to teach others to do better for a better world.
