"I want my baby back, baby back... I want my baby back, chili baby back ribs... barbeque sauce!" is a little jingle from an older Chili's commercial.  This jingle, nearly two decades later, still leaves an impression on individuals around the world. Clever images and video advertisements may have too much of an effect on people. The colorfulness of packages, words of politicians, or the jingles to hit commercials may actually appear to be more important than the actual product or service.

If we take this Chili's commercial and break it down, we may not find much else we know about the service provided. Our basic common sense tells us that Chili's is a restaurant and the jingle tells us that they serve baby back ribs as one of their main selections. Besides this basic information, what else do we know about these ribs? What kind of rib meat are they made from? How exactly is it made? What rubs or spices do they use in the cooking process? How much is this going to cost the customer? In actuality, we do actually do not know very much. We are left with a jingle that is stuck in our heads and that is about all! 

We could always play devil's advocate and say that the jingle did what it was supposed to do. Perhaps, customers came in flocks to their local Chili's restaurant and tried out those baby back ribs - and anything else they found on their colorful and thought-grabbing menu. This may very well be a win in their book as it brought them more business. However, you have to believe that people are only responsible for themselves. Each person is responsible for what they do with the information given to them, and what exactly they put into their bodies. Just maybe this little jingle only brought them to the restaurant but they had to live through the experience to know whether it was the right choice for them.

The same could be said for politicians. When people are running for president, for example, they are putting their best sides out there for the world to see. They are, of course, there to win a campaign so that they can be in a position of power. It is up to the people of our country to decipher through the statements, the advertisements, the commercials, the debates, and so on. We can only see how better off our country is after they are sworn in. Sometimes we find that these politicians aren't all they are cracked up to be, and that we may have become victim to their word game. "Make America Great Again" was such a huge phrase that was all over the country during its time but there wasn't much that came from it but dishonesty and disappointment. 

In conclusion, we, as individuals, need to be more aware of the advertisements that we take in - whether it's on a television, the radio, or over the internet. We should use our cognitive thinking skills and reasoning to be sure we are not mistaking anything or anyone over reality. Research has shown us that advertisements that come from companies, or even individuals, may not always be as truthful or informative as we hoped they would be. There is always more to learn and experience. We shouldn't let advertisements, or anyone, take away from our experiences.
