Why do people criticize materialism? It is possibly because greed is commonly known to be a sin, and the accumulation of possessions has been characterized as a greed for more things. However, many positions, when taken to extremes, can actually hurt society. 

I firmly believe that materialism has a positive effect on society, provided that it is not taken too far.  After all, much of our economy depends on producing objects which are not crucial to survival, or to creating experiences that consumers do not need to experience in order to live. Just consider how difficult it would become for people in the clothing industry, for example, if everyone limited their wardrobe to two or three outfits at a time. Such a simplified lifestyle would result in many people losing their jobs, or being forced to go without necesities. Some people would say that they could then work as farmers, but there are not so many farms or ranches that they can provide jobs, with decent wages, for everyone who works in the clothing or entertainment industry. While I am not suggesting that people overfill their closets, the fact remains that buying materialistic things helps keep cash in circulation. There is of course an argument that perhaps we could just grow our own food, and that if we buy less we need less, but this would be a difficult thing to do. The drastic restructuring of any society is very difficult; there are protests by dissenters, issues arise which cause chaos, and it takes a very long time. Besides, since modern farming and factory techniques already produce the necesities of life much more efficiently than any individuals could, it would hardly make sense to revert to a much less efficient version of society. For these reasons, I do not believe that the idea of materialism should be criticized, if only because it, in the long run, provides jobs for everyone.

In the long run, materialism is a benefit to modern society, and thus should not be criticized. While anything can be taken to excess, buying birthday presents and trips is an important way to support our economy. Due to modern efficiency, every industry, even if not responsible for creating the necesities of life, still enable people to work at positions which pay them the necessary wages to buy life's essentials, among other things.
