From my perspective being materialistic means possession of properties or goods. Who does't love new shoes, dresses, houses or cars, I believe every human being loves all the good staff there is in the, market. Access to all these goods is impossible without acces to money. To make it look more demonic the need to have money to accesss the good staff is termed generally as materialistic in our communities.

But is having the love for what money can buy that immoral? The answer is definetely no! What is wrong with loving good things in this short life? This love has a driving force that wake people to go to school;, get to their work stations on time and work their hearts out to have the money to buy the good materials life  has to offer. Without being materialistic, life has a stand still sense. People no longer need to work, no need fror education and hence the whole life would have a stagnant undeveloped posture. 

The hunger to have more good houses, cars, dresses and food which is the actually being materialistic keeps the wheels of life rolling. The tradional perspective of materiastic being an immoral spirit was enterely not wrong in the past. People used to leave in communities, they worked together and mostly shared what came out of their communal work. This however cannot work in our current community, people have the individualistic way of life. It what you work for that belogs to you. It your greed for more materials that will push you to archieving it. Sometimes this is by default, without having good money means poor life in general. Why should anyone judge us for wanting a better life, is'nt having good staffs what a better life simply means?

Being materialistic should however be controlled because when in excess, it attracts some immoral activities like corruption, theft and sometimes jealous which can aggregate to murder. This is what criticizers of materialistc people hang on. They believe that people huge urge to have more good things in life is immoral because it leads them to doing illegal activities.Ask any of them, hey buddy what does a new house sound like? They will love it.

The bottom line is that, being materialistic is an important spirit within everybody. The only difference is what one does with it. Do you se it as a pushing factor to working hard and learning more to acquire god things in life or do you use it a pushing factor to illegal access of properties.


