Happiness comes from within. This can be seen by looking at the Guiness Book of World Records 'Happiest Man in the World' who has a brain that emmits the strongest and most consistent gamma waves ever recorded. By focusing on one's own goals it greatly takes away from the search from happiness. By focusing on the happiness of others it also slightly takes away from the search of happiness. One is much closer to the goal of finding happiness. The closest between the two one can get to happiness is focusing on the happiness of others.

This is because first and foremost, happiness  can be found from learning to emit compassion for all things that someone experiences. This even includes emitting compassion while suffering or seeing the suffering of other things. By focusing on others someone is then taking an effort to humanize people they may not understand. This empathy leads to a form of limitlessness that can be found when one truly finds happiness. Compassion allows someone to see a broader worldview than they are originally accustomed to. In turn it can create a paradigm shift within people to understand that by giving of themselves they are more likely to find the beauty that comes with happiness.

Happiness is elusive to most, more elusive than love. It escapes even the greatest of men. It is said that after Alexander the Great conquered all of the known world and had everything any man could ever obtain, he sat down and cried. Someone who gained all their goals could ever amount to was still not happy. True happiness seems impossible to a great number of people. When people spend all their time chasing something they become exhausted from never catching it. Trying to obtain personal goals shows a form of egotism that people can be consumed in. Even if their goal is to simply be happy. By someone focusing and dedicating their lives to the happiness of others, people show a form of altruism that is rare to see in the world. Altruism has a thought provoking converse relationship with happiness. Logically it doesn't seem to make sense that giving away emotional energy and time to other people would lead to someone being happy. Altruism however has been found to have a direct coorelation with finding happiness. By consistently giving back to the world and showing love and compassion to others it creates a feedback loop of understanding that there are much important motives to give one's self to than their own ego. This in turn allows one to find happiness within one's own self.
