In a world where people are always trying to get ahead and achieve individual success, it can be difficult to work in harmony with others.  However, there are two ways to achieve success.  They are working with others, or going it alone.  Some would argue that it is better to work in a group since it brings a diversity of ideas, and work can be distributed among the team to achieve a successful outcome.  However, working in a group can have a degree of "social loafing" where there may be a member of the group, or multiple members, that slack off and do not do as much work as others in the group.  This can hinder the efficiency of the group, and lead to a sub-par outcome.  Working in a group can also cause a degree of competition among members, which can be a good thing, or a bad thing, leading to faster work, or even sabotage among members.  With this in mind, it is better to work alone to achieve your goals.  

Working alone is the best most efficient way to achieve a successful outcome.  Especially among very driven individuals.  Working in a group can be slow, trying to get everyone on the same page at the same time, can lead to scheduling conflicts and inefficiency in carrying out tasks.  While working alone, it is only the individual that is responsible for the outcome, and no one esle is to blame for failure.  

Some would argue that working cooperatively is the best way to achieve success.  You can divvy out assignments, so that all the work can be done in segments, producing a successful whole. The problem is, that not all workers have the same drive and willpower, and social loafing may arise.  A worker may be inefficient or just plane lazy, so others may have to pick up their slack.  Also, when in a group, strong leadership is neccessary to lead the team in the right direction.  If a group does not have good leadership, they are destined to fail.  Competition and rivalries may arise within memebers of the group, which can be positive, but also may lead to some workers sabatoging the work of another, to get ahead.  Diversity of ideas may be a good thing in group work, but individuals may disagree with eachothers ideas, which can lead to slow-down and inefficiency. 

With all this in mind, working individually is the best way to achieve success.  You have no one else to blame if your goals are not met.  There will be no bickering among members of the group, or social loafing.  At the end of the day, success is achieved by the individual, not by individuals in a group.  

In conclusion, there are both positives and negatives in working cooperation with others in a team.  However, the negatives far outweigh the positives.  So the most efficient way to acheive success is to work independently.  It is like the old saying, "If you want something done right, do it yourself."  It is this spirit of independence that has always been the cornerstone to any successful person.  Being part of a successful team requires a great deal of strong individual effort, but a team is only as strong as it's weakest link.  Going it alone, so to speak, does not have to factor any weak link into the equation.  Getting things done by yourself is the most efficient way of producing these much desired significant, lasting accomplishments.  
