Competition drives so much of the American social culture. At work, two coworkers will compete to see who can bring in the most sales. In school, students will compete to see who can earn the highest grades. However, is competition really the only driving force that can provide worthwhile results? In the bigger scheme of things will history books remember the individual accomplishments of one person over another? Inside of this context one could argue that the acomplishments that made the most differences in the lives of human beens have been acomplisments that could have only been achieved through the efforts of an entire group of people. The discovery of DNA could only occur through the contributions of several people, named and unnamed. Similarily, every successful infrastructure that exists came about from the contribution of many and not just from the efforts of a single individual. Therefore, it can be argued that cooperation, rather than competition, is the major driving force behind the success of the human race. 

The individual, the single person, can only accomplish so much within their lifetime. Humans have limits. Human reach their end physcially and emotionally. "There is only so much I can do and no more." People need to sleep, eat, deffacate, and replenish themselves mentally. Is there any value in competition between two beings that relatively have the same limits? Any attempt of competition would only succeed in patting the egos of both involved and only impact that micro world of their egos and their immediate envirnment. Is that enough to justify the competition to begin with?

In this complex world, effort of one individual rarely reaches accross the lines of generations to impact the human race as a whole. Each human is born to die, and with their death comes the end of their efforts. We combat this inevitablility by having childring, spreading our seed, and hopefully passing on not only our DNA, but our ideals, our beliefs, our hopes, dreams, and efforts. Yet, the impacts of the individual across generations are not guarenteed as it all depends on the attitude of the successor. Will the child continue the family business? Will they continue the skills passed down? Will the offspring utilize the efforts and sacrifices of the former generation? That is why competition crumbles as a means of sucesss. The individual can only go so far. It is not until several people work together, either throughout generations, or in the same generation does the impact of one multiply to be the impact of the many and make an actual difference in the world we all exist in.

It can be argued that olympic athletes do provide a valuable contribution to their group, and their countries through their individual contirbutions. Success in competition is their contribution to society. In this example, the competition goes hand in and with success. But, it still can be asked: how much does that contribution changee and equate to the success of the human race as a whole? The competition can help bring people and countries together, quell country conflicts, and help citizens of one country understand another. All of these concepts are valuable contributions. However, is the Olympics the only means to achieve these goals? No. Without the Olympics there are innumerable ways to go about achieve the same goals. Once again, competition is unnessessary.


