They say first impressions last. This is why we always try to show our best foot forward during a first date or a job interview. We always want to present ourselves in the best light possible because we want people to like us and think that we are amazing. People put too much stock on their image these days that the standards have become ridiculous in my opinion.

Best example for  this is Instagram. All these Instagram models and influencers try to present this ideal life or image on their profiles for everyone to admire. They take these gawdy camera setups and tripods into restaurants just to take pictures of what they are eating at the moment. They also try to edit selfie pictures to enhance certain parts of their bodies to present to the masses what a perfect body needs to look like. And for what? For likes and comments and at the end of the day, validation. That's exactly what they want. The more likes, comments and shares they get on their recent post, the better they feel about themselves. 

This is dangerous in away since you have all these teenagers and kids logging into their own profiles and seeing all these "perfect" influencers and thinking that, that's what they need to look like to be accepted and liked by society. That leads to them hating themselves a lot of times because they are trying to emulate something that is fake or made up. A lot of times, this leads to depression, bullying and sadly, suicide.

Image and impressions do have too much of an effect on people and a lot of times, we lose track of what's actually real since we have created this alternate reality in our heads of what we think is perfect. Understandably, this is important when we are applying for a job or applying into a new college but we need to change this way of thinking.

The best thing to do in my opinion, is to try and list certain qualities that you want to have in your head, then work towards achieving them. Things that you can easily achieve, like having a certain level of education or having a certain job. As far as our physical image is concerned, there is only so much we can do, but we can do stuff like work out and take care of ourselves more by eating better to get closer to being our ideal self. If we work towards being our ideal self and ideal image, then it would be more fulfilling and it would be more authentic and we would live a happier life.


