Appearances are, at their core, deceptive. At least that is a common fact that we quickly accept for everything except ourselves and the cultures that surround us. Product branding, the vanity of the smiling faces on television... content is thrown aside in favor of flashiness or appeal to the ephemeral, or whatever else someone feels they need to see in that moment in order to be entertained. "Form over function" is the new motto that the world operates on and that will not change in the foreseeable future. Images and impressions formed on the surface level are often times enough to seep into one's overall opinion on a person or product, and the actual content of someone's character or a product's usage holds no weight.

This fact has been seen countless times in the past - for example, take a clash between two candidates for a position. One may mean well and have a solid foundation full of planks that benefit the people, but if they show up to a debate slightly unkempt, their words may fall on deaf ears. Consumers jump quickly on the newest, flashy products and brands, but they never stop to think whether or not the product is reliable or if the brand stands for similar values that are worthy of being associated with. Even worse is that companies are acutely aware of how to reel consumers in, and the cycle of mindlessness is perpetuated.

It should be clearly stated that, to some degree, images and impressions can be an important (and fairly accurate) indicator of a person's character or a product's purpose. The aforementioned unkempt candidate may have the best policies, but that does not excuse a lack of a hygiene. Flashy products and brands may be wonderful new devices that help millions - the implications do not go in either direction necessarily. However, the issue with images and impressions comes from the sheer level of persuasion and impact they are allowed to have. 

In a vaccum, it is the consumers' fault that they are swayed so heavily by these factors, but we are not in this position. Brands know what they are doing... as do people. They purposefully create these branding and marketing tactics to manipulate consumers. People purposefully put on false bravado or mislead with their qualifications to manipulate their audiences. An individual can not be blamed for succumbing to the saccharine branding that a company chooses to promote at select times of the year. This is not fair - what is fair is blaming those that are intentionally misleading others, as that is their intent.

The world is not as it appears, and this is by design. Images and impressions given are not natural, but rather fed. When this is all that people know (especially in the younger generations), that becomes the new normal. When consumers stop promoting these tactics and start being victims is an argument for a different essay on a different day, but it is clear that any single consumer in society is antagonized to some degree by companies' false advertisements and media personalities' flashiness. One immediate positive change to society is to bring function back to the forefront over form. Products need to be judged off their effectiveness and stability and individuals need to be judged more on their genuine character. The age of appearances needs to end!
