     While healthy competition can be effective at producing results, a more direct way to promote lasting, positive accomplishments in any forum would be through the means of cooperation. In some cases, competition is the name of game, including sports, political elections, and workplaces. The whole nature of these types of activities is to produce at least two opposing teams or candidates who either compete on an athletic or academic level to have a winner emerge from the two. Same as in politics, it is better to have a pool of people to choose from in which to elect the proper person for the job. Competition in these types of situations are what is needed. Even in employment facilities competition can be an effective tool when incentives are offered to who makes the most sales or has the least amount of safety violations. People can and will try to compete against each other to win the prize and indirectly help the company grow at the same time. However, in life in general, cooperation is the key way to keep people happy, promote a healthy environment, and therefore be more productive overall.
     Competition within an employment situation can sometimes create bad feelings within the workforce. Feelings of jealousy and unhappiness will make for a very trying and unsuccessful place to be. Employees would not looking forward to coming to work in such an environment. Promoting cooperation though between employees especially would go a long way to establishing a well run establishment. People working together in a work environment, in any type of entity would foster good relations, in turn making a nice place overall to be.
     Within a cooperative environment, people have a chance of achieveing their goals more easily because they know that others will be there to support them throughout their journey. They know that each individual can develop and hone in on their skillsets without the worry of being on a timetable. People will know that in a cooperative environment, they will be able to ask questions, ask for help and support without anyone trying to sabotage them in any way. Working together with others will create solutions to problems that pop up, not create new ones. It will also bring people together in ways that will go beyond just the environment they are in, that cooperation mindset will go with them wherever they go as well. The accomplishments and goals that can be achieved through cooperation will last far longer than the short term results of a competitive culture. They will most likely snowball so that more and more goals are acheived and last a significantly substantially longer time than anything seen under a competitive situation. Therefore, cooperatioin will always create relationships and accomplishments that will far outlast any acheivements gained through competition.
