Materialism, I feel, gets a bad rap. While we do live in a culture and enjoy lifestyles that are based on consumerism, I don't feel that most Americans are "material boys or girls". I do feel that the success of America has, at this time in history, been largely based on consumerism. I do not believe that modern society should be criticized for being materialistic in the truest sense but I also feel that learning what an individual loves and purchasing things from the heart and not based on wanting to impress or gain approval from others could greatly cut down on the amount of things that we feel we "need" in our lifestyles.

I went through a time in my life, where I became a minimalist. When I say I became a minimalist, I do mean to the absolute extreme. I lived in my car. I ended up selling or giving away most of my belongings. I would not accept any form of charity. I believed that most luxuries were not true needs and I shamed myself for wanting anything fancy (even like hot tea). I learned to be very resourceful. I learned to get very creative with getting my needs met. I spent a great deal of time in a Whole Foods. I would buy frozen veggies and use their microwave for my meals. Later, once the pandemic hit, I learned to eat my frozen peas and corn simply by thawing them. I told myself that I didn't need much. After I sold my car to survive, I lived in Laundermats at night and slept in the Mother's room at a Hyvee during the day. I ended up giving most of my remaining belongings to charity. It became about what I could carry and those were the things that I would be able to keep. I ended up having to make some very hard choices and ended up wearing layers of clothing so that I would be able to keep a basic set of clothes. I found myself having to be very practical and to only pay for the things that I needed. I learned a lot during my time as a minimalist, but I do not believe it is the "ideal" way to live.

After I asked for help, (I was at the point of starvation), I moved in with my parents and my way of life changed. I found it very hard to keep anything for a time. I found myself finding it very easy to give away the things that I did receive from people (I did accept charity by that point) and I kept my few belongings in a cube in the bedroom. I orginally became a minimalist because I was told I was a material girl and I needed to learn what it was like to be more humble and live with less. I found it very hard to transition out of that way of thinking and that way of life. To this day, I am doing much better, but I am much more careful about the things that I purchase. I take a lot more care. I try to buy things that I know that I will need, that have a purpose to me, or that my heart is truly saying yes to. I will rarely buy things on impulse. 

I share my story above to make a point. I don't feel that we need to critizise people for wanting to be happy, to do things that they enjoy, and to have simple pleasures as well as occassional splurges. I do feel that so many people are now being shamed for buying more luxurious items and having a more indulgent lifestyle, but I think this needs to be said. You can love luxery and NOT being a material boy or girl. You can take care with your purchases and buy things that you truly to love, being mindul of your bank account and what is reasonable for you, and have some nice things. You can have a designer Prada bag that you took care to purchase and saved up for, and not be a modern day Princess. I think we are too quick to shame people for their lifestyle choices. I think that we need to do away with these labels that we can be so quick to place on people.

I do feel that it is actually become "trendy" to purchase less but receive more in terms of quality. You can be a little bit more minimal in your shopping and live a more luxurious lifestyle. You can be a social media influencer and not have closets over flowing with things that you do not wear and at the same time have tried and true favorites that you really love that may just be from designer brands like Gucci or Prada. One such Youtube Influencer is the channel Freddy My Love. The girl lives a more luxurious lifestyle but she is very mindful of what she can spend and what she budgets for. She takes great care in her purchases but at the same time does her best to purchase things that she truly loves and are authentic and true to her style. 

In conclusion, I do believe that materialsim is real, but I feel that so much of what is looked at as materialsim isn't truly what it is. I feel that there is a new trend toward being more minimalist with our purchases but buying more quality things that may be more expensive. We don't have to be a true minimalist to be a good person. I think we can have indulgences and enjoy the finer things in life and do so in a way that is truly sustainable for us as individuals and for the world we live in. 
