Modern society should be criticized somewhat for being materialistic. In today's society people are often judged by what they have, what they are able to purchase, and their ability to gain more. People seem to put more value in the person depending on what they have rather than the non material things that they possess. 
 

I believe that modern society should be criticized for ths behavior because many people are just so focused on the material side of life. They focus on money, possessions, and things. People need to start valuing people and for the qualities that they possess rather than the things that money are able to buy. I feel this way because while things are important, they are not everything.

I know that people will disagree with me and they can focus on having more money and things.  They will argue that having money and possessions allows them to live a certain way. While this may be true, if you take all of this away, will they be happy? Some people might argue that they would be, but I think many people try to find their happiness in the things that they purchase. Obtaining material items only create temporary happiness and after a certain amount of time, they are looking for something else to make them happy and look for what they could buy next for that fulfillness. 

As far as I am concerned, modern society should be criticized for their materialistic ways. I believe that the focus should be based on what people actually possess within themselves rather than what they have material wise. I believe that people should accept people find their happiness outside of material items and realize that true wealth and happiness cannot be bought. It is within themselves and it doesn't cost a thing.

So in conclusion, I do, in fact, believe that modern society should be criticized for being so materialistic. It has been rightly and well deserved to warrant criticism to modern society based on statistics and that show just how high people value materialism and the value they place on obtaining things.


 




