The question presented to us today, "Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others?"
 This question cannot be answered simply, because to boil this down to a yes or no, either or answer would be saying that all people are inherently the same, and that all people would fall into either or category of what would create hapiness for them, and these boxes are too small to shoehorn people into.

Some people are only happy when pleasing others, making others days and lives better, heading off conflict or unpleasantness by being a yes man or woman. Others are so hard wired to create and achieve personal goals and tick off boxes on their personal goals sheet, that no matter who or what they inconvenience or even hurt on thier way to acheive the goals they have set for themselves, they will just steamroll ahead in pursuit of their dreams and goals. 

I think we are missing a third option of personality type that lands somewhere in the middle of personality A and personality B, which is the type of person that has dream and goals, but isnt so single minded that they ignore anything and everything around them in order to achieve their goals. This type of person, we will call them type C, is more of a balanced personality. They have goals and dreams, but they are also willing to take time out of their day to help others acheive their goals and dreams. 

All in all I believe that true happiness, healthy happiness would be aligned more with a type C personality beacuse there is a balance. All things in moderation, having goals is a good thing but not at the expense of everything else, and making other people happy is a good thing but not at the expense of yourself. This type of personality I believe is the best of both worlds, consideration for self and consideration for others. I believe that being a solid A only or B only personality would be harmful to a person mentally, and I find that people who are extraordinarily driven and focused can be very talented and successful, but tend to put an enormous amount of pressure on themselves to succeed at any cost. Type B personality in this scenario also put an enormous amount of pressure on themselves to succeed in a different way, but putting themselves last and everyone else around them first, which can be rewarding at times because it is satisfying to help someone else and make their day better, but you cannot pour from an empty cup and if you spend all of your time focused on others and none of your time focused on yourself, you end up neglecting yourself and causing even more stress. I have seen first hand how people pleasers tend to constantly second guess their decisions, wavering between one choice and another on how the response to their choice will unfold. They spend so much time worrying about how their choice will affect the other person that they dont stop to think about whether or not that choice is a healthy one for themselves. The emotional aspect of this type of personality, I believe, is the hardest part for them to deal with. They are so constantly worried about how others will react towards the choices that they make, that they fail to consider themselves in the equation, and are later left wondering why they are so unhappy. The often find themselves in a "between a rock and a hard place" situation, trying to make everyone happy and succeeding mostly in making themselves miserable. 

As stated earlier, I believe true happiness comes from a combination of the two types of personalities, a balance between giving and striving and determination and empathy. Taking time for oneself to complete tasks and goals to better oneself and situation, but still being aware that others may need a boost from time to time, that others may need your time to make their situation better, even if sometimes the expense of your time can set you back a bit in your own personal goals. A balance of selfishness and empathy would be the healthier option all around, and create a happier more fulfilled person in general. 
