Images and impressions are two very different things and it comes down to the processing of images which makes each person unique and special.  We are taught many things, we are bombarded with pressure from humans around us and our thoughts are not innocent for long.  Maybe naive is better than innocent.  Essentially it isn't long before a toddler begins to understand that another is not exactly what they are.  That is due to guile which is used by us without restraint until begin to become want is currently being called "mindful".  That state is beyond the scope of this but until a person can come to realize the they can step back, look and truly "realize" they are unaware of the powerful influences they are under.

Take for example the things we've been told over and over again.  You need to earn respect!  But if the "meek inherit the world" then doesn't earning respect seem a bit silly?  I tell it this way to my nephews.  Imagine you see someone leaving a bank with a huge smile on their face.  You stop them and say "Friend, did you just pay off your house?!?" and he replies "No!  I just took out a huge loan for sports car, I'm going to earn me some interest!"  You'd likely try to explain to him but you would likely be rebuked...called jealous...and so on.  Your friend doesn't understand yet.  That's okay, because you do now.  What if respect is not a credit, but instead a debit to your account?  Given what we think we have from the world's greatest teachers it seems that would be the case.

But let's take one step closer to see what the issue really is.  The issue is paradox.  We are humans, we have great difficult with paradox.  Yet it is in fact the acceptance of paradox and the reasoning through that gives us the ability to forgive.  Take a knee or stand during the anthem?  They are both right.  But we do not know that, and can't unless we walked every step in their shoes.  Learned everything they did, one nanosecond at a time.  Even then, the fidelity is too low.  A lot happens in less than a nanosecond in the human psyche and unless we went through it all with them we don't know where they are coming from.

What has too much effect on people are other people.  Only God is faithful.  Only God is good.  When people rely on anything less than God they are putting their trust into something fallible.  There is a huge market in getting people to "sit on your cloud" but it is not the way to go.  The Good News is that in all the ways that fails us it also points us to a our Maker and that is the beauty of waking up.

To sum up.  I did not mean to become inactive.  I wish I could explain things as clearly as I live by what I can't explain.
