In the modern world we are used to a series of never ending competition. It is something that drives our way of life and has long been one of the benchmarks of Western civilization. Americans, in particular, have always seen the pivotal importance of competition in both the economic and military matters of life. We are taught to get as much as we can, as fast as we can in this society. One thing that we have become blind to is that none of the current things that we enjoy would have been possible without a great amount of coooperation amongst a shockingly vast amount of people. The United States of America, any other nation state, or even mankind itself would not be able to exist if it weren't for the gift of cooperation.

Cooperation was one thing that allowed early homo sapiens to become the dominant life form on planet earth. Already equipped with a far more developed brain, homo sapiens were able to team up and take down much larger prey. They were also able to protect one another by forming tribes and fighting off potential predators. It should be noted that competition is the yin to cooperations yang. They form a symbiotic circle in which a perfect balance leads to limitless potential. Competition amongst homo sapiens allows for dominant genes to take hold in terms of reproduction to make the species, as a whole, stronger. It is the classic "survival of the fittest". I would argue that cooperation is important on a macro scale for the human species and competition is vital at more of the individual level.

People should take the time to be appreciative of benefits of both competition and cooperation on their individual lives. If you are cooperative you will likely make more allies and learn more skills from the experiences of others. You are getting the trial and error experience minus any direct impact on you. When you have learned these new skills you can apply them to be competitive and rise to a higher position in society. After you have done this, you should give back to those who helped you get there and to those who have not learned yet, in an attempt to have the cycle come full circle for the benefit of all involved.

The point in which people should apply their cooperative or competitive skills is something that comes along with experience and emotional intelligence. People need to use their competitive skills to survive when things get tough or there is a threat that hasn't been addressed yet. Cooperation is key for expanding the overall success of society. The more we are willing to collaborate with one another, the more likely we are to be able to find solutions to more and more complex problems. A great example of this would be something like the US or Russian space programs. Going back even 200 years it would have seemed beyond impossible that humans would be able to visit some of the celestial bodies in the night sky, but with the collaboration of tens of thousands of people in each country, they were able to put humans into orbit and on the moon. The cooperation allowed these programs to be developed but the competition between the countries it what drove the desire behind these monolithic projects.

In conclusion, cooperation and competition are both absolutely vital to the human race and to the human individual. They are two sides of the same coin and, when optimized, they bring about some of the most amazing results that this planet has ever seen. It has made human beings the most intelligent beings (that we know of) in the known universe. We are coming very close to being able to be the masters of our own domain and take our species to new heights. If we want to continue to make the impossible, possible then we need to make sure that we don't allow either cooperation or competition to become too prominent. If cooperation becomes too prominent then complacency and stagnation will take hold. If we allow too much competition, we will destroy each other and devolve into warring tribes devoid of any greater task or purpose. Balance is key to having a happy and successful life. It is one of the most important things that humans can come to understand.  
