Happiness is what we make of it. It may be one thing to someone and something totally different to someone else and may even be obtained in many different ways. When we focus on what to do to make us happy, confusion may play apart if happiness is not easily obtained. So, how do we fulfill our happiness without thinking about it or trying to plan out what to do to achieve that?

When we wake up in the morning, it's always the goal to live out the best parts of the day and to be as happy as we can be. We plan out the day, whether that includes work or not, and we try to avoid anything not positive that can inflict on our happiness. What if you planned that date you've been waiting on with the partner of your dreams, just for them to cancel last minute without a reason? That could in turn hurt the happiness aspect of the day. What if everything you planned went wrong or something drastic happens? These things can really hurt our happiness.

However, I've realized that regardless of what I plan or how eager I am to be happy, things happen. Happiness from within has many aspects. If everything is going wrong in your life, how is it even possible to be happy, right? 

Have you ever sat on a bench outside at the park and saw two children playing and enjoying their moments? How did it make you feel? Even in times of darkness or just plain unhappiness, the joy of seeing other people happy, especially children, outweighs any bad. Watching the good that the world has to offer or just capturing the happiness of others can you give you an "accidental" happiness. 

I've learned over time that focusing on self and trying to figure out and accomplish personal goals does give a sense of happiness. But this could also give a sense of anxiety and failure when things don't go right.

I believe that in all actuality, happiness is just simply what we make it. I, as well as many others, get more of a happy feeling or vibe when they witness the happiness of others. This is not true for all people, especially if they are self centered (which is fine, it's a human trait).

If there's ever a time when you can't find that bit of happiness you're looking for, maybe stop looking for it, or just stop trying to find it within. Happiness comes with happy things and happy thoughts that can't be achieved being selfish.

So, let's focus more on finding our happiness when we see happiness from others. Let's let the belief that everything has to be perfect to obtain happiness go. That ounce of unhappiness that we have when things don't go as planned can affect the outcome of everything we are doing or plan to do.

BE HAPPY!!!
