It's a "dog eat dog world" out there - but is it a "man eat man" one? Maybe at some point it was, millions of years ago. But there is no researcher, modern or historic, who has examined the behavior of either humans or any of our living relatives - chimps, orangutans, etc - who has not also noted our unique propensity for cooperation. Levels of cooperation vary not only among species (orangutans are fairly solitary, while bonobos are notoriously cooperative) but among population groups within those species. Jane Goodall, for instance, has been observing chimp populations for decades. Some of these groups (as in, families of individuals occupying the same geographic location and whose culture and daily live involve eachother) are peaceful, harmonious, cooperative - while others are brutal, adversarial, and belligerent. It does not take an anthropologist or psychologist to guess which of these types of populations generally see lower levels of stress and conflict - it is obvious the former group, the one which cooperates, that appear by all measures to live happier lives. Chimps are the only species whose culture is as variable as ours, with groups akin to tribes or clans varying in degrees of cooperation and competition. What about other apes? Let's look at bonobos. These frisky apes are notorious for their conflict and stress reducing mechanism (namely, lots of sex!), and as a result, rank comparitively low on the stress scale. It is undeniable that the level of cooperation in humans and our ape cousins is directly linked to stress levels and thus overall happiness. So, is it even a question of whether competition or cooperation is more desirable? Well, let's look at some of the arguments.

Arguments in favor of competition reflect Western philosophical beliefs that value individualism over collectivism, militarism instead of diplomacy, and use of reason over emotions. This set of values is reflected in most Western countries today who implement a capitalistic economic system wherein (the belief is) competition, encouraged by the "invisible hand" of a "free market", imcrease efficiency of production, lower prices, and, through competition, create a sort of race to the top in terms of quality. This is, of course, a farce. Capitalism, when unregulated, created a demonstrable race to the bottom - getting away with the highest profits means lowering wages, decreasing worker safety, decreasing quality of the goods, and creating monopolies to do away with any competition that would otherwise create accountability! By nature, the myth of "compettion" being at the heart of capitalism is actually disproven by the historical result of unregulated capitalism, every time it's been implemented. So, we regulate it, because Western philosophical belief still states that competition begets efficiency and better economic outcomes that eventually "trickle down" to the little guy (it doesn't, but that's a topic for another essay!). 

How about arguments in favor of cooperation? It is my belief that the entire evolution of homo sapiens *is* that argument, and the arguments in favor of competition are more recent inventions, largely concerned with trying to make sense of our place as sentient beings capable of complex thought in a material world surrounded by other species that fulfill base levels of existence. We are close enough to primitive species to understand that competition over scarce resources (namely food and mating) exist, but also rational enough to understand that we're better off if we domesticate animals and grow food as crops, and take wives.
