Competition in modern society is often given a black-eye in terms of education and the workplace, where cooperation is usually encouraged as a preferred practice. Both have merits and downsides, but I believe that competition has been given a bad rap in the past half-century, and dismissing its benefits can actually hold people back from achieving their best performance abilities and success in their endeavors.

In today's terms competition is usually interpreted as "cut-throat" rivalry and ambition. Yet each weekend we cheer and support sports competitions throughout their seasonal cycles. We haven't lost sight of "friendly" competition on the sports field. But when it comes to the classroom or the office it seems to invoke negative feelings and reactions. And most of those react most negatively have failed to realize how friendly competition can work as a great companion to cooperation in achieving their goals. 

As I child I was very commited to my sports activities, particularly softball. I had a coach who would have us do team and trust building exercises. Then he would have us take a short break, and he would match us up for competitive exercises, usually pairing the lowest performers with the best performers in the initial tasks. Some might think that was cruel or unkind to the weaker performers, causing them to feel like they could never measure up. But that's not what happened. The weaker atheletes, while a bit out of their element at first and feeling a bit disheartened, seemed to get a "boost" of competitiveness after the initial tasks began and their skills improved significantly in a short time. The coach would then switch-up partners and we would see improvement not only in skills but also in confidence of those who were at the lower end of the rankings at the start. As a result, friendships often formed bewteen those who were mis-matched at the beginning, and as partners continued to be switched a strong and solid team began to form. 

This is not unique to youth sports. This is how strong professional teams are built as well. While everyone should be treated equally and fairly in regard to respect and opportunity, it's only when team members are required to compete that leaders can recognize where each member's strength will emerge and can be put to best use for the individual as well as the team. It doesn't have to be, nor should it be, "cut-throat" or hateful rivalry but competition can have immense power in building confidence and abilities that would go unrecognized or under-utilized if left to cooperation alone.  

In conclusion, I can't help but recall that after each softball game the winning team members would each receive a free snowcone (chipped ice covered with flavored suryp) from the concession stand. 
