  It'd be nice if you did something memorable for once. Something you can look back on with fondness. You really only have these ideas of chasing goals others impose on you. That fancy car you never really liked, but your friends seem to think its super cool. That job that isnt really a job, its easy and you hardly have to do any work, but it pays you the big bucks. It isnt the same job you told Mrs. Harkins, your elementary school teacher, your dream was to be--but, it pays you handsomely, and thats worth so much more than being a super hero, or a firefighter right? Maybe thats why you feel so hollow. Your own sense of happiness is dictated by the media, your friends, your parents. You can't think of a time you have truly felt happy for yourself! Infact, maybe the last time you did feel happy, was when you volunteered at the animal shelter, and all of those cute puppies were overjoyed when you walked in the room. If only the people around you felt that way. Sure the puppies needed you to provide for them, and that excitement of play, or promises of food is thrilling...but maybe theres more to it? Imagine you start looking inward, and you notice your endless journey toward the "American Dream" isn't really..your dream afterall. It isn't your fault.. no, you were raised being told that THAT is what life is truly there for. To step on anyone and everyone in your way to get to your goals. Who cares if they whine about it later? You're making the big bucks, you can buy fancy headphones to drown out the whining anyway. While you listen to that catchy song that doesnt make you feel anything, but gets stuck in your head for weeks, imagine this; maybe those people whining could help boost you to heights you never knew possible. Not from extortion or manipulation, but through kindness, care, and happiness.  

   It hits you like a truck. Everytime you've been incredibly sad, the memories you pull from to feel better are the ones where you made people feel happy. When you were selfless, and bold for someone else. When the thought of fame and fortune didn't stop the tears, these memories did. Maybe, just maybe this whole time the idea of "The American Dream" was wrong. That mansions and fast cars and easy rich jobs arent truly "it". When you're at the end of your days, sure money may help you get into a prettier nursing home, but that won't fill the hollowness in your heart, if you never lived to make others remember you. If you lived to make others happy. If you were the person that made everyone in the room light up, maybe you would have more smile lines than frown lines on your wrinkled old face. Nobody could pay you near enough for those memories. For the smiles and laughter of those around you. Afterall, making someone else laugh and smile is kind of like a super power right? Maybe you told old Mrs. Harkins right in the end. Your happiness lies in the happiness of those who matter to you, and those around you. With that in mind, you pop back to reality. A richer being for understanding this new truth. These memories are bountiful, and just waiting on you to make them happen. It'd be nice if you did something memorable for once, so go show them their smile. Bring out the best laugh in the room, it will stick with you much longer than any Benjamin ever could. 
