As humans we are driven by the successes of others and obsessed with celebrities, public figures, and politicians in the media. Whether they deserve our attention or not, most of us follow celebrity gossip in some form. The problem with celebrities, is some of them don't deserve the attention they get. They are undeserving of their claim to fame and sit righteously on top. The same is true for some manufacturers. They uses their power and wealth to churn out advertisements for flashy products that don't live up to their expections.  By branding their products with catchy ads and bright packages, they create an illusion that this is a product worth buying. Images and impressions hold an overwhelming influence on our daily lives. 

Appearances are sometimes mistaken for reality and this causes a gap between the alleged haves and the have nots. Because we preceive someone to be successful based on their appearances, we constantly try to "keep up with the joneses". Just because someone posts a lavish lifestyle online or constantly brags about the things they do, doesn't mean we are seeing the actual reality of their lives. It is easy to edit photos and videos to look like one thing when it is the complete opposite. The same holds true to various products. Just because a product is branded in colorful packaging or has the means to advertise heavily doesn't guarantee the product is useful. More often than not, money is the driving factor and those with more money are often preceived in a better light. Like with entertainers and politicans, we are blinded by their appearance and not reality. 

We are constantly concerned with our image and how we are preceived by others, especially on social media. The so-called Influencers online show themselves living lavish lifesytles but did not put in the work or effort needed to have gained their social status. Because they appear successful and show themselves living the lives so many average people crave, we cling onto it, whether or not it's true. 

As a society, we let the images and impressions of what we see online and in advertisements take precendence. We long to have what others have, even if it's mistaken for reality. And because appearances are mistaken for reality, we allow them to carry too much weight in our personal lives. Just because someone seems successful doesn't necessarily mean they are. Just because someone looks happy, doesn't mean they are. We take what we see as an absolute truth, compare ourselves to it, and try to better ourselves. The growth of social media has created an illusion where we constantly feel the need to compare and keep up with others. When in reality, we are more alike than we think. 

