  Everywhere we look, it seems we are bombarded with images that can persuade us in one direction or another.  In stores, newspapers, on television, many brands will pay obscene amounts of money on advertisement in order to get people to buy their products.  Why would companies pay so much for a commercial or ad?
  When you go shopping there are certain brands that stand out because they are presumed to be "better" than others.  Having two teenage boys myself, I often am amazed at the difference in the price of two almost exact items just because one brand is more popular than the other.  For example, Apple is one of the top brands I think about in discussing this point.  My son is the first one in line anytime a new I-phone is produced.  I have had to make monthly payments for his phone because I, as a single mother could not afford to pay over one thousand dollars for a cell phone.  At the same time, I myself bought a regular android cell phone that cost maybe two hundred dollars, if even that.  And at the end of the day, almost everything his phone can do, mine can do as well.  So, if it wasn't for the Apple logo and the fact that in his opinion anybody who is somebody has an I-phone, would he be as insistent on having an I-phone? Or would he be happy with a good quality android phone such as I have.   In my opinion its all about how Apple advertises and the impression it gives people such as my son.
  I have encountered the same in the grocery store.  Again, advertisers spend a great deal of money on advertising to make people think their brand is the best.  Many times I have been swayed to buy a certain brand of food product just because of the way it looked.  For example, a product in my grocery store such as mac and cheese is one I can think of right off hand.  You see the Kraft brand which has a pleasing box.  It's a well known brand and has a picture of the mac and cheese on the front, which looks very appealing.  Then you have the off brand next to it.  I believe it's called Sure Saving.  it's in a completely yellow box with the brand in black typed on the front and that's about it.  I've bought both and honestly I didnt see any difference as far as taste or quality.  
  Advertising is a very important reason in the success or failure of a product.  If it wasn't companies wouldn't spend millions of dollars on advertising.  They wouldn't try and get a popular celebrity to wear their clothes, or buy their bags.  All of these things are looked at and we all want to have the best of everything, sometimes getting into debt buying it.  When if the brand names were taken off, I'm sure many products perform the same or better than the more expensive ones.
  
