Is being materialistic all that bad? Do we lose sight of what's important to us just because we enjoy spending money on items we may not need? Can spending money on these things make you happier? I'd like to address some of these things in this essay today.

I believe that spending money on items can boost one's happiness. It doesn't make you a selfish person. Nor does it jeopardize your relationships with friends or family. You are not hurting anyone with your purchases of items. If anything, it's good for the economy!

Now, let me address some of your concerns with a few questions and attempt to cement my point. Would you rather cry in a king size bed with silk sheets, or an air mattress with a cheap comforter? Could you do your job easier and have more oppurtunities if you used an old 2000s PC or a new $3,000 PC? If you're having a bad day, would you rather cry in a rusted up car or a brand new Lamborghini? 

Let's take a break from being a question-talker. Materialism doesn't have to be a bad thing. You can pay for anything you like, it's not hurting anyone but your own wallet. If that item seems worth your money, buy it. It's your money and you earned it. The things and quantities you buy don't have to make sense to other people. It's your money and time you're spending, make the most of it.

Some of you might be saying this is a narrow view point, but it comes down to one simple question: Does spending money on these things make you happy or at least lessen the suffering of your life? If yes, buy to your hearts content. If no, why are you spending time worrying about what makes other people happy? Find what brings you joy or lessens your struggles and latch onto it.

In conclusion, I believe material items can boost your happiness and in turn boost the productivity of your life. These things don't need to be frowned upon. It's your life and you should make the most of it. If that new coffee maker brings you a little more happiness with it's 20 features, I say go for it. Thank you for taking the time out of day to read my essay.
