It is true that materialism is an inevitable facet of modern society. Sometimes it seems the overriding motivation for the lifestyles and activities of many. It is also true that in this complex and fast-paced world we all need many material objects in order to survive and thrive. These include shelter, clothing, food, and some form of transportation. However, the overriding question we should ask ourselves when we seek after material objects is what place they have in our determination of what is meaningful in life. Material things are essential, yes, but materialism as a source of meaning can be lethal to what really brings purpose and happiness to our lives - namely morality, honesty, unselfish values, and love.

If you ask people what brings true meaning to their lives, the people who sincerely answer by referring to material objects that they own such as houses, cars, art treasures, and so on are substituting these things for what really gives life true meaning. If people are put into life-threatening situations, they do not say "I wish I could hug my house or car one more time before I die." Most people would focus their last thoughts on loved ones. They would want to say farewell to mothers, fathers, husbands, wives, children, and friends. Soldiers on a battlefield look to save their buddies, not their possessions. Materialism comes in a distant second, or even further back than that, when compared with relationships of love.

In fact, a society that has become too materialistic has indeed lost touch with its priorities, and the soul of that society becomes leaner and sicker as a result. Very few people, if any, really become happier when they acquire more things. They become happier when they build more meaningful relationships.

Some people might object and claim that they truly are happy when they are surrounded by their things, but in fact somewhere along their life paths these people have lost track of the priorities that define human existence. Materialism is not a sickness in itself, but when it is the overriding motivation in a person's life, that which is of true value in the human soul becomes atrophied and unrecognizable. These people often even look more ragged, forelorn, and bitter as they lose the ability to project expressions of kindness, generosity, and compassion.

In conclusion, we see that material objects are nothing in themselves; it is our perspective of them that is important. Materialism can indeed become a disease if it overrides other considerations - the considerations of unselfish love that make us truly human.
