Materialism is the consumption of personal items for entertainment, status, pleasure, and probably ego.  Unfortunately corporations like Amazon band other corporations only glorifies and encourages consumerism and the consumption of personal items for personal gain and probably status and maybe ego.  It seems like the more products or goods someone has the more status a person has.


Capitalism or the relentless promotion of profits or financial gain for corporate America only encourages and promotes for our society.  But Materialism is very shallow and without depth and doesn't really promote social progress and goodwill for all.  Materialism only promotes selfishness and self gratification for people for their own gain and pleasure.



But Materialism has shown defaults in our society during the covid-19 pandemic.  Corporations are currently making billions or dollars more and our communities are suffering due to the economic downturn, high cost of living, gas, and housing.  There is no social benefit for materialism when millions are homeless and don't have enough money or food to eat.  Materialism is only building it's own graves by benefiting only a few at the expenses of millions.  People are getting tired of endless wars, gun deaths, police killings of african-americans, high cost of living, low wages, poverty, homelessness, and endless blamming of minorities and the disenfranchized in our country.

There are no counterarguments that I agree with or that I endorse.  I don't believe in any counter claims when it comes to materialism.


Fortunately there are signs that some people do care for our society and the people.  Our society shouldn't only reward or benefit a few at the expense of others.  People shouldn't only think about themselves when there is a lot of sufferring currently going on in our society or country.  Our current form of materialism or capitalism doesn't really work in it's current form or entity.  We need to change and reform the entire system where people needs are taken care of and maintained and preserved rather than benefiting only a few in it's current stage or form.




