Humans rely on what we perceive to construct our ideas about reality. We take in visual information with our eyes and our brains combine that with context, thoughts, and emotional states to form impressions. We rely heavily on those impressions as we go through life- they shape our thoughts and decisions. As human beings, we can do nothing else; it is how we are hardwired.
The study of psychology teaches us how images and impressions tend to impact people. One consequence of this is that we have gotten very good at using images to manipulate people. The advertising industry is the biggest adopter of psychology, to sell things to people. We are constantly bombarded by ads through media like the Internet, television, and radio. Even walking down the street it is hard not to pass by advertisements on bus stops, signs, and billboards. We are so surrounded that the ads can worm their way into your brain without you realizing it. The other day my boyfriend said to me, "The only way out, is through." I asked him if he just came up with that and he replied that he must have. Today he was watching the NCAA basketball game and saw the same words in an Under Armour commercial- he hadn't even realized the words came to him from an ad. Anyone who has ever gotten an annoying commercial jingle stuck in their head knows that ads can have a way of affecting you without your knowledge or consent. 
An area that is now attracting a lot of attention is social media and the people who make a living on it as influencers. They too are using imagery to sell things, just in a less conventional way. Because they present products they're hawking alongside pictures of their glamorous lifestyles, it is easy for people to trust them. It is as if they were friends reccommending products instead of companies. 
One of the downsides of social media that is just now beginning to be understood is the way it affects the mental health of users. Recently studies have shown that Instagram use is correlated with more depression and anxiety in teens, especially girls. The images and impressions of happy, beautiful, successful people with no mediation can have a negative effect on people. It is the reason I deleted my social media accounts. 
When images have too much negative influence, it can create an imbalance, such as with body image. Both men and women can be prone to body dysmorphia when unrealistic images of thinness, beauty, or musculature proliferate. Their self-perception becomes incredibly distorted, to the point where they need psychological help to bring their perception back in line closer with reality. 
Images and impressions affect us in so many ways every day. Our minds are set up for them to influence us. Bad actors looking to make a profit can use that fact of nature to manipulate us. But it is a feature, not a bug, of humanity.

