The key to happiness has long been sought out by humanity. In fact, many motivational speakers and therapists alike make a career by helping others attempt to find happinees. A central debate in pursuing happiness revolves around the question of whether or not happiness results from maintaing and acheiving one's own personal goals or does one achieve happiness from helping others. Ultimately, the true answer is that it depends on the person, because humanity is complex and there are a wide variety of personalities. However, true happiness in this context, does in fact come from purusing one's own dreams and personal goals and not from the happiness of others. 

An argument could be made that one could only find happiness by helping others acheive their own happiness. However, by helping others acheive their own happiness, is that not also following one's own dreams and personal goals? For example, say the person who wishes to pursue happiness runs a non-profit organization that provides meals for homeless individuals. In this scenario, this person enjoys helping other people and acheives a sense of fullfillment from their non-profit organization. They achieve happiness by helping other people. But helping others is a personal goal for this person. By helping others, they are actually pursuing their own goals, which is to improve humanity by providing meals for homeless individuals. Even if the person said it was the act helping others find their happiness that brought them hapiness, it would be impossible to determine in this scenario if the person's happiness actually came from helping other people or if it came from pusuring their own goals. 

While there is no evidence to support that happiness results from the happiness of others, there are plenty of examples of others finding hapiness by pursuing their own personal goals and dreams. When people are asked the happiest moment of their lives, they often respond with the day they got married, or the day their child was born. In these scenarios, there is no benefit to humanity and it is not the happiness of others that makes these moments fullfilling. Therefore it can be definitively said that the act of achieving one's own goal of marriage or having child is what caused an individual's happiness. 

One must also take into consideration how the human brain itself works. Humans, like most animals, are driven by chemicals in the brain. Even before acheiving a personal goal or a task, even one as simple as eating a nice meal, the brain rewards a person with dopamine in response to an expected reward. For example, if one crosses something off a to-do list or eats a piece of cake, our dopamine system rewards us and motivates us to pursue these activities at a later date. Unless it is a personal goal or a personal achievement, our brain won't necessarily reward us. Therefore helping others achieve happiness would not necessarily result in activating the dopamine reward system. And this is very important for happiness. If we consider individuals with ADHD, such as myself, who lack dopamine, they also lack motivation to do many things, even important things such as eating and showering. The point is that humans are motivated by the chemicals in our brain, and we only receive motivation and percieved happiness from their chemicals by acheiveing personal goals. 

In conclusion, happiness is achieved through pursuing one's own personal goals and dreams. It is simply how our brains are designed to function. 


