Materialism and the act of acquiring material possessions is very common these days. Many people think the modern age should not be criticized for being materialistic. Being materialistic is now a norm. However, I feel there should be a shift away from this unhealthy obession of materialism.
Every day consumers are bombarded with ads about acquiring products for use. Billboards, tv ads, radio ads, magazine ads and social media try to get people to buy, buy buy. In our society it is an acceptable way of life for many. People also tery hard to keep up with others in terms of acquiring objects. Materialism becomes a status symbol.
On the other hand, there are those who oppose those cosumerism and the aquiring of possesions. They feel people have too much in terms of possessions. They oppose the materialistic views of those who are materialistic. They feel it puts emphasis on the wrong things.
Those who support society being materialisitc feel there is nothing wrong in reaping from their hard work. They feel they should be able to enjoy their possessions since they worked for it. They feel they have a right to enjoy their belongings and the act of shopping.
It does seem that people are having issues with being too materialistic. Shows such as Hoarders show how bad things can get when people put too much emphasis on aquiring items. Being materialistic can, in extreme cases, end up causing mental issues with their hoarding. It can also cause harmful physical effects from living in overcrowded places from buying too much.
I feel that while there is nothing wrong with purchasing items to improve your life and bring comfort, fun and excitement, it should be limited. There is too much waste from materialism. Landfills are becoming overfilled with unwanted belongings. It also takes away from what is important in life and that is people. Spending time with family and friends is a simple way to bring happiness in life. While purchasing items can bring happiness for awhile, it is usually fleeting. Society needs to shift away from being materialistic and instead opt for a simplier way of life. I also feel that if we shift from being materialistic, it will help the environment.

