There seems to be a great debate on happiness, more specifically, a debate concerning whether people are more likely to be happy focusing on their own personal goals or focusing on the happiness of others. I must confess I only recently learned of this great debate. 

I have to wonder to myself why there is a debate. Isn't it possible that a person could focus on their own goals while also focusing on the happiness of others? Good mothers do it every day. They have their own very personal goals they pursue as well as many household task that could be considered goals since they are tasks that must be done, they have goals concerning the care of and needs of their children and husband, and some have outside jobs to tend to with its own set of goals.

As they tend to their own personal goals of things concerning themselves that they wish to achieve as they succeed it makes them happy. That in turn makes them more cheerful when tending to the household tasks which make them happy to accomplish but also are to the benefit of the children and husband, Children and husband likes to have clean clothes, dishes, and home as well as good food to eat. And they both are happy to see mom and wife happy. If mom has an outside job that makes her happy to be productive and use her skills in a different atmospher and allows her to bring in an income and that will make her happy and husband too and will add to the happiness of children.

Some may not agree with my old fashioned values and may believe differently. I'm sure if you asked any man, woman, or child if they would prefer to live in a dirty house, have no clean clothes, no clean dishes, have only sandwich meat and bread everyday to eat, etc... so that mom wouldn't have to focus on doing things for the happiness and well being of others and could instead always focus only on her own personal goals such as perhaps going to the gym, going to work, taking long bubble baths when she gets home and then getting a good night's rest and running out the door first thing in the morning, I would be very surprised if any of them would honestly answer in the affirmative. Even mom wouldn't like that, going to work or to the gym in dirty clothes would not add to her happiness. Sending her children off to school in dirty clothes would not add to her happiness. And I'm sure she nor husband would be happy with him going to work in dirty clothes.

Mom also needs a clean home, clean clothes, good food, and so many of her goals intertwine with her needs as well as the needs of others being focused on that they sometimes are not only focused on simultaneously, but also accomplished that way also. And she still has time for her personal goals, and outside job if applicable. She can focus solely on herself for a time, solely on children and husband for a time, and outside work solely for a time, and then there are the simultaneous goals accomplished simultaneously that bring happiness to mom and to the others- her children and husband. It all works to bring her happiness as well as to bring others happiness and it works both ways and intertwines.


