While many may argue that cooperation is the lifeblood of any working company or group, the issue of the idea of success is mostly left untouched. What is most motivational to provide a motivation to succeed if not  the healthy spirit of competetion? Most professional athletes know this, it is why the very idea of competetion is ingrained in most, if not all sports played. Many professional businessman are aware of this as well, as is clearly seen by the breakneck speed and competetive nature of most work environments they exist in. True, having an opposing idea presented by someone you are cooperating with does provide a different perspective in a work or class environment. But as with most group settings, even under the guise of cooperation, most of those who are willing to help, are also competing, whether that be for attention, a better grade, a promotion, or something else.

The pressue put on many people by competetion may seem daunting initially, but is a necessary stressor if one is to succeed. For truly, in life, there are no zero stress environments. Thusly, even if there were, would you be challenged to your full potential in a an environment where nobody is pushed to their limits, nobody is challenged, nobody tries to outperform anybody else? Advocation for complete self ruination at the hands of a supposed 'competetive nature' is one thing, but one must at the very least acknowledge how influental competetion has been in their life, whether  that be a competetion in the literal sense, or simply working harder in order to outperfom those around them. Truthfully, without competetion, life become a dull slog, with no person outperforming another, all is completely equal, and there is no reason to even try.

Cooperation on a small scale is fine, one may argue necessary to live, even. To exist in a society with other humans is to cooperate and make concessions on a daily basis. However this can all be accomplished without removing onself from a state of mind that allows competetion between peers. For in a society built with sucessful individuals in mind, how can one who revels in the complicity of cooperation truly make anything of themself? They cannot, nor will they ever have to, as cooperation fosters a mindset of weak willed 'togetherness' in order for the individual to become successful on any large scale. It is the same reason most organization realize the importance of working as a group, yet also recognize the flaws inherent to that system.

The exchange of ideas inherent to cooperation is truly a boon, however where a gift may lie, so too does a fault. Any idea presented must be agreed upon by the majority in order to have any staying power in a cooperative environment. So then, in a group where multiple ways of solving a problem is presented, and where there is only one or two very obvious correct answers, one must take time, sometimes hours upon hours, discussing in length why the options presented by their peers is not sufficient. Where in an environment that promotes competetion between peers instead, each individual will be searching for the solution to the problem presented, addressing any flaws inherent in their solutions, and then applying other solutions until one that works presents itself. It is not only more effeicient in terms of workflow, it allows multiple people to present their ideas and solutions the way they want to, without having to slow down the entire though process by reasoning through a problem and solution that are incompatible with one another. 

Truthfully, in society's current state, a coexistance of cooperative and competitive attitudes pervades in all aspects of life. It is only by analyzing the situation and seeing which solution can be applied can the correct outcome be reached. Although cooperation is the path of least resistance, as it allows multiple people's points to be heard and incorporated, competetion is the true victor, as it does not treat every idea equally, meaning some individuals will come out on top over others. It may not be the most equitable option, but then again, what in life truly is? Is it not a simple reflection of attitudes seen is modern society? Does the brain not thrive when presented with a challenge? There is no way of objectively knowing for certain, however what is reflected in society certainly seems to point towards competetion being the lifeblood of any sort of meaningful progression.
