Modern society and in fact, individual people should not be criticized for being materialistic. Being materialistic is often attributed a very negative connotation, but the fact of the matter is that societies function mostly due to the production and exchange of goods. 
To begin with let's take a basic definition of materialism as given by the prompt - aquiring possessions and spending money. Acquiring possessions can vary from acquiring objects that are absolutely necessary for survival such as food, clothing, shelter to acquiring luxury objects or objects purely for pleasure such as designer bags and clothes, jewellery etc. To be materialistic then, is to pursue the acquistion of these objects and which almost always involves earning and spending money. 
It is obvious to me that most people criticizing modern society for being materialistic are rarely doing so with respect to the procurement of basic necessities for living. Often, the criticism is directed towards spending money on luxury goods. However, the biggest argument against this criticisim is this subjective definition of what a luxury good is or what "luxury" even is.
Is a 2 bedroom house supposed to be sufficient for 2 people? Is wanting more materialistic? Who decides these things. This subjective definition of what is luxury to one person and not to another, is probably where most of the criticism for materialism stems from. However, what people tend to forget is, basic necessities don't make us happy, they help us survive. And nobody should be denied the chance at happiness. Even though we have progressed to a great extent in understanding mental health and taking care of our mental health, there is still a stigma associated with achieving happiness through materialism. People tend to forget that what they might see as materialism, or luxury, might actually be crucial for someone's mental happiness as that is how they have been brought up or that luxury is what is expected from then in their social circle. This is obviously an argument against criticism of materialism in individual people. However since society is finally made up of a collection of people with their individual wants and needs, I think it is very hard to separate criticism of a materialistic society from criticism of a materialistic individual.
When it comes to society as a whole, materialism often advances industry, research, innovation. The need for more, better, faster - all of these compel people to find ways to produce objects of necessity or luxury - beautiful objects that give us joy, or better food that satisfies us. Thus, criticizing a materialistic society is counterproductive to the progress of a society.
I do understand where the criticism comes from. A materialistic society tends to use much for resources than one producing and using the basic necessities for life. However, the basic necessities for life are and have been achieved since the stone age - a basic shelter, food, clothing, these things have been around for ages. Defining a clear line between what is necessary - is travel by air necessary? - vs "what is luxury?" is extremely hard. The criticism shouldn't be of materialism but of wasting resources and of lack of conservation and recycling efforts. Materialism is what allows us to launch rockets into space, drive cars, fly planes, go on the internet and watch our favourite show on demand. The criticism cannot be of these "luxuries". It has to be directed instead towards the current effort being put into finding ways of making our current materialistic needs sustainable.
Another argument against materialism is this idea that "happiness cannot be bought". This is, as mentioned before, a poor argument often from a privileged person who has not faced hardship or had needs or wants that have never been fulfilled. Achieving happiness is complicated and not a simple choice. Happiness can be as simple as having a good meal, but can also be having a big family for which you need a big house, enough money to have a big car, to send your children to college. Happiness can also be very a nice new set of clothes that you didn't really "need" but they make you feel good, or a fragrant perfume that makes you smell good. It can be, being able to pay for expensive dance, music or culinary lessons, or being able to fly to the Amazon rainforests. What makes one person happy is never the same as another. It's the essence of being human - to have a variety of needs and wants and finding a way to achieve them. To do so sustainably is crucial, but does not allow for criticism for having these wants and needs.
Thus, while the criticism of a materialistic society is understandable, it is misdirected. What should be criticized is unsustainable materialism. Society expects a certain degree of materialism which forces people to be materialistic to be happy and the cycle carries on. This cycle is near impossible to break as it would come at the cost of a lot of people giving up happiness to change society. Such a cost is wrong. The focus should instead be on making this cycle sustainable.
