Why are we so fixated on the notion of "happiness"? The concept can make us overanalyze all aspects of our lives and the choices we make (or don't make). We can become paralyzed by comparing life choices over the perceived level of happiness each choice may bring. Women in particular are often told how and when they should be happy. What woman has not been told by a stranger - usually a man - to smile? Should we dwell on happiness and if so, where do we look for it? 

I believe that we can all be "content" in our lives, but if there really is "happiness", it can only be achieved when we focus on others. Humans are unique in their social interactions and ability to communicate with one another. Those traits exist for a reason: to help society function and thrive. I believe, from an evolutionary standpoint, that humans are programmed to be "happy" when others around them are successful, nurtured, and thrive. That happiness can generate from being a part of their success or by observing the success from afar.

The feelings and emotions that come from this collective happiness sustain us as a society. Without the positive emotional feedback, individuals would not be incentivized to contribute to society and help fellow mankind. 

Think about the opposite premise - that people are only happy when they pursue their own passions and goals. Society would fall apart. There would be few, if any, people interested in helping others. Fewer doctors, EMTs, teachers, social workers, firefighters, and so on. Everyone would be pursing self-centered accomplishments that, in most cases, would not contribute to the overall well-being of society. Again, I argue that we are programmed to achieve happiness by making others happy because if this were not the case, human society would collapse.

Some may point out that this cannot be true because there are people who commit crimes or obtain personal gain at the expense - and even pain - of others. Well, there will always be outlyers as that is how science and culture work. There is never one rule that fits every situation or every person. But, fortunately, people with those traits have not come to dominate society thanks to evolution and the societal consequences many of those outlyers face. 

None of this should be construed to mean that we cannot or should not pursue our own dreams, even the selfish ones. We deserve to take time to do things that bring us pleasure even if that pleasure only benefits ourselves. We need those things and should not feel any guilt. In fact, when we take time to focus on our own selfish needs, we often feel refreshed and ready to help the collective good again. Sometimes we are even more invigorated. So I would argue that some level of finding happiness in selfish acts actually contributes to the overall happiness of others.

But overall, a sole focus on ourselves will not bring happiness and will not contribute to society nor our innate need to help out humankind. We are often asked to image that we are in our final days and think back to what we have accomplished. I do believe that most people will think back to how they made others feel (and how they felt because of that) rather than their own personal achievements. It's human nature! 


