The key to sucess in any business is to hire good management.  A good manager is to be able to bring people together as a team where work is accomplished through cooperation to achive the end goal rather than competition.

Competition, while good to some degree, can cause resentment in the workforce.  There always seems to be that one employee who strives to out perform all the others.  However, that same employee may not be willing to work a project as a team effort and see that every member of the team has a talent to contribute.  That employee can also cause disagreement and dissention in an office enviroment.

By contrast, companies that gear employees more to cooperation are more likely to succeed.  Note:  this is only my opinion, but with many years of management experience I always look to hire those inviduals I believe will cooperate and work as a team.  A successful manager will encourage employees cooperation to fulfill the company's goals.  Employees who cooperate, while at the same time bringing new ideas to the table are a valuable asset to any company.

I was a manager in a very busy government office for 20 years.  I was lucky to have good mentors in upper management that guided me in a dirction that encouraged mission acomplishment.  By that I mean that I was taught some of the finer points on personnel management.  If employers would take the time and effort to ensure they had strong and capable managers that actually knew how to manage employees, they would find the benefits would outweight the time and cost to accomplish this.  

In conclusion, good managers and employees able to see the whole picture while cooperating as a team will increase the likelyhood of success with a company.   I have seen too many times that good employees will resign and move on rather than work for a poor manager.  A enviorment where cooperation is encouraged and managers are well versed make for a workforce that is dedicated to the company and its goals.  Competition is not the answer in a small office setting.   

I am not sure I addressed the question in the way intended, I looked at cooperation vs competion from a management view and what behavior I most desired in an employee.  Through employee cooperation and team efforts I was able to maintain a skilled staff of personnel and was successful in our business endeavors.  Most of the projects we were involved in were time sensitive and actually did involved the safety of American military members while in a wartime enviornment.  It was critical that we got it right the first time.  In this sense I don't think there was much room for having competitive employees and those that were in our organization were more a burden than an assest.  There will always be employees that have competitive personalities and it is the managers responsibility to ensure that even these individual become a contributing part of a team.  Therefore, cooperation is somewhat forced upon them.             


