Happiness is that offen elusive goal that philosophy has wrestled with for generations.  Buddists believe that happiness comes when you are able to calm your mind and remove negative emotions that come from the pursuit of wealth, hidonism, and earthly pocessions.  To be happy is to be at piece with onesself and ones place in this world.  This simple principal involves one lookng inward and persuing the personal goal of calming your mind.  Therefore, in this paper I will agrue that the happiness must come from this very specific personal goal.  

By the ritual practice of mediatation and other forms of "calming your mind", a person is able to focus on the core of themselves and insulate their emotions from the chaos of the world around them.  A person cannot control that actions of others or the actions of the group they can only control how they respond physically and emotionally to these outside factors.  To place your happiness into the hands of others is to remove your ability to choose for yourself and invite chaos into your mind.  While joy can be found in connections with others, there is a danger to yourself and others to place your happiness outside of your own mind.   To look to others for happiness is to pursue their version of happiness.  To follow their path to bliss is sure to end in unhappiness.  Instead, I argue that you do more damage to others when you take away your personal responsibilty and invite them to be the caretaker of your soul.  If you do not love and charish yourself, how can you expect to find happiness with others?  You will be a lead weight they must carry.  

Others would ague it in through great works of charity and the living of the selfless life that will lead to happiness and for some this is their truth.  They reach out with hands of love and selflessly give of themselves and their love.  A noble act.  A selfless act but is it really where happiness is found?  Or is it the act of a person who does not love themself enough?  An act of penance?  Where is the evidence of this happiness?  Is it in the awards and accolardes from their peers?  Such a fleeting thing to place ones hopes of happiness on.  But how else can you gauge this except by asking this loving and giving person if they are happy.  And in asking this question, do we not prove that happiness is an internal struggle?  You cannot say that someone is happy you can only assume or hope.  

All emotions are an internal diaglogue with the outer world.  It is only thorugh the persuit of higher forms of thought and emotion that someone can find there way through the complex world and its teaching to find a peace within themselves.  If war is chaos, then peace is the silence within.
