While it is hard to form a concrete opinion on this topic I have to consider what materialism is. In my opinion materialism is the act of placing value in possesions over relationships. So i do believe that it should be criticised. I think materialism should be criticised because it lessens the value of humans, encourages greed, and creates a false sense of security. 

I think one way materialism effects human relationships is those with more stuff seem to feel superior to those without it or those with out it are  jealous. While this doesnt apply to all people, I have seen it first hand. Its demonstrated on many shows where people compete to win things or money it can turn ugly when someone has an advantage over the other.In the U.S this has been demonstrated in real life as well such as things like black friday where there have been instances of people trampling on each other to get the best deals on expensive things. To me this is a pro and con because it is a good driving force for competition but a negative when forming meaningful connections or keeping humanity alive. 

Greed is everywhere and Living in the United States there are choices and options everywhere. Every product has about a thousand different brands and the quality rarely varies but the price will skyrocket depending on a brand name. To me it feels wrong for there to be this pressure from companies to want consumers to only pay for a name.In return they barely pay the people who make or sell the stuff adequitly. The entire country seems obsessed at times with money or power. 

The false sense of security most often comes from social media. Where the materialistic looking people often seem happy and secure. They appear to have luxurious lives and items but rarely ever want to talk about the hard work that was done to get those things. They have many people admire them just for having name brand clothes, big houses, and nice cars. 

While theres nothing wrong with wanting nice things and everyone should have a driving force to make the best out of their life I still believe that it should be toned down slightly. We should try to focus on more important matters. It should be more normalized and encouraged to focus on having the basics that it would take to make us happy instead of the very best of everything. If we do this we eliminate a variety of issues.



