Materialism is a major facet of modern society. There is no doubt that it plays a key role in the way that many people engage with each other and the world around them. Gift giving has become a hallmark of many major holidays and that in itself is a sign of the penetrance of materialism within society. However, materialism is just a byproduct of our current economic system of capitalism. To criticize materialism is to criticize capitalism. Capitalism is, of course, not without critique. However, criticisms of materialism should be made with that in mind. Our actions do not exist in a vaccuum and reflect our current stressors - capitalism forces a stressor of having to surround one's self with more material objects in case of economic hardships where those things would need to be sold.

One could of course make the argument that materialism could exist outside of any economic system. After all, objects can be pleasurable simply for existing. Magpies collect shiny objects for the way that they look. Crows also collect similar objects for their look or perceived values (and sometimes trade with humans) without an established economic system. Some otters have special rocks that they like to hold onto. We (speaking of humans) will always have objects that are held near and dear to our hearts. This is only compounded by the creative things that humanity has been able to do with some objects. There are gaming systems, all kinds of crafting projects, sports tools, and fine jewelry. There are so many obejcts that bring all kinds of fascination to humans that are completely devoid of their economic value. 

However, excessive materialism and hoarding of unneeded objects subverts the biological desire for entertainment and love of shiny and beautiful objects to a much different desire. Some might even call it a filling of a void left by capitalism. Criticism, furthermore, hardly ever fixes a problem. Should modern society be criticized for its overly materialistic nature? That neglects the reasons why people are so drawn to filling the voids left in unmet needs they do have. It's important, most of all, to address the needs humans do have. This includes, chiefly, addressing Maslow's hierarchy of needs. Humans must feel fulfilled. Objects will never bring the same fulfillment that human connection and community do. 
