Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others?  My opinion is that people are more happy if they focus on their own personal goals.  There are several reasons for this. 

When people accomplish something which can be simple as cleaning the oven to something bigger such as graduating or getting married.  I can reflect on my own personal goal experiences to come up with this conclusion.  Here are some examples: I cleaned the oven this morning and that makes me happy.  Yesterday I fixed the faucet that was dripping water underneath.   I bought a new laptop.  I won a game online.  All those things made me happy because they were goals that I have accomplished which I thought I wouldn't accomplish especially fixing the leak.  I think personal goals are easy to make people happy because reaching those goals takes effort and determination.  When one thinks they won't accomplish that goal and then ends up meeting that goal, it is a great feeling.  There's also pride that comes with it which makes people happy as well.  The feeling lasts for awhile.  It's like you are riding on that happiness.

I have been with other people and they have shared their happiness with me.  It does make me happy but not as happy as my own personal goals.  I think it is because my personal goals are internal happiness which comes within inside me.  Happiness of others is just outer happiness, if that makes sense.  Others have told me good news such as getting married, graduation, having a baby or passing a test.  I feel very happy for them.  It does make me happy but that's temporary.  That does not come from within.  It is short lived compared to our personal goals.  I can be playing with my friends or family and be happy.  Some people cannot always be with others to be happy so they have to rely on themselves to make themselves happy.  It can be addicting to depend on others for happiness.  What happens when others aren't around?  

In conclusion, I feel that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals.  We can't live for other people and depend on their happiness all the time so it is a good thing that our own personal goals makes us happy overall and it is so much more satisfying.  Be happy! 


