Attaining happiness is the utmost goal for most people living in modern western society. The United States, in fact, was the first civilization to state the 'pursuit of happiness' as an explicit social and governmental aim. Yet, the path to happiness has proved elusive to most people. Is happiness found by pursuing one's own specific goals, set by the bounds of their desire? Or is it rather found by doing things for others, building community, and enriching the lives of others? I believe that it is the case that happiness can only be found when there is a complex interaction of these two goals and trajectories.

In the west, it is typical for people to pursue happiness by pursuing only their own aims. This can manifest as pursuing love interests, career goals, and amassing wealth, comfort, and possessions. However, it has become clear that even the most successful people are often extremely unhappy and dissatisfied with their lives. This is because human beings are social animals, and accomplishing something for yourself for its own sake often ends up being an empty goal which may have motivated its own attainment, but which, once attained, fails to deliver the expected satisfaction. For example, Elon Musk, the richest man in the world, is uncomfortable with his appearance, has never had a successful romantic relationship, and is wildly insecure as well as having poor relationships with his many children. It is only working as part of a community to build something together that we find real happiness. Individual approaches to lifestyle cause one's relationships and life satisfaction to suffer. One must find a way to be in productive community with others in order to find happiness.

On the other hand, working entirely in the service of others, when one does not feel as though one is a value member in a community of others, also cannot lead to happiness. For example, many people work for nonprofit organizations in order to feel as though their work helps the world at large. However, these organizations are notorious for low pay, long hours, poor benefits, withholding of overtime pay, and poor workplace relationships. When one serves others or an organization without being a valued member of that community of others, they find themselves to be deeply unhappy. So what is the solution? 

In my opinion, the best way to pursue happiness is to engage lovingly and generously with those around us. One ought to be understanding with the people with whom one builds relationships, and fostering understanding, empathetic communication, and loving support gives one a sustainable and fulfilling sense of accomplishment and satisfaction. Personal goals should also be pursued, in order to establish one's sense of individuality; however, those goals should not come at the expense of the amount of care paid to one's loved ones. Additionally, having strong relationships with others is the most reliable and effective way to build a support network of individuals who can help one accomplish one's personal goals. People are most likely to be truly happy if they mediate their pursuit of their own personal goals through meaningful interaction with and activity within a healthy social community, such as a family, a religiously affiliated group, or a wholesome work environment. If Aristotle is correct, and the final cause of human life is eudaimonia, or blessed happiness, and if he is furthermore correct that humans are fundamentally social animals, then the best way for an individual to attain happiness is to fashion a sustainable, healthy life within a complex, rewarding, and supportive social environment.

