I believe everyone one of us own at one thing in their life that they absolutely love. I don't think that is a bad thing, but I do think that we should admint this to our ourselves. The botttom line is we don't want to be cavepeople, we love our stuff!

Whether it is a cell phone, a smart tv, a dyson vacumn cleaner, a shiny new car or even your kitchen blender, you have stuff and you use it probably everyday. When you wake up in the morning do you do this from an alarm on your smart device? When you go to the bathroom does you use an electric toothbrush or shaver? Is the next thing you do to go over to a closet full of all sorts of clothes and shoes? Does your kitchen alreay have a nice hot cup of joe brewing for your from your smart coffee maker? Is your refridgerator full of all sorts of food that it kept cold for you for breakfast ? Do you have laptop that you take to work, along with your call phones which you drive to work in your shiny sports sedan? I think you get the drift of what point I am making here, you really do love your stuff,  even more than you thought you did and not only that you are dependent upon your stuff. I am willing to be after reading this article you are maybe a bit surprised, but we did not even start talking about the second half of the day yet. There is nothing wrong with you as long as you understand this is the case and except that is is still just stuff and control how you feel about it. 

Some might say that , "sure I love my stuff but I love my family more, I even love my pets more". I could do without this stuff if I was forced to, I don't have to have all tht stuff. I just bought it because I could. It makes life easier but we existed before it, and I am sure we could exist again without it. To them , I say, are you sure? Do you really think you could if you were left in a deserted island like that movie? How crazy would it drive you? Have you ever tried to "unplug" from all that stuff just for a few days ? If not, you really should since this will give you an understanding of how you really feel about the stuff and put you back in charge of those feelings.  I also hope that taking  deeping look at how you can control those feelings for your stuff will help you to understand more about yourself as both an individual and as a member of our society where we all have differening amounts of stuff. Is it fair to say that it will be easier for someone is a less rich country where they have less overall stuff to give up their stuff for a few days, than in our country where everything under the sun is so abundant? If all you had to give up was a electric shaver and a radio, you could easily use a manual razor and read a few books, but for us, we are giving up so very much more. Would we be depressed or devasted more than those, ironically, less fortunate than ourselves in day to day life? Or, could that be a complete falsehood, where neither the ones with little to "unplug" or moutains to give would feel bad at all, and both would feel equally refreshed, release and free of any tether they had to those material things. You might be really stressed about the though of us this, or you might be curious, or maybe just the various outccomes are exciting to you. You won't know until you try. 


The great thing about taking  vacations from you stuff, is that you can get it back. I think that if so many of us did this, we would still have all our stuff, but we would appreciate what we had more and know that we can control how much of our stuff we have and we use. This seems to me to be a much more healthier way of living, and great news as mentioned above, you can always come back from those "unplug" vacations and get our our stuff back which we can use with those loved ones and pets. You will be able to go back to sitting on your plush couch, sipping a cold drink in your reusable thermal protected cup, while playing your gaming console, with you smart tv and wearing your name brand designer sweats and using a big comfy snuggly blanket. Your partner will be doing the same on the same couch with you and your loving pets will be all strewn across blankets, but please keep in the back of your mind, how nice it was when you took that back to nature camping trip where it was just you and your partner sitting on log by a fire you built with your own hands , looking up that sky and seeing nothing but starts, listening to the sounds of the crickets and singing songs and telling ghost stories to each other, and then finally drifting off to sleep listening to , not a white noise machine, but the real sounds of nature. As long as you can do this , then enjoy that life of stuff, but just keep it in it's place in your head and your heart. 

