We as humans push ourselves to do better everyday in our lives. Sometimes We get better from competing with others whereas sometimes we thrive from cooperating with others to achieve something. We might get confused sometimes whether we should compete with someone or cooperate with them in order to push ourselves and achieve ultimate success in various parts of our lives.

The idea of competition or cooperation may come in our minds during various circumstances in our lives. Competition may push us to achieve something among our peers it ultimately is cooperation that will lead us to collective success in lives. Cooperation will not only lead us to greater results but also promotes the idea of togetherness. Since we are a social being it will be in our benefit to utilize cooperation to achieve something not just for ourselves but all the people involved.

I would like to describe a real life situation where this is applicable. When my mom first came in to this country as an immigrant with her sub par knowledge of the english language she had a tough time at her new workplace. She didn't speak a whole lot of english and her colleagues who did felt like strangers to her. She should have focused on cooperation and tried to learn the language by mingling with them instead she chose competition. She felt alienated becuase of the language barrier and saw them as competition. She started working harder and was one of the most hard working employees there. While she did manage to earn a lot of praise from her supervisor and managers her colleagues didnt appreciate her working alone and not in the team behavior. She started being constantly bullied by them. This got to a point where she would end up coming home in tears and i finally made her quit.

The above real life example of my mother shows that while competition helps u achieve better in life ultimately it is cooperation that is needed to sustain and thrive. since we are social beings we need to make sure that we need to cooper 
 
