Materialism is a philosophy of life where the acquisition of material goods is the reason to live one's life.  Materialism has a grey area.  One needs goods to survive, be safe, and indeed, not be unhappy in this world.  However, once enough goods and material possessions are acquired, the acquisition of more at a certain point does not lead to more happiness.  When all you care about is the acquisition of material things, other important aspects of life will be closed off.  On the flip side without materialism, other important aspects of life will also be closed off the you because your material needs are not met.  And having more then you need to just survive opens up other aspects of life you would not be able to experience otherwise.  A balance is important in life between materialism and non-materialism.

My thinking is a certain degree of materialism is necessary and a good thing.  Only when materialism is taken to extremes, and dominates one's life as the only reason to live, does materialism become a problem.  There are a few people who could be happy with no to little materialistic values.  However, I have noticed that even these people depend on materialism, often succeeding by living off of the materialism of others in society.  Examples are priests, nuns, monks, and the like where the ability to be non materialistic depends on support from living a materialistic life style by others.  And what non materialistic aspects of life would one be able to have without materialism?  You will live alone, have no spouse, children, shelter, food and depend on the charity of others.  You would have no experiences beyond bare survival even if you are only materialistic to the degree of obtaining the bare minimum for survival.   Most people will not be happy and have a fulfilling life this way.

One may say no one should be materialistic.  But this ignores the importance materialism plays in life.  Materialism keeps progress going forward.  So modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic.  It should be criticized when materialism becomes the only thing, without regard to other important aspects of life which make it more fulfilling to live. 
