It's hard to say that anyone in life isn't pursuing happiness. Some people pursue this happiness by doing things for themselves; they may paint, or sing, or go to school for something they never plan to use in their career. These people often genuinely believe that self fulfillment is how to achieve happiness. However, others find happiness in other ways. They may help out at a homeless shelter, or give away their old clothes, or even build someone a house - but which approach is more effective?

There is a saying that one may know - you can't help others before you help yourself. even if you haven't heard of it, there is a reason this saying exists. After all, if you're in a fire with someone else and want to help them, but you'll suffocate before you reach them without something to make it easier, you aren't helping anyone. The same can be said for happiness. If you are unhappy, and put all of your energy into helping others rather than yourself, your unhappiness will affect them whether you want it to or not. This is also addressed in a different way in Maslow's heirachy of needs.

In Maslow's heirachy of needs, the top most human need is self fulfillment. What that is differs from person to person, but one could argue that these personal needs of each person are just that - personal needs. This will likely not involve anyone but the singular person and their own goals and desires. The ultimate human need (according to Maslow) is achieving your own goals. We, as people, MUST acheive our own needs first. There is not a single need on the heirachy that involves helping someone else before yourself; even social acceptance is about others accepting you - not you accepting them.

One could argue that helping others is fulfilling and important. After all, how could society function, how could we have evolved to have such solitary needs? While that is true, it's important to recognise that if we were entirely focused on societal needs, we'd either destroy ourselves or become a hivemind. We must recognise ourselves as indivuals, before we recognise ourselves as a whole. If all we do is give, give, give, then who is recieving? Yes, it is extremely important to care and take action for others, but when we forget ourselves, we start losing ourselves. I have personal experience with this. 

I was the person that everyone went to for help, whether I was able to give it or not. I never addressed my own needs, and I therefore never thought I had needs. However, after many years of therapy, I have realized that I cannot just give. I must also recieve. I am an individual, with individual needs. So is everyone else. I still donate what I can, share fundraisers, advocate for minorities, defend those in front of me - but I put myself first. If my friend needs someone to vent to but I have low mental energy, I tell them that I can't and they can either wait or ask someone else. If I have no money to afford my own bills, I won't lend any to my friend. That doesn't mean I won't help at all, however. I may still help them find someone to talk to, or share their fundraiser. I help in the ways I can, while still putting my needs first.

In conclusion, we must recognise ourselves as a person, before we can recognise ourselves as a people. It's important to help others, but only after you help yourself. If you help others when your own needs are unmet, you can destroy yourself, and maybe even take others down with you, completely backfiring your attempt to assist. It's important to rest, and pursue your own happiness. We are all pursuing happiness together, so we all deserve to each pursue our own. Taking this approach, we will all be more likely to reach that final goal - happiness for everyone.
