I believe people achieve more success by cooperation, though a little competion helps up your game. 

I am an avid "couponer" which many people feel is a complete waste of time. I can't tell you how much I disagree with this attitude. I have heard many reasons for this attitude, which I will share here: It is a complete waste of time, you buy things that are not on your shopping list. The savings isn't there, and I can just as easily buy at the dollar store to save money. NOTHING could be further from the truth. I am going to demonstrate why people should reconsider their position. 

The average person does not investigate this subject well enough, and they have old, outdated views of people clipping coupons, and hoarding merchandise they have no need for. Time is a precious commodity these days, and you can take advanatage of both coupon Facebook Pages, Instagram accounts, and Youtube videos, that tell you where to find the deals. If I invest 2 hours of my time, gathering up my information and deals and save $150 off of my grocery bill, that is a $75.00 an hour savings. Who can't use that? 

It is through the cooperation of others that I am able to do this, some of my favorite youtubers are Sisters Saving U Cents, Ohio Valley Couponers, Jodi Dunn, and Coupon Mode. 

The beauty if the new coupon options, and rebate apps, along with store coupons and sales, is the art of the double and trip "dip." You can save yourself a lot of money by taking advantage of all offers combined. I will admit some rebate apps do state you can not use more than one rebate option, but they offer great deals where most of their items are practically free anyway. Often times I walk out with a product for FREE, or better yet, they pay me to take it.  

The arguement that I spend money on items not on my shopping list is incorrect as well. What ever I can get a deal on is on my shopping list. I stock up on items so I am not running to the store for items that I need to buy for full retail. I actually turn down items like toothpaste if the price is not FREE. I am not a hoarder. Many couponers actually resell items in bundle buys in their communities, further cashing in, or at garage sales. I bless others such as elderly relatives, and community collections. 

Many Youtube couponers have competitions to see who can save the most money. That helps them become better at saving money, finding creative ways to help us all. Ultimately, we are all cooperating though, to find better deals and to help each other and our communities. In today's times, with prices rising, this is definitely a success in cooperation. The Naysayers? They are not cooperative, and ultimately, they are losing out. They look down on couponing like it is a horrible thing, which is odd. Coupons have been around for a very long time, and now with the new Rebate Apps such as Ibotta, Fetch, and Shopkick, and sites, such as Swagbucks, Tada, Mypoints, and Inbox Dollars, it is even more of a community "Sport." You can find many Facebook groups that Share in the bounty. Reddit pages are also an option for those that like that forum.  

I have offered real life examples of a hobby that I have turned into a legitimate way to save money and help others. I could not save 75% off of my bill without the cooperation of others. Are they competitive in offering the best deals, so they get more "followers?" I am sure they are, but they also give shout outs to each other, and we have become a real community. The only competition for me is getting the product before everyone else figures out the great deal and cleans the shelf. 
