The secret to happiness? There isn't one. For every person that lives and breathes on this planet their key to happiness is different than the next. I do not believe there is one true path to happiness for all, but if I had to choose, I would choose to focus on work that improves others over choosing to improve my own position in life. 

There's a saying that as long as one person suffers, the whole world suffers. I know in your immediate community this is extremely true. If there are those in your community who are hurting, their ability to contribute to the over all community is diminished which, in turn, means your own happiness/stability is in jeopardy. By ensuring all are cared for, you care for yourself. 

Too many times we focus on the starvation economy design. We believe that if we have something, and another person also gets this thing, that somehow we will lose ours. If one group of people gets rights that we already have, we fear that we will lose our rights. If one person gets government assistance, then we will not get it. And so on, and so on. But this is not true. If we have food and we share the extra with another person, will they not do the same for us in a future time if needed? Are we somehow MORE hungry because we gave our extra food to another? Think on that.

By helping others today, we stay focused on the present. Always worrying about the future and what it may bring is a common stumbling step for many of us. Worrying this way brings additional stress and can even affect your health along the way. Living in the moment helps keep you grounded and happier than always looking forward, or glancing behind. 

How can you enjoy having everything if you look around you with your two good eyes and see the poor and hopeless? How can you feel good about your accomplishments? And, perhaps more importantly to you, how can you continue to achieve new things if there is no one around you to share with? Enjoy things with? Plan for the future with? Or have someone to compete against as you move forward? 

While all of our desires and needs are different, a commonality we all share is being human. Taking what we have learned and teaching another or helping others is intrinsic to our humanity. If we will not care for one another, how are we human? How are we different than the meanest of animals? You will find most people discover their happiness - their meaning to life - through service to others.

(I can't think of a single thing to add to this and you should mention in your instructions that you HAVE to write for the full 30 minutes. I was expecting to be able to submit this when I felt I was done. A notice would be helpful, I think.)

