   The question about whether or not society is too materialistic isn't a new one. We've wondered about it for a while now, but in my honest opinion? Yes. We are all too focused on material gain, this essay will remind people that the societies we thrive in are all solely dependent on buying who is buying which goods and when. 
   Globally, almost every person in a developed country has a life goal that involves securing employment. While it can be argued people pursue any career out of personal interest, it can be seen that without a career or job leaves an individual without things we naturally need to survive. Such as food, shelter, safety, and clean drinking water. These are four things we sometimes take for granted but taking any of them away would leave any sane person panicking. But we live in a system where these previously listed necessities have been commidified. That is to say, nearly anyone you ask in a developed country already knows that these necessities need to be bought with currency. Since these things must be bought, they fall under the umbrella that is materialism. While it does seem empty or vapid to only think in terms of when or when not to make purchases, it is just our reality. Nearly every adult is either spending money or saving money, which is delayed spending. With buying and accumulating things being so imprinted on our every day lives we can only exist in on overly materialistic society.
   While it may seem society can exist besides the perpetual commerce I described, these aren't actually thriving. My mind goes to examples of self sustained farms, who manage to grow their own foods, raise their own livestock, and meet their own needs but this form of life is going extinct. The commerce of the rest of society catches up to them eventually and this is shown by their participation to make ends meet. Such as selling some produce at a nearby farmer's market. I understand also that this is not the only example but my mind wanders to tribes who have had little to no contact with the rest of society. While they are able to thrive, notice how they sustain often, percieved, dwindling numbers. I think this is less by their choice and more by the choices of tribes or societies who used to be nearby, but were either wiped out or moved on to the modern day form of living that is concstant commerce and ramped up materialism. 
    There is little to no argument on the other side of this in my eyes. Materialism is sewn so deep into the fabric of modern living. Necessities for life as a human being are materials to be bought nowadays, while there may have been room for counter argument in the past, anybody being honest with themselves see that thriving away from materialism is beomcing more and more of a fantasy. 
    While I myself can see more than this worth on someone, most of society cannot. To survive and thrive in society a person must agree with some ideals or else they end up living as some sort of outcast. They are either living in wilderness sort of illegally, due to being told they can't stay outdoors by police. These officers are here to push away people.
