Happiness is a universal goal that is difficult to obtain. Many people struggle to identify the source of their happiness while others have difficulty figuring out how to cultivate or reach that source. One challenge people face on their road to happiness is determining if they should focus on their own happiness or invest their time in supporting others. Because personal regret plays a factor in evaluating one's happiness, it is important for people to focus on their own personal goals if they truly want to be happy.

Selflessness is an honorable trait to have; supporting others and contributing to their happiness can be fulfilling. However, it is important to pursue one's own individual goals, leading to individual fulfillment and happiness. For example, an individual may want to move away from the city they were born in to pursue a career in a larger city. Their family may disapprove of that decision, telling them to stay home and take care of the family. If the individual decides to stay home, they will still have an unfulfilled dream and the question of "what if" will loom over them for the rest of their life. Regret can be a heavy burden, so it is important to pursue individual dreams so regret does not become an issue for an individual later on in life. Regret can lead an individual to resent a group and themselves, preventing them from pursing individual goals that would actually lead to the improvement of humanity. 

Some may argue that encouraging people to focus on their own happiness may lead to a selfish society that lacks compassion. However, focusing on one's own happiness does not mean that the well-being of society or the happiness of others is not included in an individual's goals. For example, the well-being of the community that one grew up in may mean a lot to an individual; they want to see that community grow and thrive even after they are gone. A part of that individual's happiness may include performing acts of community service, such as volunteering with a youth group, to help develop that community. An individual can derive happiness from acts that improve the world around them even though it is an individual goal. 

The debate over whether to focus on personal goals or the happiness of others is one that many people confront. It is important to consider a balance between the two extremes, but it is important to focus on one's personal goals first. Unfulfilled dreams can lead to one resenting themselves and the people around them, leading to a counterproductive situation where one does not want to contribute to the good of humanity. Pursing one's personal goals also does not mean the well-being of a group will be ignored; it is possible that the betterment of a group is tied to one's personal goals. Happiness means different things to different people; therefore, it is important for people to pursue goals that are personally relevant to them instead of focusing on a group.


