In today's society, everyone is so concerned about their status in life compared to everyone else. Most people base their status off of financials and things that they have. In my personal opinion, we, as a society, should be criticized for being materialistic. My reasoning for this thought process is that when this life is over, we will not be remembered for our things. We will be remembered for our actions. We, also, won't be able to take any of our things with us when we die. What will be remembered when we are gone from this life is the impact we left on those around us. 

When this life has passed, we won't be remembered for what kind of phone we had, how our home was decorated, what type of car we drove, etc. We will be remembered for how we treated other people. What matters most is our actions, our morals and our values. People always remember how someone made them feel rather than the things that said person had in their possession. When Jesus was on earth, He lived out His days for other people. He wasn't concerned about gathering up things. His main concern was preaching the Gospel to everyone He came across. In fact, he even taught his disciples to leave their homes to follow Him. I can only imagine how hard that must have been for the disciples, because they were just like us. Things have always been a huge distraction and point of interest for human society. However, in telling the disciples to drop everything to follow after Jesus, Jesus was teaching that this life does not matter in terms of things. 

Also, when we die, all of our stuff stays here on earth. We don't get to take anything with us. Everyone is so concerned about accumulating things to fill their house and to impress their peers, but that is only a temporary thing since this is a temporary life. Majority of people do believe that this life ends. However, not many people take this very true reality seriously. It is easy to think that we are here for a while. However, this life will end. We won't be on this earth forever. We are not called to be. We are called to be children of God and He wants us to be in Heaven if we truly trust in Him. Our things will not matter once we get there.  Material things will not be a way of organizing status in Heaven--we will all be equal with the next person. 

With all this being said, there are going to be people that think that modern society should not be criticized. There is an argument that talks about how people are able to use things to help others and to leave a lasting impact on others. While this is true, it is also an excuse for people to gain more things. In majority of cases, more things cause more distraction. More things cause more division. Things have never solved anything. Sometimes things can make life easier, but it doesn't add more value to you as a person. 

In conclusion, society should be criticized for how materialistic we have become. We, as a society, have lost sight of what truly matters. We should be focused on helping others, bettering someone else's life besides our own, and making a lasting impact. That is what we will be remembered for, not what type of things we have gathered in this lifetime. We have to remember that our time on this earth does not mean anything if we don't use our time and resources wisely. My goal in life has always been to make others see what Jesus has done for them. We are called to be living sacrifices to him. In doing this, we lead a more minimalist lifestyle so that everything we do points to Him and what He has done for us. 
