Are you happy? People are constantly chasing happiness. In my opinion, instead of chasing happiness people need to look beyond themselves and focus on the happiness of others. They need to see how they contribute to that happiness. 
First, happiness means something different for everyone. I believe that if you chase happiness for yourself it will only lead to dissappointment. For example, when people set goals and don't meet them the end result most of the time is dissappointment and not happiness. Sometimes the process of meeting those goals can be stressful and hard work. That process and pressure to meet the goals can feel at the moment like the opposite of happiness. When we put our happiness according to our goals, we are telling ourselves that we have to meet the goal in order to be happy, but what happens when we don't meet the goal? Our happiness should not be tied down to accomplishements. In life we don't always get what we want, therefore we should not rely to be happy on the focus of our personal goals.

Second, it's a dumb idea to feel that we would be more likely to be happy if we only focus on ourselves. We are such a small part of our own day to day life. We are surrounded by others constantly. We can have the best intentions but if the people around us are not happy than that changes our own atmosphere. For example, if we love our job but are surrounded by an unhappy boss, colleagues, and customers their moods can influence us to love our job a little less. Unless you live in a bubble and don't interact with people your happiness is also depenedent on other people and how they treat you and vice versa. 

With that being said, contributing to the happiness of others will lead to more happiness within ourselves. When we do a good job at anything we feel proud of ourselves. Most of the time that proud feeling leads to happiness. We technically feel happy when we feel good about ourselves. We also feel good about ourselves when others appreciate us. If we focus more on helping others and doing little things to make others happy we will find that we will feel happy and appreciated too. Knowing that we have the influence to make someone's day or life better is powerful. Taking the time to listen to someone, volunteering, or helping a friend or stranger in need and then hearing thank you will make you more likely to be happy. Going out of our way to help someone or just being kind in general will bring more smiles to our lives and those smiles bring joy. 

So instead of thinking as happiness as something to focus inward and as a reward we get after accomplishing a goal, we should look outward and spread kindness to others and that is what really will make us happier in the long run. 
