Topic for today: Do Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?

Lets start the topic by a simple saying which would go with the topic of discssion. "First impression is the last Impression". Now let us understand both the aspects of the topic in an elaborated way. 

First we shall speak for the topic. Image and impressions have effect on the people in some aspect. We tend to know people when we meet first by their behavior and other aspect as they would be themselves on the first meeting. It would be easy to determine what kind of person they are when we meet first by the way they talk, they present themselves, they react on certain aspects or things. Thee points can't be ignored and can be easily determined how the person is. It is said that a normal human being takes 12 seconds to determine what the person you are. If that is the fact, we tend to make a decision on the 13th minute of a person. Images are also visual aspect which have an effect on the people. For example: we tend to remember stuff through the image of that product or person or logo etc. When we see four rings side by side over lapping in the front of the car, we immediately recognize the same as the brand "AUDI". So it is the image that we have stored in our memory bank about the logo of the particular car that it is an expensive, high end card with all the features and comfort. It is targeted at high end customer. So image do play a crucial role. Image are defined as per dictionary " a representation of the external form of a person or thing in art" or the general impression that a person, organization or product represents to a public is Image.

Since we know for the fact that Image and impressions can be misleading sometime. Impression are mostly mislead so that the person can have a better understanding of a another human being or thing. For example: An arrogant man speaking very politely in this job interview and expressing thoughts which are no where in his everyday living, So in this case, he is trying to impress the other person with his flattery words and ideas which he is nowhere close to. This can be disasterous for the other person because he would have made a view of the person by tralking to him, by understanding him on the first place which he is not exactly. It is often understood that impressions are created to impress the other person so that the other person creates a position in his/her mind of the kind of person he is byu the way he has potrayed himself. Also with respect to the images that we see and process in our memory bank can be misleading at times. When we see an image and process it or when we see an image for the first time, we tend to create an impression of the product or person for future reference. If the impression is created at the first instance, we shall keep that in our memory otherwise we shall delete it but not permanently because if we encounter thes ame in the future, we would be able to recognze and say that how good or bad the product was. 

Conclusion: It is very hard to determine whether images or impressions have effect on the people. Yes, it has effect but it is very hard to determine whether the effect is positive or negative. Some aspects show positiveness and some show negative. We can't ignore the negative aspect of the ame because it will help in the near future for any person regarding the product or person to make sound judgement. It is our duty and obligation to put a place to those images and impressions and how we process.
