Appearances catch our eyes, but one should always keep in mind that looks can be deceiving. As human beings it's only natural for us to be captivated by the things and people that we think look good, but we would do well to try to remember that just because someone or something looks good, it certainly doesn't mean that they are good.
We've all seen ads that show a meal at a restaurant as looking like it would be one of the best things we've ever eaten, but then when we go and actually order the meal that we saw advertised, instead what we get looks like someone took a dump on a plate. Ads and packaging are meant to draw people in and get us to buy things, so they will always only show us the most perfect, flawless version of something, not necessarily what the reality is, and we should always remember that.
There are many people throughout time who may have been found to be attractive and were admired by many, yet at the core of their being they were in fact not a good person at all, and in some cases they were someone who was downright evil. Ted Bundy, a prolific serial killer, was thought to be very attractive, yet he was a psychopath who used his conventionally attractive looks as one of his ways to hide his true self and lure in his victims. Ted Bundy is a prime example of why we should try to never let good looks fool us into thinking that a person is good or that they can be trusted. We must try to look at the core of what someone or something is, not just focus on only the surface.
Some people may try to argue that we are hardwired to be drawn in by things that we think look good, and while that may be true to an extent, we also are capable of exerting free will and once we are aware of  a certain  behavior then we can also try to consciously make steps to change that behavior over time. It is never easy to change a behavior or thought process that has become deeply ingrained within us, but it is by no means impossible if you are willing to try.
While it's not wrong to enjoy or be intrigued by things that look appealing to us, at the end of the day we must never forget to look to the core of what someone or something really is and not be fooled by appearances.
