Finding happiness on focusing on your own goals or making other people happy, in my opinion, depends on your age.  I believe that when you are young, you need to focus and have goals in relationships, education and work. But when you are older, not so much. You definitely have goals, but they are not as important as those you need to hit when you need to grow and prosper in your early life. And your goals when your older depends on everything you accomplish when your young.

After high school, you determine which college or education you want and need to make you happy and earn money for the future. After college, a big part of your life is determing which job or profession you will work at the rest of your working life. These are important for your financial life, but also just as important is the relationships you choose and will be happy. 

When you are at retirement age, you have goals, as what kind of income you will have to live out the rest of your life. Other goals, include where to live with the finances you have and being close to family or not. These goals are very important for the old and elderly groups, but are just a bit of what you plan and accomplish when you're young.

For me, the happiness I find and have found over my 65 years, is not the personal goals I had, but how I could make my family and friends and strangers in need, happy and strong. I believe that everyone should be charitable, but I feel you need to go above and  beyond for the ones you love. I  have lived my life as a giver not a taker. I feel embarrassed to receive gifts, but I feel the happiest when I am giving. 

So I think that your happiness is what you make it. Whether it is when you're young and need to provide financially for your future, deciding what job will make you happy and fullfilled, or finding that relationship that will give you the love and support you need, or when your old and need help and love, it is the same goal in finding happiness in your life.  Everyone knows there are ups and downs in anyone's life, but those are the times that make you stronger and even more aware of how precious every single day is and may even change your goals over your lifetime.  Happiness is of your own making over the years. Most of your decisions in your life depend on your need for money for your lifestyle and happiness. Money doesn't buy happiness, but it sure does help!

I have found that you can't and won't be happy with your life all the time, but you can make a positive decision to face your problems head on and always be honest. I know where my happiness comes from and will continue is with the love, respect and joy that I can give my family and friend.

Thank you for letting me write on this subject. I know it's not argumentative, but that's not who I am.
