I have worked with many groups of people on a number of projects so I have been exposed to two different models for a company or a group to achieve success. Either to challenge themselves via competition to create the best possible solution for a product or new technology or secondly, through total cooperation where ego plays no role whatsoever and everyone does their very best to make the final result at the highest level they can create.  Which one of these techniques do I believe will see a greater degree of success?

My preposition is that "cooperation" will see a greater degree of success and here is why?

When we all work together for our mutual success and work in a cooperative manner as a team, no one loses. The reason for this is there is no internal competition within the team, which means emotional problems and ego clashes will not come up at all. No one will be fighting with each other, everyone will feel valued and free to share their ideas and suggestions without fear of judgment. Such a working environement will be pleasant and enjoyable. All the members will feel a great sense of accomplishment together when the project is finished. In other words, the progress to complete the task at hand will not see any blocks at all due to ego problems or personally clashes and will see the finished product or new tech created easily.

Now some people might say well if you do your project via cooperation, there won't be any drive to make you be the best that  you can be as would happen under a more competitive environment. That only through competition and pitting all members against each other will the absolute best result take place even if it costs some people to lose friendships with each other or other people who won't be happy with their compensation for their work, as it is only the end results which counts. However, I say, the key in all phases of life should always be based upon the greatest degree of harmony that can be achieved amongst a group of people and if this happens, the final result can be just as good not better then  what can be done via competition.

So to conclude, Cooperation amongst people working on the same project or some type of endeavor will always be the most enjoyable and harmonious way to accomplish any goal.  It eliminates ego and personality clashes and makes all the member of the team feel very good about themselves during the creation process as well as have a strong sensing of a great level of accomplishment via cooperative and helpful co-creation.  

{ Note to herokuapp - I am a published writer so to complete your task before 30 minutes for me is a no brainer - didn't know you wanted me to stay on this page while waiting for the final countdown :-)  -- you might consider allowing a person to submit early if they have their 200+ words and 3+ paragraphs ...  }  
