Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition? I believe the answer to this lies solely in a work group environment. Those working by themselves at work do not have that cooperation or competions as those who work in groups therefore it cannot be measured. However, put some friendly competition among workers and you will find out just how much success people can achieve. 
Asking people in a work enviorment to basically compete among each other to complete the tasks at hand or what the boss needs done can show you just how much success they can achieve. Putting a reward to the task will show you how a little "friendly" competition will get all the work done that you need to have done. 
A perfect example of this is at my last job there was a job of counting up all the surveys and entering the number of each one of the answers that needed to be done by a specific time frame. It was getting to the end of the the day and only about 25% of the surveys had been entered. No one wanted to do them because of "how boring the work was." But it was a job that had to be done and by the end of that day. The boss basically held a quick 2 minute meeting that said that the team under each of the office supervisors that completed the most surveys correctly by the end of the day would have a catered lunch the following day. Well, you had never seen a bunch of people work so quickly. Some groups arranged so each row of desks would count up a specific amount; some would do the recount to make sure the number was correct, but some just had no plan and just split up the surveys amount the among the amount of workers in their group and just counted that way. There was no rhyme or reason how they were doing things and it was a big huge mess. 
In the end, the boss along with the office supervisors gathered up all all the surveys to check them. They checked to make sure all the surveys had been counted and that all the correct options had been counted correctly, and then entered and submitted correctly. This was a huge task, especially since it had been put off until basically the last minute.
In the end, the success of finishing this task was based on competition and cooperation. If the team had not cooperated with the boss' instructions the job would not have been complete. If the offer of a little friendly "competition" would not have been offered, then there would not have been a completed task either. However, I have to believe that it was more the offer of some competition and ultimately a reward of catered lunch that got the task completed. I am not sure that it would have been done on time if there had not been a reward at the end. It would have gotten done, but I don't think it would have gotten done on time. I believe that cooperationg produces lasting accomplishments but if there are no competitions, will those accomplishments get done?

