Materialism in the world today is as inevetable as breathing but none the less should be criticized harshly because it is wasteful, ruining the environment, and harming relationships. We have become to greedy as a society as a whole that we must change our ways before it is to late. 

The biggest reason why is should be criticized is because it creates so much waste in our lives that we become overwhelmed with our lives. People are constantly trying to keep up with the people next door and don't realize the products they are buying on a whim like the new suburban, luxury handbag or even the pair of new nikes will eventually sit in their closet and not be used in a few short months. The materialistic things that we consume and buy to make ourselves feel like we are just like the social media influencer we are watching on instagram just create clutter and waste in our homes. Not only is the product wasteful but the money that is spend on it is also wasted if the product isn't something that you truly want. When people buy things purley for the reason of keeping up and image or having the latest new gadget to be seen as cool that money wasn't thoughtfully spent and could have potentially been used for something so much better than it was. The waste that comes from being materialistic is twofold and not only is the end product being wasted when it sits and isn't used but the money spent on it was wasted as well.

The second reason that should be taken into consideration on why materialistic tendencies should be critized is that it is terrible for our environment and our landfills can keep up with the sheer mass number of wasted products. The products that people just had to have to be keep up with their friends will soon go out of style or out of date and they will end up in the trash and in a landfill. The environment is getting close to its capacity on how much stuff we can continue to throw away. The landfills are filling up and pollution is at an all time high not only here on land but also in the oceans. With all the waste that people are buying needlessly the environment is suffering immensly. 

The last reason that materialism should be criticized and possibly the most disturbing reason of all is that our relationships are suffering. People aren't emotionally attached to people anymore they are more worried about aquiring the next new thing to be just like the social influencer that they follow then they are their family and friends. I believe that the world has been overcome by this culture of needing to be like the people they see on the screen that we forget about the people right in front of us. Our relationships are suffering as a result of having to many things or wanting to get to many things that we lose what really matters most, people in our lives. When people can't obtain that newest and greatest they can spiral down a path of depression and obsession that ruins your mental health and how you function in this world. 

Without a doubt materialistic tendiences should be criticized and quite frankly the people engaging in them should be criticized. Not only is it wasteful of our resources and money, it harms the environment that is already reaching its limits, it harms our personal relationships. The world today is more worried about what it possesses in its home than who is actually in their home and that will be downfall of our society if we let it.
