Materialism has a place in a healthy society. Therefore, modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Criticism usually leads to feelings of resentment and even backlash against those doing the criticism. A more helpful approach to dealing with the materialistic nature of our society would be to demonstrate how materialism can lead to an unhappy life or be a part of a balanced happy life when other aspects of living are given equal attention by individuals in society.

Most things can be positive if done in moderation, including focusing on the materialistic part of life. Spending money on items we want can bring immediate satisfaction, but it can also feed our desire to always want more. There are people who increasingly purchase more and more stuff, but still feel empty inside. This is because the stuff (matieral things) will not satisfy the emotional and intellectual needs all human beings have. Our brains need to be stimulated and most important of all, the emotional side of ourselves needs to be fulfilled by caring for others and being cared for, or by helping others, teaching others, loving others, and experiencing how that makes us feel.

Many people are not sure how to deal with problems in life and may resort to buying things as an emotional outlet or temporary comfort/solace. Also, people may associate material possessions with success in life, so that the more things you have, the better status you have in society. People become consumed by their possessions, some of which truly bring them happiness or pleasure, and start to appear as superficial and uncaring to the outside world. This superficial way of living then leads to society being criticized for its focus on materialism, especially when it is obvious that many people in the world don't even have enough basic necessities and are suffering because of it. 

If people are taught how to find joy and fulfillment through other outlets besides buying more stuff, they can appreciate what they do have and feel greater happiness when they do acquire something new. This way materialism will become one part of a well-adjusted society and not be a primary focus of life, nor perceived in such a negative way. Consumer goods are part of living and of course there are things we need, not just want. Happiness can come from a variety of places, so it is possible to shift the focus from material possessions to other things in life that can also be fulfulling. Society can be healthy and altruistic while still leaving a place for materialism.
