Introduction:
Each and every people in the world have different motivation to achieve their goals. Some people have a special kind of plan and skill set to achieve their goals. When it comes  to each indivituals to achieve success its been surrounded by two major objectives which is done by either cooperation or by competition. In this passage we are going to discuss about how people will get their sucess.

Achieve success by cooperation or by competition:
I think the speciality to success is based on competition rather than cooperation why because is that competition makes people to do their work properly and most impotantly dedication they are showering over to the work they are committed. In fact when people done their work with the cooperation of others sometimes leads to be very lethargic situation. Once the hardcore committment takes place in the work we can easily engage ourselves into the work as well as we can finish it as soon as possible.

Possible ways for achieving success:
competitive mind
planning and effective way to execution of a plan
need clear mindset
need knowledge regarding the work
use as much as resource for the completion of task in a good manner
use relevant data

cooperation vs competition pros/cons:
pros: its good when we use cooperation we can get new ideas or sharing our work, etc
cons: but we have to share the success among everyone on the team
pros: competitve mind helps to finish every work before the deadline its effective way and also we had a chance to know about everything
cons: we cant able to suspend or pause a work just because we are the only one person committed on that work  and also if some mistakes happened we have to take entire responsibility for all the consequences that we made.

Conclusion:
There are people who achieved success all by their dedication towards the work they have done in their life time not just by cooperation just because they had compettion also. Based on my perception and also some other peoples suggestion i herewith  conclude that people can achieve more success by only based on how they are competing in the world for marking their place as a successive person. We all need cooperation but its not the only thing which leads us to success we need competition more than cooperation.

