The issue of what will bring true happiness is one that has been debated for generations.  Some people feel that doing what makes themself happy is the way to garner true happiness.  Others believe in being altruisitic and serving others.  The goal of achieving optimal happiness involves soul searching and finding out what happiness means to you.  

Happiness is subjective.  It is defined differently by each person.  One person may find happiness in their family such as having a spouse and children.  Another person may find bliss in their profession.  Yet another person may find happiness by pursuing their artistic goals.  Being that the definition of happiness varies from person to person, it is impossible to define happiness for the general public at large.  

Many will say that happiness comes in service to others.  Giving to charity and  volunteering with organizations that help the less fortunate give people a feeling of fulfillment.  It helps their self esteem by helping others.  Focusing on helping others can be dually beneficial as it helps others and improves your own positive feelings about yourself.  However, you must be careful.  Are you really serving others to help them or for the positive feelings that serving will give to your ego?   

The ideal way to achieve happiness is by doing what truly makes you happy, whatever that may be.  Everyone must define for themselves what makes them happy.  We have to be true to ourselves first, then we can help others.  If we focus completely on someone else's happiness, something that is outside of ourselves, we will burn ourselves out.  When we forget about ourselves, we will eventually become resentful of the others that we are helping.  We must satisfy our own desires and find what fulfills us.  Then, once we have reached self actualization, we can help others on their journey to defining happiness for themselves. 

Focusing on your own goals and personal happiness is the only way to be happy.  We cannot be happy or provide happiness for another person; they must figure out what happiness means for themselves.  Although focusing on others happiness may seem like a good thing to do (people feel good by doing good deeds) ultimately, if you do not please yourself, you will not be happy.  Happiness comes from within.  No one can make someone else happy.  Each person is responsible for their own happiness.  

People are more likely to be happy if they focus on themselves.  They have to define what happiness means to them personally.  If that involves performing good deeds and helping others, so be it.  However, focusing on the happiness of someone else is futile because happiness is an intrinsic value that can only be determined by the individual.  
