 It is often stipulated that the key to life is finding happiness. Once one has happiness, one can, to some extent, be considered successful. However, that begs the question: what is happiness? Cultures have pondered on this notion for millenia. A general consensus is that happiness is a sensation felt by living creatures, which produces good "feelings" throughout. In essence, it is strictly pleasureable in nature, and, after all, what is the human being, if not pleasure seeking? As the human progresses through life, considerations on the true nature of happiness begin to arise. Is it self-created or does it depend on other, external circumstances? Akin to the debate of fate vs. free will, there is no chicken without the egg, and vice versa. That is to say, happiness does, to some extent, depend on both internal and external factors. However, happiness is primarily reliant on the individual and is, thus, individualistic in nature. If one were to focus on the development of self and reaching one's potential, one would, indeed, be more likely to be happier than otherwise; the decision to prioritize one's goals brings internal happiness on the basis of self-development, fulfillment and positive influence. 
 As it has often been said, and reformulated, throughout history, growth is an inherent part of the human experience. Whether it be tangible or intangible, physical or spiritual, every living being can say they have experienced growth in one way or another. Growth is a key to life. Consequently, growth is the catalyst for, and a fundamental part of, self-development. One who is self-developed, or on the journey towards it, is one who is under constant growth. Such growth and development produces feelings of pride, which, in turn lead to happiness. Without self-development, the human being can only cling to the present conditions and, given the human tendency to place more import on the negative, it will often leave the person with negative feelings and resentment.
 Furthermore, there is the idea of fulfillment. Depending on the school of thought to which one subscribes, one can say that each person has a purpose in this life. To some, that purpose is evident from the get-go, while others spend the rest of their life searching for said purpose. Nonetheless, it is a crucial part of the human experience to place goals for oneself, whatever they may be. While these can range vastly, the fulfillment of said goals leads to belief in oneself and happiness. Furthermore, this belief in oneself and happiness, gives life purpose, creating a positive feedback loop. It is this purpose, indeed, that makes life bearable. 
 Lastly, it is evident that collaboration and interdependence is vital in this life. One is not alone in this world and must interact with other living beings to get along. It is easier to communicate and coexist with others once one can be trusted. However, this trust is not easy to come by. This trust can be established with persuasion, whether explicit or implicit. People tend to trust those who are established. That is to say, those who have some form of credentials to back up any requests they are making. In the case of the human being who follows his goals, there is an element of achievement by attaining those goals. This achievement translates as success in the mind of others and leads to a place of influence. A successful human being is one that can influence those around him. In turn, this influence serves to promote happiness, as interpersonal relations are core to the human experience and necessary for survival.
