A common question that people are faced with is, "Does money buy happiness?" For most people, they have been trained to answer this question with a simple no, even if that may not be necessarily true for them in their gut. The crux of why this is such a common question in modern society is that for most people, being materialistic is an innate quality that we are being trained to accept without even knowing it. Thus, posing the question of if modern society should be criticized for being materialistic is a very fair question. As this essay will show, I personally believe that modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic.

Why do I believe this to be the case? For starters, even though this trend may have accelerated during and after the vast technological innovations we have seen in recent history, people as far back as the Middle Ages were materialistic as well. Even if it was for things as simple as a horse or a donkey, people bartered with each other to own as many simple possessions during those days. Humans have always been materialistic creatures, it is in our DNA. Thus, we should not criticize people for being materialistic. 

Other people may argue that we should be criticized for being too materialistic in today's modern society. They would say that the trends I outlined above from years past have grown far worse recently, thus opening the door to allowable criticism. I would push back and say that if people spend five out of every seven days in a week working to earn money that they can then use to spend money on and acquire possessions, why should we fault them for that? Five sevenths of one's life are going towards an action that you are then saying it is not fair for people to exhibit?

In the end, I personally believe that being materialistic is a trait that humans have carried with them for centuries. It is not a new phenomena that has suddenly appeared in recent times and we should not fault or criticize today's generations for exhibiting those attributes.
