Is it better to cooperate or compete? Do we as human beings achieve more success by focusing on the individual or that of the collective?

I believe that it is better to cooperate than compete. Why? The idea of competition does not help our species as a whole. The act of learning and then teaching your child, your students, your co-workers, etc is an act of cooperation. You take the knowledge and understanding that you have gathered about a particular topic and share it with those you educate. The educated then take that knowledge and build upon it. This cooperation is the building block of humanity, and is the reason why we have accomplished as much as we have. I believe it is impossible to engage in pure competition and at the same time achieve significant success as a human. 

Maybe I am thinking about this topic too broadly when considering competition on a global level, so I will consider competition vs cooperation on a smaller scale, at a job or as I mentioned above an atheletic competition. Even at this smaller scale, I believe that the same ideas apply. 

Consider, for example, the Olympic records for 300m races. These races are run by inviduals competing against one another. One may assume then that in this scenario competition is a good thing. All involved are running against one another. There can only be one winner. Only one gold medalist. However, the Olympic record for the 300m is not the same as it was 10 years ago. It is not the same as it was 5 years ago. Why? Because the competitors improve every year. Why? Because they cooperate. Both winners and losers learn and benefit from the techniques discovered by those that came before them. So even though they are competiting individually, the effort is not theirs alone. It is a collective cooperative effort and as a result, the entire sport benefits and achieves greater success. Although, I am not an expert on Olympic track, I would wager to say that even the slowest professional athelete to run the 300m this year was still faster than the Olympic average from 10 years ago. 

In conclusion, I believe that cooperation is better than competition because in a constantly learning and evolving society, pure competition does not exist. 
