      While individual drive and accomplishments are important and something to strive for, you can really see the true beauty of what they accomplish when you take your individual efforts and abilities and find a way to efficiently combine them with some one of a like mind as yourself. A recent example, but somewhat in reverse would be tom brady and Bill Bilicheck. While they are both considered to be the greatest, one as a coach and the other as player, neither of them has reached the consistent and extended success that they regularly found while on the same team.
    Tiger Woods is an example in sports of what seems to be A man who has done it without a team, thats only true on the surface. He will be the first to tell you how important it was in his growth to have his dad taking him along at such a young age. Or getting a fresh pair of eyes frfom his caddie on a day the putter has not been on his side. So, if you just look a little bit past the surface you can see even here the team mentality and team enviroment will almost always bring some type of advantage or benefit with it.
       So when it comes to elections, or deciding on our futures, or our childrens futures let us all please try to remember that even when it may not seem like it, it is best for us to try to work together and find common ground. The fact is if you are completely on the other side of an issue as another group they must be able to see something that your position is keeping you from, and vice versa. If we all are going to live here together let us try to be on one team, even if we have different roles and different strengths. This is why our individuality is important as well just like our personal ambitions, let us learn from the man we have nothing in common with and we will both be better for it. It is a very important part of life really. Not everyone can be a computer nerd, but that person can fix the plumbers internet and cable while the plumber hooks up his bathroom facilities. The main point is that you should absolutely take pride in your individual accomplishments and always try to be the best individual you can, the key is just then to figure out how your individual skill can help the whole team. If you look back at Brady and Belicheck, they were able to accomplish 6 super bowl victories together, and everyone wanted to know "well is it bill, or is it tom" Tom has gotten one but looking at things for him now that seems like a distant memory. and while bill is de4aling with rookies, he is having a time just staying afloat. So it just goes to show you that even though they are both unbelievable, the value of them as a team is far greater than just the sum of the parts. I believe that can be applied many many places in life.

