  We are constantly bombarded with images, moreso than in any other time in history.  Our eyes, as well as our other senses, are continually being deluged with advertisements, enticements.  We are shown visions of a product, a look, a life we could have, if we just bought this or that, went here or there, looked like so-and-so.  The famous images of the digital billboards in Times Square speak directly to what many of us have to sift through every day while minding our business, or attempting to make a choice.  We get the same influx in a microcosm everytime we turn on our cell phones, tablets, computers, or TVs.
  What is it that we are actually seeing, and how much of it are we filtering out, and how much of it are we actively processing as reality versus a profit-motivated, pretty fiction?  Are we becoming immune to the constant presence of these appeals to our senses, our insecurities, our wallets?   
  I believe that we are, to a large extent, becoming more and more jaded to these appeals, and I think that is why the appeals get more and more ostentatious with time.  It could even explain why the people, the stars, the 'influencers' we see or even follow, are more and more over-the-top.  The stars with the biggest breasts and booty, the stars saying the most outrageous and imflammatory things, these are the ones that seem to grab our attention, thus grabbing the headlines and ensuring at least their 15 minutes of fame.
  But with just a step back, a few moments reflection, we can easily clear the fog and see that most of it has little value whatsoever.  Even as far as entertainment value, it is shallow, and almost entirely not worthy of our time, let alone our adoration.
  Of course, there will always be exceptions to rule, an ad that speaks to our humaneness, a media star who speaks humanely, with integrity and forethought.  And in this often difficult and stressful world, there is nothing wrong with mentally decompressing with the silly, the ridiculous, the absurd.  It's human nature to want to engage, feel part of our community, our world. 
  But those images aren't out there, by the thousands, because a corporation or entity or personality is concerned with our stress levels.  Financial motivation is almost always at its core, and in order to maintain a headspace that less cluttered with the external, we all need to do some quick checks and filters while we navigate our days amongst all those who are competing for our attention, and mostly don't deserve it.  






