Materialism often has a negative connotation associated with it as a trait that is not favorable to have. Materialistic people care only for the "stuff" of the world and not the experiences or the feelings we go through as humans. However, some of society's sayings teach exactly that. Take "carpe diem" for example, sieze the day. This phrase is uttered in many a business meeting with a supervisor, brunch with friends, and phone calls with loved ones: take what is yours and don't let life pass you by. I believe that, without materialism, the unfortunate truth is that modern society would decline quite rapidly. Examining the positive attributes of materialism provides a different perspective and perhaps a newfound respect for a criticized trait. 
 Materialism contributes to the vast production of resources, goods, and business, as people work to receive the things they want. This, in turn, creates jobs to manufacture goods and drives businesses and companies forward in the fiscal sector. As long as exchanges of goods are happening, the world continues to go round. It also opens avenues for countries to trade with each other, building good rapport in the process. The concept of materialism keeps the demand for goods and services high, which keeps workers employed and company goals on the rise. 
Materialism contributes to happiness. They say that money can't buy you happiness but it does make happiness a lot easier to achieve. For instance, if you work hard at your job and get promoted because of it, you can more than likely afford something you may have not been able to get without that hard work. This results in feelings of pride and accomplishment and the urge to keep up materialistic goals and dreams. People will be driven to get the next thing that they want for the betterment of their lives and will be motivated to, once again, work diligently for that goal.
Overall, materialism does much good in facilitating production and creation in society to keep our lives moving forward. There are many negative aspects of materialism but it is also important to look at the positive change it affects like production, resources, personal happiness, abd achievement. I don't believe that modern society should be criticized for being materialistic because it is essential to propeling civilization into the future and creating opportunities for all to succeed. 
