First impressions can cement how individuals view you for the rest of your life. Individuals generally rely too greatly on how an image or an impression affects their opinion on a variety of things. Our brains are wired to develop associations and make decisions based on simple associations. This is deterimental because it is a tool used by advertisers to affect things like our spending habits. It is detriemental because it affects how we interact with new information. Finally, it can result in us failing to let go of new ideas even when faced with new evidence. This over-reliance on images and impressions is determinetal because it is an easy tool to be exploited. 

The effects of images and impressions are deterimental because they can be easily exploited. Humans generally rely on logical heuristics that provide mental shortcuts for us to make decisions. Advertisers are able to collect data based on general demographics and even the digital profile we create to take advantage of it. They utilize data to create advertisements for products that will reach the largest target audience and generate interest in the product. This can be particularly determinetal if the product is harmful such as alcohol, tobacco, or gambling. By understanding how to market a product, and cementing an impression, advertisers not only increase the potential revenue for the product but maybe mislead consumers into purchasing a product that is determinetal to the health and wellbeing of the consumers. If we think about the tobacco industry of the mid 20th century, they used advertisers to the determint of many consumers. They marketed cigaretts as a cool product that was good for the health of the consumer. The end result being that many individuals who smoked tobacco products later faced health issues later in life. The government counteracted these negatives effects by engaging in a costly advertising campaign to address misinformation that had normalized harmful behavior. They also had to create policies such as raising the age of the purchase of tobacco and banning the practice of smoking in public places to try and stifle what had been normalized behavior. We see similar trends with alcohol and gambling where the government has had to act in a manner to restrict advertising to counteract earlier impressions created by advertisers. 

The effects of images and impressions are determintal because it makes it more difficult for individuals to interact with new information. If you look at political discourse in this country, much of this is affected by how politically interested groups are able to frame issues. They are able to create a narrative about an issue and push their message effectively to the individuals most likely to accept this. This is deterimental because these narratives may be overly politicized compared to the truth or may actually be incorrect. Once this information is cemented though, individuals may already be too set in their ways to meaningfully interact with the truth. That this new information may not be accepted because it comes from a source they don't believe in or may actively diagree with. This is detrimental to society because now we have a population that is politically motivated to likely vote against their own interest. We instead are promoting policies that harm the very people affected by it.  It is deterimental because when they are unhappy with the response to the issue, they are unable to rectify the policy outcome with their understanding in this world. This may lead to greater apathy towards involvement in political movements or push them to extremist views. 

Finally, the effecfts of first impressions or images can be detrimental because it may result in people failing to change. Often things such as bigotry, racism, sexism, etc is grounded in the lack of experience or information. When we promote a factually inaccurate first impression, people may choose not to engage with information that conflicts with their world view. They may not choose to interact because they've cemented that first impression. They then elect individuals that promote these values and promote dissent or factionalism. The result being that we are perpetuating the continuance of values and beliefs that are harmful to a diverse society. 

Individuals shouldn't rely too much on images or impressions to make decisions. These can prove harmful to individuals for a myriad of factors. It can prove harmful to their health and financial wellbeing. It can prove harmful to their political interest as it may lead to the promotion of ideas that are actually harmful to them. Finally, it may harm society by making the population less likely to accept ideas or promotes harmful ideas. Impressions play a powerful role in our way of life. 




