For most people, being happy is a main goal, whether they realize it or not. Some people fully commit their energy to trying to achieve happiness, while others live life and just let happiness come to them. People get happiness in many different ways; helping others, self care practices, sports, relaxation, time with family, and many more things. For some, happiness is an elusive goal that they can't seem to grab onto no matter what they try to do. I personally believe that happiness does not lie in one specific approach, but many different ones, and may not be the same from person to person.

I think that a good start to becoming as happy as you desire is to make a list of a few personal goals that would make you happy. I'm going to focus on personal goals because I think I have to choose one or the other, even though I believe it is a mix - for me at least. When you devote the time and energy it takes to achieve personal goals, you are typically a happier person, which can "rub off" on the people around you. One common personal goal shared by many is something along the lines of health - lose weight, exercise more, eat healthier, etc. When you focus on that type of personal goal, you will be happier because your body and mind will be healthier.

Some people may argue that you should focus on the happiness of others and this will lead to your own happiness. While I agree that the happiness of others is important, and a worthwhile focus, I belive that you should put at least one of your personal goals first. I liken this to how they tell parents to make sure their oxygen mask is on first in an airplane emergency situation before helping their children put their masks on. You have to be able to take care of yourself first before you are really able to help others in a way that is actually helpful.

As the old saying goes, "You can't love someone else if you don't love yourself." I believe this also applies to happiness. If you are soley focused on the happiness of others, you cannot be truly happy. Set a good example for all of the people you interact with, and focus on your happiness. A lot of times, the two concepts will mesh, resulting in overall happiness for everyone.
