The False Reality of Marketing and the Media

It seems that everywhere you look, someone is advertising something. No matter where you go, it's in your face, especially in the United States. We are conditioned to be consumers and to always have that "next best thing". Is any of it real or meaningful though? No, it's all lies, all false, all an illusion.

Companies pay large amounts of money--millions of dollars-- for successful marketing campaigns. These campaigns are meant to entice us, arouse us, seduce us, and compel us to buy their products or brand. Marketing campaigns are nothing more than smokescreens that make us feel inadequte and "less than" if we are not keeping up with the trends. Ads tell us we are not pretty enough, not thin enough, not rich enough. They tell us we need to drive a better car, have a bigger house, dress in a certain way. Ad say we're fat, we're ugly, and no one will love us unless we buy what is on the screen or page. The sad thing is, a lot of people fall for that and they don't even realize that they're doing it.

What really matters in life? Is it having that designer bag or the thousand dollar shoes with the red bottoms? Is it imitating a bubble-brained celebrity who is more plastic than flesh? I say NO.

Marketing campaigns and ads create an illusion. Ads tell us, "Buy this and you'll look like me" or "Buy this and you'll have a sexy woman/man adore you". These are all lies that feed into the human ego. It's false. The saddest thing to me are the people who BELIEVE in these lies and feel compelled to chase the next big thing to make them happy. It's gotten to point now where people aren't even real, and by that I mean the giant uptick in plastic surgery procedures. Again, this creates a false image to conform to, a fake beauty standard that women should chase. All of these illusions are harmful, not only to our self-esteem, but to humans as a society.

What happened to appreciating natural beauty? What happened to aging gracefully? What happened to living simply and in harmony with nature? Now, it seems we are a race of consumers, mindlessly devouring each new thing, embracing each new illusion and spreading each new lie as it is released and distributed. 

We need to turn off the media, get rid of tell-lie-vision, and stop this madness. Take a step back and appreciate what you have right now. Reconnect with nature. Stop chasing money and start appreciating your family and friends. Cultivate those relationships.

Love is only thing that is real. It doesn't matter what clothes you put on your body, or what kind of automobile you use to get from A to B. It doesn't matter if there's a name label on your handbag. What's important is - HOW MUCH LOVE DO YOU HAVE? Spouse, children, friends, Higher Power/God, animals, nature. These are the things that are real. 

I stopped watching Tell-lie-vision over a decade ago and I block nearly all mainstream media online. Once you pull yourself out of the rat race, out of the matrix, out of the false narrative that's been created to destroy us, your eyes open and you can see what truly matters. Money, cars, designer clothes, breast implants and BBL's are NOT IT.

Feeling the sun on your skin, hugging your cat, holding hands with your husband, eating fresh vegetables with no chemicals, drinking clean water -- these are REAL. Planting a garden and growing your own food brings you back into nature and the seasons of the earth. So many people in the world are so far removed from the earth that they don't even know where their food comes from.  

Don't waste your life trying to conform to an impossible and ridiculous standard of wealth and beauty. That world is false. Remove yourself from all of that and get back to basics. You'll never regret time spent with loved ones and it won't matter what you're wearing when you're with them. It's not easy to remake your life and shift your paradigm, but in the end, I can promise you that it's worth it. My reality is beautiful and real, and I welcome you to join me with open arms and a full heart.
