In our society, we have always been taught that we need to buy things to be happy. Ever since we were children, everywhere we look there are advertisements to buy materialistic things. At school growing up, kids were often made fun of for not having the "latest thing" or nice clothes. Even in adulthood, people are always concerned about having the nicest car, or biggest house.

I believe that this should be a thing of the past. I believe that modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic. Money and possessions should not be our focus in todays world. Society should be more focused on experiences and connections to other people. Not only will this make everyone happier, it will also protect the environment.

Being a materialistic society is very damaging to the planet. Not only does it fill our landfills, it also produces a lot of greenhouse gases which contributes to climate change. Making things produces a lot pollution, then it needs to be transported and then sold in a store. This all wastes electricity and fuel. Materialism also makes people feel self conscious about themselves when they don't have things that others do have. Not everyone can afford the latest and greatest things, so those people feel left out and causes stress and depression. 

I will admit that it would affect the economy greatly if we switched overnight into a society that wasn't materialistic. I am not saying that people should not have anything at all. I just think people should be criticized for having excess and unneccessary things. Society may not be as exciting without so many materialistic things, but I believe that people would ultimately be more happy and get along with one another. Not to mention the world would be a healthier place.

In conclusion, being a materialistic society is engrained in our lives from when we are toddlers until well into adulthood. It isn't necessarily peoples' fault that they are materialistic to some extent but many people should be criticized for taking it way too far. We would all be a lot happier and healthier if we didn't focus on materialistic things. It can cause many issues when people are so materialistic when others are economically challenged, especially kids. It would also benefit the planet if we stopped being so materialistic. We all need to stop putting so much value on "things" and start putting value on experiences and interactions. 
