Cooperation is the act of working together to achieve some goal. It requires people to work on one accord while maximizing everyone's best efforts to do something. Cooperation often encourages people to use their best assets to assist in reaching the goal. That's why I will argue people are more successful when they use cooperation vs competition. 

Cooperation usually help people find their strengths and utilize them in the project. It allows people to do what they do best to contribute to the final result. People work best in their comfort zone. For instance, I saw this report today that talked about a young lady who was autistic. Many autistic people are high functioning. However, many of them do not hold jobs due to their health condition i.e. being autistic. Well, this young lady enrolled in a program that helped autistic people use their best skills to help with government projects. This young lady had the ability to hone in on to specific details. She could easily point out patterns and predict directions. The government worked with her and developed a position within the defense department. She was looking at the direction of the war going on in Ukraine and predicting things for them. The government encouraged her to use her best skills to help them achieve their goal. 

On the other hand, competition just encourages one person to be the best. The problem with this is, there is only one person who can be on top. It does not encourage the others to do their best. It often leads to some people not trying to do their best because they become discouraged. The discouraged person does not believe they are good enough to beat the person on top. Competition usually requires people to be good in several areas. Cooperation allows people to shine in one specific area. It allows everyone to feel like a winner when the goal is reached. Therefore, I strongly believe cooperation allows people to achieve much more success than competition. We are better together. 




