What is being materialistic and why are we so natrually adverse towards it? To have things is not, in and of itself, a bad desire. We all need things. We all want things. Things that help us, things that satisfy us, things that help others, things that satisfy others. When good things turn into bad things, that's when we know things are bad. Now that just sounds silly. Here's what I mean. 

When our physical needs arise, we have to meet them. It's only human nature. To meet our various needs, we attain educations, occupations and whatever else is needed for that occupation, and we put in the needed efforts in order to secure for ourselves needed amount of financial resources. But, mind you, all of that was in pursuit of something -- that something being the satisfaction of our physical needs. We need a roof over our heads, food for our bodies, leisure for our minds, etc. 

But that pursuit becomes excessive if we continually desire more than we need. Because of that desire to attain more than we need, we get these people behaving the way they do. They don't care about other people but themselves and their needs above all else. As more and more people become greedy in pursuit of material things, our society decays from within just that much. Little by little. Day by day. Continually rotting from inside out.  There is no cure for it once it takes hold. As more people become greedy and materialistic, more people are drawn to be greedy and materialistic. 

It's a vicious cycle that just consumes the society, and the very values and traditions we hold dear start to lose meaning. We, then, lose the sight of things we really value deep in ourselves -- the love and care we want to express for those who are close to us. This is the connection we have had for ourselves long before the modern materialism and overconsumption even began. In order to criticize the society for its ill of materialism, we must at least have an idea for the cure of it. I'm not sure if the modern man in general has that kind of faculties intact. 

So should we criticize the materialism? Perhaps what we should criticize is the system that allowed the emergence of greed and materialism. The society is in the shape it's in because of the people who make up the society. People behave the way they do because they have learned to be greedy. Until we can fix the conndition of human greed, there is no point in criticizing the society's materialistic tendencies. Even if we could fix it for now, it will rear its ugly head again once we become greedy again, and we always do. 
