For many people, it may be percieved that images, packaging, and other types of  impressions, are too excessive.  I personally disagree.  I do not believe that their effect should have a limit due to how reaching a manipulative level is inevitable in many aspects of our lives.  The key instead, is education.

Advertisements play on our natural responses to stimuli.  The advertisers understand what makes us do certain actions and play on those factors.  This is common in other areas as well.  You will find that in everyday speach, for example, in politics, this is done as well.  Politicians speak to people on what makes them want to vote for them, so that they can advance their interests.

A second example is when you're at the bar.  If you are at the bar, you may be approached by someone.  That person is done up in a certain way, says things that they think might be appealing, etc.  They are trying to get your approval.  Given these examples, if you think about it, it is fairly common to be persuaded based on our insticts all around us.  We cannot simply create limits through laws, or otherwise on our own natural responses to the numerous examples.

The solution to this is quite simple.  We need to educate ourselves more.  This involves two things.  We need more information on how we work.  We need to understand how we can be manipulated through more studies and research.  The second step is to teach people these findings.  This should be a cornerstone of our education system.  Since we cannot stop all forms of being heavily persuaded, or manipulation if you will, our best course of action is to have reasonable skepticism based on eduction. 

Only through education can we defend against our own nature.  Our own nature is inevitable. From a guy picking you up at the bar, to politics, to advertisements, our nature will always be taken advantage of.  Saying that this is too excessive, is to say that human nature is too excessive.  Understanding and defending against our own primal insticts is instead the key.  
