Today's reality is very scary.  Why do say about today's reality, how is it that product can look the way it does in a picture but when we recieve it it's not up to standard. Or when a politicain says they are going do things for us in thier tv advertisement, and do the complete opposite? Well i will tell you all about it in this writing prompt. 
Today's reality is very scary.  What do i mean by that? Well stores will have a product that they are trying to sell, but how do they get that product to be very likable for poeple to buy it.  They have advertisements, but are all those advertisements actually help that product that company is trying to sell.  I've had many times where i buy something either in store, or online, and when i get that product and open it, it's  really crappy quality. But why did I purchase that in the first place? Well of course the advertisement intised me in a way that i though i needed that product so much. It's like polictians running for office as well.  They advertise what they are going to do when they get elected to office, and do the complete oppisite of what they where going to do.  Advertisement is very false most of the time. Some times its exactly advertised on tv or social media, but other times it's not. I believe that images and impressions do have to much have a effect on everyone in this society. They think they are recieving something and get something that wasn't even close to what they saw. 
Apperances for advertisements are very crucial espcially for company's that are just trying to make a very nice income, so of course using these advertisments really help them.  But sometimes it'll bite them, when product doesn't seem cool like the advertisement they saw.  I think people like seeing advertisements because it intices them to want that product or that politicain to run for thier state or even thier country.  But sometimes what they get is not what they expected at all. I hope this helped you learn about the harsh reality of the impact that advertisements have on people and thier daily life's.
