In a society driven by the desire to consume, most of us have amassed quite the collection of material possessions. Some would even consider our society as a whole to be especially materialistic. But what drives this desire? And should modern society be critizized for our materialistic nature?
I tend to aovid commenting on others' behaviors. As a behavioral analyst, I do plenty of this on my company's dime. However, this topic warrants a bit of critique. In short, yes, we should be ciriticized for our materialism in its current form. It is time for our society to take a step back from our neverending desire to accumulate goods. Empty your amazon shopping carts. Take a look around the room that you are in. How much of what you have do you really need?
Our society's materialism has far reaching consequences. For one, the environmental impact of our irresponsible consumption. Excessive use of paper and plastics when shopping or purchasing goods online, and well as improper disposal of no longer wanted items is not only a waste of valuable resources but is polluting our water systems with microplastics. Additionally, there is a growing body of scientific evidence to support that we are not actually happier with a house full of crap we don't need. You may love the dopamine rush you get when hitting "checkout" but how long does the purchase actually bring you joy?
Now, don't get me wrong. Our society needs people to spend. If those who can spend their money, those closer to the bottom may have their own chance to acquire more wealth. And in my opinion, buying that totally unncessary but adorable halloween wreath from Target is not the worst thing you could do. 
In summary, I do think our society should be criticized for it's materialism. Not for the desire to consume on it's own, but for our lack of responsible consumption. If we can adjust our behaviors in order to consume in a way that doesn't prevent lower SES people from obtaining what the need to survive or harm the environment, spend as you see fit. 

