Our society is very materialistic.  We make and consume material every day.  Most of earn a living by making material items.  There advertisments that convience us we need so many unnecessary item or materials.  

Our society should be criticized on being too materistic.  We judge people to much by the items people own such as cars and houses they own and the cloths they were.  People are judge if you are eating at the best resterants and going to the trendy coffee shops.   We should not being using material items or possestion to judge people.  A person should be judged by there character and not there posessions, what cloths they were or the house they live in. 

Our society need to be more thankful for a roof over their head and food on the table,  It should not matter the size the roof, or the expesive of the food.  We need to appriciate the basics and the smaller things in life.  Not everyone has a roof over their head or food on there table.  Some people would be extrememly thank for a place to home.  We are all were not raised or given the same start in life and we all go through different challeges. I don't think think it is fair to be so materialistic.  

Some poople will spend live ther life trying to impress people with all of there possesion and never be happy.  They spend all there money and time just trying to impress other people when it never really make themself happy.  This I think is really sad.  

Some poople would argue my point and say we shouldnt be criticized for being too materiallisic.  They may say this is a way to show someone's accomplishments and acheivements throught out here life.  They have worked  hard to buy all of these items and material posessions.   However I think you can show your accomplishment and acheivements in many ways beside a large house or having multple cars that you never drive.   

You can show your acheivement in the ways you care for other people, family & friends.  You may be the one person to make a positive difference in a persons life and that is much more valuable than any material posession.  



