Is happiness obtained through the achievement of your personal goals or through the happiness of others? What do you think? 

I believe happiness is simply a decision you take every day, are you going to be happy or unhappy today? That's about it in my opinion.  We all have challenges in our lives that make it hard to believe that all can be perfect, your life doesn't need to be perfect and while you cannot control everything in certain situations, you can control your emotions and how you react. You can decide if you accept to see the positive side of things and/or move on if there is none or if you focus on the negatives and decide to live an unhappy life. 

Some say that if you focus on achieving your goals you will be more happy, personal goals vary from one person to another and yes, you should be your first priority, but ultimately achieving a certain goal can give you happy moments, but it might not fill the emptyness you feel at the end of the day if that is your case. How many people out there are sucessful on their careers or have the family of their dreams  or all the money of the world and yet are unhappy?

Some say if you focus on others happiness you will be happy. I think making others happy certainly can make you feel fulfilled and it can give you a sense of purpose, but you can't control how others react to what you give them or do for them, you might do something for someone and they might be unhappy about it because it's not what they wanted or they are not thankful. For example, teenagers that have good parents and they give them all the support and study opportunities that others can only dream of and still that teenager complains about how annoying is to have parents following up or asking about her homework or where she is at or is even unhappy about having to go to highschool instead of being homeschooled. 

Don't become a pleaser and don't do things for others expecting something in exchange or expecting them to be happy or thankful about it. Set goals that you really want to achieve, but focus also on getting to know yourself, knowing your emotions and creating mental strength. Life is not easy, but you are a fighter, you decided to come to this world and in the same manner you can decide whether you are happy or not. It's no one else's responsibility, but yourselves to take the decision every day and of course allow yourself to be sad and/or unhappy when bad things happen, but move on with your life, don't hold grudges and share with others activities that give you moments of happiness and fulfill you, in my case I achieve that through rescuing cats, no matter how bad of a day I have, when I am able to help a cat in need or share with my own cat all problems go away. I also have happy moments when sharing with my family, but we also fight sometimes so it's all about "moments", it will be unrealistic to think that happiness can be a state you are in the 100% of the time. 



