
When there is a new invention, or innovation, or creation, or achievment in the world, people often wonder how it came about, and how do we capture that lightening in a bottle to make it happen again. People will argue about what makes the best happen in people, often in a capitalist society, as well--that we have too much weakness when people cooperate too much. But is that true? What about companies that were created by partnerships or groups of people?  Maybe cooperation gets better results than competition after all--or maybe cooperation gets the best of both, while competition leaves only one possibility.

When people compete, you have a world of winners and a world of losers, and a world where people focus on competition. When people cooperate, though, people focus more on the results, and the cooperation itself is less interesting. If people are focused more on the results, then what matters is what drives people to compete in the first place, not just who will succeed the best and fastest--but who will create something that will be the most longlasting and the most beneficial to the world overall. Competition is more about the excitement of the moment and the announcement of the results, but cooperation is about constantly innovating something that just gets better and better. 

And cooperation doesn't have to exist without competition, while competition can't exist with cooperation intact. When people cooperation, they can work together while still pushing each other to work to their best and work harder and harder, but when people compete they push each other too far and even degrade their own skills by sacrificing quality for the sake of speed and glamour. 

I worked in an office a long time an experienced all this myself. When people competed, they could sometimes achieve great things, but it was in bursts of excellence in between being strained and worn down. When people cooperated, sometimes they'd be confined by having to work together, but you could still branch out when that happened--but when people worked together, they could fill in the gaps of each other's weaknesses and that didn't have to be a bad, angry thing, it could just be a natural thing that happens with everyone, and there's someone else there to help pick up the slack. And then you are there to show someone else all that you can do. So ultimately, competition might get the brightest spotlight, but cooperation has the light on the longest amount of time. 
