Do more people achieve success by cooperation or by competition is an interesting philosophical question, but I believe the answer lies in the wording of the question itself. More people achieve or are affected by success under cooperation than success. This is largely due to very simple math rather than any deep dive into psychology. Competition is divisive, where cooperation is additive, so by their own nature more people will be successful under cooperation. 
Competition, though it may be a driving factor in a majority of people, will not give a greater number people of success. In a very simplistic scenario, two people are competiting over one goal. Person A wants to use one method, person B wants to use another. The pitch the methods, Person A wins and Person B loses. Success was granted to one person. In the same scenario, using cooperation, person A and B collaborate, come up with one method, and both people reach success. Two is greater than one. Another way of looking at this is taking a board into consideration. A group of people generally are in charge of the decision making for organizations, such as schools, companies, and non-profits. If all of these people only ever compete, not only are the successes on the board limited to a couple of people at a time, but the people in the organization they represent suffer. However, by cooperating as a board to come up with ideas or plans of actions that benefit their entire organization, not only are the number of successes equal to those seats on the board, but all of the people that the board represent. 
While a great number of people probably do reach success through competition, the question wasn't are more people driven by competition or how many achieve success by competition, but does cooperation or competition result in more people having success. Because cooperation increases the number of people who will be successful in a scenario, while competition will always have a winner and a loser, the answer will be cooperation. 
