     I am writing this essay to discuss the pursuit of happiness, and whether it is more readily achieved in the interest of themselves or in others.  

     For me, personally, I believe that the easiest way to attain happiness is  by looking outside yourself, and focusing on the well-being and happiness of others.  It is only through this measure, that you are truly able to be free of restraint and worry and self-doubt and put yourself out there in the interest of another.  Through this pursuit, you gain wisdom, compassion, introspect and caring.  It is these types of actions that truly help one to ascend to a higher plane of being.  Helping others find happiness  brings an inner peace and sense of worth that is beyond measure.  It can fulfill you like  nothing you could ever purchase or devise alone for yourself.  It is the true measure of a man(woman).

I am not sure that I can provide any type of physical evidence nor proof nor examples to support my position, as this is an entirely subjective topic that may differ among individuals and their own personal sense of morality and being.  What I have stated here is only based on my personal opinion and beliefs.  To each his own, such as life.

However, as per instruction, a rebuttal argument may be that ones personal achievement should be foremost and center in their lifes. therefore, achieving ones personal goals would bring a sense of satisfaction and self-worth which would ultimately lead to their happiness.  I guess that I could imagine the argument, however, again, for me personally, it would only be a superficial happiness that would be short-lived and ultimately unfulfilling.  Perhaps it is just my personality or astrological sign (Pisces), but I have always placed more value in giving to others than to myself.  I do not know if that is a character flaw or not, but it is who I am and who I have always been at my core.

So, in conclusion, for me, happiness comes in pursuit of  others.  By doing for others, I achieve purpose, goals, and satisfactions -- not only theirs, but my own as well.  There are no losers in this route, only winners. So how could this be wrong?
I strongly believe that this is path that all of us are meant to follow.  Help mankind and in doing so, you help yourself.  It is a higher plane of being and the only way for humanity to ascend.

The end.
