Happiness is a concept that is recognized by all to be important. However, what exactly constitutes happiness, and how to obtain it, isn't as clear. Some people believe that obtaining true happiness comes from pursuing their personal goals. Others argue that it only arises when focusing on the happiness of others; that in pursuing something other than their own selfish goals they are capable of achieving happiness as a byproduct. I believe that it is the latter who are correct. Without considering the happiness of others, any personal achievements and successes ultimately ring hollow.

Consider for a moment an oft heard distinction between children and adults. Come Christmas, children are undoubtedly excited to receive gifts and fervently look forward to curating their wish lists to send to Santa. On Christmas morning, they open their presents and bask in the excitement of their new toys. However, this glee is often short lived. As the days and weeks drag on, they begin to forget about many of the toys and start looking forward to the next holiday and yet another opportunity to receive more gifts. Compare this to how adults often describe the holidays. It is very typical to hear adults speak of how they prefer giving gifts to getting them as they age. The joy on their friends' and family's faces fills them with happiness. In fact, it isn't uncommon for adults to struggle with ideas for gifts they themselves wish to receive!

This is a good metaphor for how to approach achieving true happiness. When we struggle and selfishly pursue only our own goals, the joy from achieving them is short lived. Often, we become so single minded in this pursuit that by the time we achieve them we have no one to enjoy the achievement with. Instead, if we focus on the happiness of those around us who matter, we can achieve a deeper, more lasting happiness ourselves. The experiences we share with the people we empower strengthen our relationships with them and in turn empower us as well. This refined support network can even be of use in achieving our personal goals in the long run.

Some will argue that in focusing on others, our personal goals take a back seat; that after all is said and done the people we help will be happy but we will feel empty, without achievement of our own. I would argue that this is shortsighted. Rarely do you hear of people on their deathbed wishing they had spent more time at work or pursuing self centered goals. In fact, many people who at one point in time are heavily invested in such pursuits talk about how focusing on others helped them realize what really matters in life. I contend that the bonds and relationships gained through helping others find happiness help us to realize what really matters in life. It is in fact these very relationships that are important and in recognizing this we have also achieved happiness for ourselves.

In conclusion, I believe that true happiness ultimately comes from helping others. The relationships formed through this process produce long lasting and meaningful happiness while also helping to further more self focused goals in the long run.
