In general, people are more happy to focus on their personal goals than focasing on the happiness of others.  Here's why.

Most people, if they focused on the happiness of others (ahead of their own goals), they might feel happy at first, but, in the long run, while seemingly happy making other's happy, they will most likely realize that they are not truly making themselves happy.  They may come to the realization that it's not about making oneself happy by helping others be happy, but just by the fact alone that because you make other's happy, that's a good thing, and you should be happy doing that.  They may realize, say, near the end of their lives that they never got to persue their own paths, and the potential happiness that could have resulted from that persuit, thus feel a sense of regret and unfulfillment.

If, on the other hand, you focus on making yourself happy first, your happiness will most likely be extended to helping others, especially if you are doing good things, as opposed to doing bad things for your own personal happiness (eg criminal activities, or if you are the type of person who gets happy seeing other's suffer.)

Making yourself happy first on an ongoing basis, doing good, and not bad, will help build your character that eventually will become contagious.  Your fruits will show and other people will see that, and maybe some of your happiness will spread over to them. 

There are some downfalls to this as well.  Being arrogant, conceited, rude, inconsiderate, immoral, a criminal, etc., while making yourself happy will not make other people happy.  You might feel you can ignore what other people think, but eventually life has a way of leveling the playing field, so to speak.  Call it Karma, or call it related to your faith, or your belief in God or a higher power, or something else.  You can't be happy and a jerk your whole life and expect to continue being happy long term. 

Therefore, aiming your focus on your own happiness AND doing good, will also help other's and, hopefully, aid humanity in the long run.

