There are two trains of thought in regards to ones hapiness. Some feel that true happiness is achieved by focusing on an individuals own goals and dreams. Others feel that true happiness is achieved by focusing on the happiness of others and the overall improvement of humanity. 
The fact is, people are more likely to be happy when they focus on their own personal goals. While there is nothing wrong with paying attention to those around you and the happiness of others, an individuals true happiness will occur when they are focused on and actively achieving the personal goals they have set for themselves. Having goals and aspirations are what make life worth living.  They give meaning to each and every individual. These goals can be as simple as getting a good grade in school or as complex as starting a family. They might even include activities that will, indeed, focus on bettering the lives of others and improving humanity. Each person gets to decide what goals will make them the most happy and each person's goals are likely to be unique.
Accomplishment is a wonderful feeling. Setting a goal for yourself, working hard toward achieving it, and ultimately seeing it through is a very rewarding process. 
Some might say that focing all of ones efforts on the happiness of others or the improvement of humanity is more rewarding or more important. The problem is, as great as these efforts can be and as rewarding as they can be, an individual may still feel a sense of emptiness at the end of the day as they see others around them experiencing happiness from achieving their own goals while the individual is left wanting for self satisfaction. Again, if an individuals personal goals are goals such as donating, adopting, working at a shelter, etc. then it is certainly possible to focus on one's own happiness while also contributing directly to the happiness of others. 
It is always nice to help other people. It is always nice to contribute to society and to improve humanity along the way. Much of this can be done while still maintaining a focus on one's personal goals and happiness. When you put your own goals and happiness first, you will ultimately find that there is some crossover to making other people happy. However, if you spend all of your time focused on other people, you risk neglecting yourself. 
