President John F. Kennedy once said, "Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country." President Kennedy perhaps was of the belief that happiness is attained by focusing on the happiness or wellbeing of others. Not everyone would agree; many people are very focused on their own wellbeing, and their own goals. Achieving these, they feel, will make them happy. So which is more likely to create happiness? 
Personally, I think it is silly to try to determine that; every person is different. Some people feel incredibly happy when they achieve their personal goals. All you have to do is watch the Olympics, and see the beaming, albeit exhausted faces of swimmers who emerge from the water victorious. Sure, they may ultimately feel pride for having won for their country. But the moment the race is over, unless they were swimming the anchor leg of a relay, the winning swimmer is thinking, "I WON!" instead of "WE WON!" Even the anchor of the relay race may be thinking that, particularly if their team was not in the lead when they hit the water, and they personally pulled out the win for their team. Feelings of pride that extend to their team, their family, and their nation may follow, particularly when they stand on the podium listening to their national anthem, but their real joy is from their personal victory.
Perhaps, though, it is different for athletes of team sports. They may feel happy about their contribution to a team win, more than a personal victory. Particularly a bench player, who only saw action for a minute or two, the glory may be for "We" instead of Me." They may feel happy for having helped others to a medal. Contributing to the happiness of their teammates may be their source of satisfaction. 
And that is exactly my point: there is no one way to achieve happiness. For some it comes from their own achievements, and for others it comes from helping others. The social worker who helps someone get back on their feet is not going to be happier than the person who finally gets their own life in order. The surgeon who repairs a patient's spine is not going to be happier than the patient who finds that they can walk again. Actually, based on the dour personalities of many activists and social justice workers, helping others doesn't seem to really create happiness at all. There are certainly other forms of satisfaction tied to the work they do, but even when they succeed, a lot of them seem merely relieved for a moment before they move on to another cause. Tilting at windmills didn't make Don Quixote happy, and it certainly didn't give a moment's joy to Sancho Panza.
Even for individuals, it is probably possible to achieve happiness both ways, by reaching their own goals, or contributing to a better world for other people. These are but two pathways to happiness, and most people, other than narcissists and martyrs, could probably walk both paths and end up at the same destination. 
Maybe, just maybe, both things are the same. If it is my personal goal to make the world a better place, once I have made the world better, I have achieved my goal. Am I happy because I succeeded at my goal, or am I happy because the world is better for everyone? 
Does it matter? I am happy either way. Maybe researchers trying to determine how to people can achieve happiness ought to let everyone decide for themselves. 
What makes one person happy may not work for another, and if you advise them the wrong way, you may just make them miserable, and make them feel like a failure instead, when they pursued the wrong path and it didn't make them happy.
Find your own happiness, everyone, using your own map.

