Society as a whole has fallen into a vulnerable position, brought upon by simple manipulation and misdirection. Have the masses become so incapable of maintaining attention or a desire to, that simple colorful presentations can distort their outlook of a person, place, or an item? There are many possibilities in this unfortunate situation. Does a person know best in these current times? Can they see through the shiney packages, desirable outcomes, or sugar coated words. The reality hidden behind such constructs is easily dispelled, should one desire to pass through to the other side.
The general attention span of adults in our time has deminished at alarming rates over the decades. To have the want to look beyond simple distractions, should be a reasonable task for one to handle. Were it not for theamount of time one would find as acceptable and worthwhile. Clearly a mere five to ten seconds  will not always suffice when dismantling or unwinding a web of misdirection. Perhaps the idea of straying away from the comfort of being herded along with others in one's life would be too bothersome. The fear of becoming the "odd man out" could well up anxieties, one may feel, are best avoided. To have a unique thought and insight while standing in a sea of people who are willing to accept the words they hear and the sights they see as truth, can be easily seen as off putting for those who wish to  avoid any negative attention.
Perhaps the issue on hand is not the countless individuals who have turned into a mass of misguided, misinfored mobs, but the lack of preperation one has before venturing into the "real" world. Too often have I felt, that my inability to comprehend a situation or how to handle a situation has left me unable to act. A method to determin a path for ones self, a process to decipher the riddles fed to you, the desire to untangle a mass of string could change the outcome of how one responds to what is presented to them. It is possible that we have moved too far along this path to rectify and change the trajectory of the masses. As time moves forward, such tactics have proven to be monumental in determining political events as well as general sales of mediocre products alike.
I do not know anything about writing. The form the structure, how to deliver statement, how to argue a point and set it in stone for someone to soak up. Thirty minutes is quite a long time to realize how limited my education is. How unequipped I am to properly handle this essay. It is but another example I feel can be applied to this prompt. How I wish there had been a time in my youth that I could have found a method for creating my own perspective into words.
The traditional methods of the past which was show, trained into me, just never could stick in my memory. My lack of creativity and confidence to put it all in words for others to read, keeps me from being able to apply some of these basic thoughts upon myself. They remain as ideas that simply float around above me until they slowly rise above the clouds and into the abyss, far beyond my reach and ability to comprehend. 
Thank you for your time in reading these thoughts of mine. My time has come to an end.
