    Happiness is a feeling we as humans all can relate to.  No matter where you are from, what you look like, or your background, happiness can be found everywhere.  It is a feeling that is elusive and can be difficult to obtain at times.  Things that used to make you happy may or may not have the same affect as you grow older.  

    Growing up I, like many other children, tended to focus on my own goals and happiness.  What would make me happy?  What is my purpose in life?  Where do I belong?  All of these things and more seemed easy enough to achive at the time.  Everything is so new when you are young.  Discovery is around every corner.  Happiness could be achieved with little to no effort in my youth.  Whether it was walking down a new trail outside or playing a new video game at my friend's house, happiness was always just a few steps away.  

    As I grow older, things started to seem more familiar and feelings got more complicated.  Some of the simple things I used to enjoy were now merely a memory.  Responsibilities started to stack up and I found myself worrying more and overwhelmed at times.  Things started getting so complicated and I would long for the days of carefree summer with friends.  

    For me these feelings continued as I struggled to find my purpose in life.  My path to travel on.  I was thinking so narrowly and only looking in the mirror.  I grew up and eventually found the love of my life and all of a sudden it hit me.  This was no longer just about me, it was about us.  My decisions affected her and hers affected me.  Of course!  This seemed to be my answer for my journey back to happiness.  

    Things that I could not stand to do, now I would happily complete them if it brought a smile to her face.  There was nothing I wouldn't do for my wife but as time passed, I slowly found myself entering back into the chase towards happiness.  How could this be?  My career was finally shaping up and I found the woman of my dreams.  How could I still struggle to find happiness now?  

    It was the birth of my first born child.  The birth of him felt like the rebirth of me.  The second our eyes met, I broke down into tears.  At that very moment it was clear to me that I would do anything for my son.  I had a family.  My love for them was so intense that it hurt sometimes.  

    My mindset had completely changed to the point where I'm not sure I could recognize the old me.  Every since I became a husband and a father things became more difficult.  I had less money and so little time to focus on myself, but that didn't matter.  Happiness for me more intense than ever and yet so simple.  Focusing on my family made me happy.  My wants and lust for material items and experiences felt so empty and juveline.  

    Happiness was taking care of my family.  Looking after others outweighed any happiness I obtained from just thinking about myself.  At times it may seem like adding more responsibility on your plate is insane if you want happiness.  The truth is that true happiness can only be obtained by helping others.  It doesn't have to be in the form of children or even family but finding a way to take care of or focus on others is the only true bliss worth chasing.  
