I feel happiness is a combination of people pursuing their owns dreams and goals but also when helping others achieve their own dreams and goals. Happiness is a multifacted thing. To be happy I need to first look at myself and what makes me happy. Once I have mastered my own happiness I then need to look outside myself to help others find their happiness as well. In my own life I do this everyday. I am pursing a new career and am working hard torwads those goals. I know once I achieve this goal I will personally be happy. However, if I achieve this goal my family will be happy as well. My husband will feel less pressure to support our family and my child will be happy because I will be able to provide him with more toys and things that support his age appropriate dreams and goals.  My child's happiness is therefore also dependent on me focusing on my personal goals. So by focusing on my own goals I am also improving humanity around me. 

People will definetly argue that there is no way happiness can be both. People will say I cannot be happy if I am looking to help others find their own happiness. I challenge this thought process by saying how can that be? How can a person not feel better and more happy when they are helping others. A selfish person will say I am only happy when I am doing my own thing. That person, to me, is actually living the saddest life off all. Happiness can be found outside of ourselves just by looking and offerring support to others. Happiness is a basic human emotion and at the end of the day we all want to be loved and feel happy.  I think happiness comes to those most who help others find their own happiness. 

Happiness is not just one thing. I feel I cannot be independtly happy if the others around me are not happy as well. As a wife and mom I feel this throughout my core. For instance, if I focus on just me in my family there is no way everyone else around me will me happy. Therefore, happiness is a combination of people pursing their own dreams and goals but also when helping others ahievve their own dreams and goals. I truly do not think it is possible to be truly happy without both focusing on your own personal goals and on the happiness of others. I dare you to try and change my mind. I really cannot find any argument to make me change my mind on this issue. 
