Competition and cooperation can sometimes go hand in hand in the real world. I am here to tell you that for the most part, though, that cooperation will almost always result in less personal success than competition.

Competition will most always produce a better outcome for the person who is trying to get to the top. Imagine being at work. You and your favorite coworkers complete a big project. How exciting! A big raise is coming, but only one of you can get it. This will leave the rest of your group having completed a large amount of work, but with no reward for their, or your efforts. Had you completed it yourself, you wouldn't have any feelings of animosity, and you wouldn't be wondering if you wasted time or resources for another persons success. 

Now I know this sounds selfish, but it is the nature of the beast of raising up the ladder. While some may say that you should be happy for your coworkers, what good does that do for you when the time for that big raise comes and you are stuck making the same wages after doing the same work? 

In a perfect world, everyone would help everyone out and everyone would have an equal share of the work, with and equal amount of benefits and success. We know that is not the case though. 

Sure, cooperation may help sports teams or groups, but when you're watching that superbowl, are you really paying attention to the little guys who are helping to block and protect the quarterback and receiver? That quarterback and receiver are who gets the recognition and success. 

To further on the sports analogies, lets imagine you are playing against your best friend, who also happens to be your biggest rival. You are going to play harder, as compared to if you and your best friend/biggest rival were on the same team. Of course you might play pretty well together on a team having known each other and played the sport together before, but there really isn't much that can compete with that fire set inside of you when you feel like you have something to prove!

The question is simple, does cooperation or competition lead to more success for people? If you are putting in as much work as someone else who is reaping more rewards, would you continue to do as much work? Would you give up and feel like you were in a rat race going nowhere? 

If you want to make it to the top, you have to view everything you want to overcome or do as a competition. Even when other people aren't involved. You can use competition to push yourself further and complete more goals that you gave yourself. 

Competition can be used as a healthy motivator, and can result in much more success than cooperation when you are trying to succeed!
