Competition versus cooperation - which is more successful in achieving goals? While cooperation requires that several people work towards a common goal to be accomplished together, as a team, competition is similar, but quite the opposite. Competition is several people working towards a common goal as well; however, each person is working individually to do it faster and/or better than the next person. 

Success may be achieved either way. Unfortunately, competition can drive people to do things they wouldn't normally do such as sabatoging an opponent or cheating to win. Coincidentally, cooperation is likely to bring forth a sense of teamwork and belonging, which will bring more success in the long run. When everyone is out for themselves vying for the top spot or prize, they are focused on one thing - winning. They often don't care what they have to do to win. In a cooperative environment when everyone is working as a team to obtain the same goal, they are only helping each other. Things are not usually done in haste when everyone is cooperating as opposed to when they are competing. 

Many people have the opinion that competition is a much better way to achieve success than cooperation is.  They say that it is a much more motivating factor.  While it may be true that competition is the better motivational tool when it comes to certain individuals, it is much more beneficial in the long run for people to feel like they are part of a team and working together. For example, a woman named Lydia was in a competition at her work for weight loss. Lydia was extremely motivated to win the prize of $100 if she lost the most weight. She would bring in cookies and other unhealthy snacks for her coworkers to try to sabatoge their diets. She did not feel good about doing this, but she wanted to win. She ended up winning the money only to turn around and spend it on food and gained the weight she'd lost back within weeks. The next year she suggested that instead of a competition, the workplace hold a weightloss program which entails everyone working together to lose the weight and then for every pound lost, a dollar is donated to a certain charity. Lydia lost even more weight than she did the first time! All of the employees worked together, gave each other tips,  and brought in healthy snacks to share. They even started walking together after work. They ended up raising almost $200, the employer decided to match it, and they were able to donate nearly $400 to their charity!  They all felt great and realized what the power of teamwork can do. 

All in all, cooperation can definitely bring about more success than competition. Working together is the way to go in almost any situation. So much more can be achieved when you are working with someone instead of against them, especially when success can feel so much better when you didn't do anything negative or morally wrong to achieve it.



