All products are not a real one that people use fullfilly ,but most of the mistakes occurred due to entertainers or politicians advertisement appearence , the real truth behind them is they didn't know how the product works but they doing for thier popularity and money . People should analyse first how product works. We want the basic knowledge of the product before we buy it. Everyone likes the favourite politicians, entertainers and other public figures but we should aware what they promote in the society that suitable for ours.

In every stores many colourful packages are shown for their own profit because they want that people should buy the their own product.This the strategy were used all companies and they using popular entertainers for their product advertisement , that one of the best trick cover the audience to buy , because peolpe will trust the product that their favourite entertainers advertising.The most truth is the popular entertainers are the brand ambassdor of the product but they didn't use the product that what they said.

The independent is every people have the rights to know about the product and must research about the product before use. It is necessary for every human beings in the society , don't be blind about the popular entertainers , we must aware about that what the companies injecting about the product. One thing the companies are the producers and the people are the consumers , so the most power taken by the people , so everyone must question the product that any wrong with that.All product are not bad , some products are very genuine that what they said and shown in the colourful packages, its are trustable product that what they shown. But some scam companies and thier products are not fullfilled what they said , in that suituation we must have the product knowledge first and if u need buy it otherwise give awareness to the people who going to buy , its not a news , it is a rights to explore. The kind request was awareness , awareness, awareness , its all about basic knowledge , it is a main thing every person have in day to day life .Learn everyday about new launched products that promoted by the popular entertainers , politicians and other public figures . No doubt all the one , analyse everything that main thing in the society . Everyone must learn day to day life about the society and the new thing that surround us. 
