I'm a great fan of comedian Lewis Black. For me, few performers capture that internally-spinning rage quite the way Black does, and has for decades, now. Not only do his performances make me laugh—they also provoke thought, even if couched in all the vulgarity his audience has come to expect. One line of his has stuck with me and becomes relevant today, and I'll paraphrase it here both because my memory is imperfect and because I think it may be inappropriate to reproduce some of his word choices: "What the ultra-rich seem to think is that, 'He who has the most stuff when he dies wins.' Well, you're still dead, twinkletoes—you didn't win." I've heard similar sentiments expressed all throughout pop culture: "I'm going to spend every last penny before I die. You can't take it with you!" "I want the last check I write to bounce." "I hope my kids aren't expecting anything; I'm going to die in comfort."

Morbidity aside, I can see the draw of thoughts like these. It's true: whatever religion or lack thereof one might subscribe to, one's money and possessions don't transfer to the netherworld. But if that's true, then, what's the purpose of STUFF, anyway? Why are we so preoccupied with it? If it's ultimately meaningless in the grand scheme of things, what, Nietsche might ask, is the point of it all?

When we die, what do we have?

In the end, our lives are nothing more than a series of experiences. We live, we exist, we ARE, and then we cease to be. One might saliently argue, then, that material possessions and wealth have precisely nothing to do with the quality of our experiences. I wouldn't argue, in fact, that this isn't the case. Things, money, "stuff"—they certainly don't dictate the quality of the family dinners we share, the friendships and romances and heartbreaks. Ultra-rich Bill Gates' marriage is ending amid infidelity and scandal, while in every housing project and slum in the world there are fairytale romances that pass the world by, unnoticed.

Clearly, then, our insistence on "producing and consuming more and more stuff" is not the path to a rich and fulfilling life. One might be tempted to dismiss materialism altogether, then, and move on to more "wholesome" societal attributes we might want to organize our lives around: the real treasure is the friends we made along the way, no?

I hesitate.

We die as nothing but our experiences, it is true. That being the case, though, I cannot help but ask whether the Platonic purpose of these possessions, these stores of value, is not precisely to make those experiences better. I wonder whether, on the whole, our system of economic growth and consumption was not intended, originally, in its perhaps-uncorrupted form, to make those life experiences more pleasant, more meaningful, for the greatest number of people. Because for every fairytale romance in the projects, I would be willing to bet my bottom dollar—heh—that there are a dozen stories of heartbreak, addiction, and lack of opportunity, and that it is precisely the stated goal of capitalism to raise the tide to lift all ships, as the saying goes. Research has shown that above a critical threshold of a household income of $80,000 per year, additional wealth does not produce additional happiness, but that implies just as strongly that below that amount, people suffer. Experiences—the sum of everything we have at the end of our lives—become less and less enjoyable.

"But writer," I hear you say, "Doesn't that just mean that gatekeeping experiences in the name of economic growth is the true evil?" In a vacuum, absolutely, but the fact remains that we do not yet live in a post-scarcity society. As skeptical as I am as to whether capitalism has worked as intended rather than being twisted into serving a shadow oligarchy, it is still the case that in its purest form, capitalism—which is little more than mathematical materialism—has the consequence of bettering the life experiences of the greatest number of people to the greatest extent possible.

This is not to say, of course, that such materialism is the end-all-be-all of happiness and rich, full life experiences. Far from it. But above a critical threshold, it is our material possessions which allow us to solve Wordle puzzles with friends rather than dying of dysentery along the Oregon Trail. And while it may be worthwhile to examine whether the pendulum has swung too far, it is not reasonable to suggest that society's materialism, at its most basic, Platonic form, is not a worthwhile goal—or, at least, a proxy for one. It contributes to all that we can really take with us to the grave. Experiences.
