Modern society is full of people who frivolously spend money on items they they do not need and will not desire in the near future. Some people wil argue that this materialistic spending is necessary to how our society functions and that these items are essential. Others will say it is a waste of money and attention. However, these is no denying that this trend does exist in our world today. However, due to the massive consumption, waste, and environmental conserns, modern society should be critizied for their materialistic values.
 
The high amount of materialism that exists in the modern society is dangerous for the environment and comes with a high financial cost to individual people. As people buy more and more items, of course they spend more and more money. This comes at a time when people's wages are worth less and less due to inflation. Therefore, this results in people spiraling into system of working for years and years to go waste their money on the newest material thing they want right now. This leaves them without much money and a lot of items they don't really need. On the other side of this, there are buisnesses trying to keep up with this demand. They must use resources to make items, which end up being taken out of the environment in some way. This is damaging to the environment as it continues for years and years. These buisnesses also produce harmful emissions as they try to produce products as fast as they can. In the end, all modern society is left with people who are working too many years of their life with very little money, an environment that is being abused, and buisnesses who will do anything to increase their bottom line.

The good news is that there is a way out of this mess. If modern society can change its values from being so materialistic to being more minnimalist, everything can change for the better. This would allow people to spend less money on items they don't need and therefore have to work for a smaller portion of their life. This would lower stress across modern society. Reducing materialism would also greatly help the environment. Buisnesses would be producing less. This would result in less resources being taken from the environment and less emmissions being produced. All of this together would create a society with lower stress and a healthier environment.

There are those that will say materialism is ingrained in modern society and cannot be removed or deminished. This is a short term view point and does not stand up under critial review. Throughout history, humans have developed and continually improved their societies. This has resulted in an improved quality of life for the average person. It is therefore logical that this development toward a more perfect society must continue. This will result in society shifting away from being so materialistic. Yes, this will take time. However, if we look far into the future and think about how society must develop to improve, the only answer is to shift away from materialism and toward only producing what one actually needs to be comfortable.

Modern society will continue to suffer for being materialistic until something changes. Something must be done to change this, or the world is doomed to continue this trend. The good news is that there are several groups of people already shifting away from materialism. What is beginning to occur will be the slow but sure departure from modern society's materiastic focus. All that will result from sticking to materialistic values is unhappy individuals in a world that is slowly but surely being destroyed until the enironment is no longer livable for anyone.
