The motivation to achieve goals in various contexts can be influenced by important interpersonal factors. While some may believe that individualistic features such competition produce achievement, more collectivistic features such as cooperation are a better facilitator of the success of oneself and others. 

Competition-based environments are highly stressful for individuals as they create tension, feelings of frustration and restment, and suspicion among individuals working towards similar goals. However, when collaboration is fostered, individuals may consider their achievements to be recognized as achievements that are possible with the help of those around them. Thus, these individuals may be more motivated as those around them are considered to be teammates as opposed to competitors, which may prompt individuals to trust and seek help from those around them.

While highly competitive enviorments may produce more achievements from individuals, these achievements may come at a price. It is not uncommon for individuals in highly competitive environments to view the achievement of others as threatening to their own self-worth, which may prompt them to want to achieve more than someone in a similar status as themselves. However, this outlook may be damaging not only to the individual, but to those in similar statuses. Comparisons may highten one's anxiety and cause emotional distress if one believes they are less than others and can ultimately impact their performance. Thus, by reducing the amount of comparison between individuals, there may be less anxiety and fear provided by a more collaborative and cooperative environment. This may also result in better proress and less fear towards achieving one's goals. 

In addition, cooperative environments create better support systems as the emphasis is more on collaboration with others than the individual. This can result in individuals feeling more comfortable seeking guidance and suggestions from others without the fear that someone will steal their idea or will want to see them fail. These methods can also lead others to refine their ideas and goals which can promote feelings of confidence and competence. While these methods may result in a longer timeline than those in competitive environments, the thoughtfulness and consideration in cooperative environments may lead to less obstacles in achieving goals. 

The power of competition and cooperation have been largely debated, as well as their impacts. While competition may be a way of promoting achievements and accomplishments as individuals compare their achievements to those around them, the emotional and mental impact may manifest as lowered self-worth and a decrease in productivity. This suggests that cooperative and collaborative environments may be most beneficial in producing lasting and more significant accomplishments and achievements as working with others creates better support systems and emotional fortitude.
