It is often said that happiness comes from within, but that discounts the ways that the outside world affects our feelings, especially our satisfaction with life. Focusing on the happiness of others to achieve an inner peace may lead to disappointment, as we do not control the minds or the circumstances of others. When we focus on ourselves, on our own goals, we then have the potential to find real happiness.

It is important to first consider what goals are when considering which ones can make you happy. Goals can be relative, short-term or long-term,  and they can change over time. Relative goals are goals that concern your environment, and as your environment changes, the nature of the goal can change. Some environments are not conducive to any achievement or any form of happiness, but other environments are. It's important to discover the place that is healthy for you, one that gives you the opportunties and resources needed to set further goals. 

Short-term goals and long-term goals are the bread-and-butter of goal establishment. Short-term goals should be goals that help set behaviors in place and provide daily satisfaction. Little things like reading something at least once a day or making your own food allow for constant growth and creativity. Long-term goals establish the central hurdles in our lives and the journey to overcome them. Long-term goals should be established as they give us something to strive for.

Life, though, is an evolving beast. It takes on new shapes and sizes, and changes how we think and what we think about. Your goals always change, and it's important to accept that when the circumstances are no longer the same, you must reset priorities and plans. People often do not change in their natural communication; because of this, trying to work on their happiness might result in habitual failure. Since goals change, you at least have something you can adapt to, and something that provides potential for betterment.

For some, focusing on the happiness of others might be their personal goal, and they might believe that is what will produce a better world. But focusing on yourself, the thing you have the most control over, is what will produce a better world. Your responsiblity to others is important, but it will not produce personal happiness if it becomes your focus. People are too capricious, and will inevitable disappoint you. The happiness of others is often outside of our hands. I can't make someone else the popstar they want to be, become their dream lover, or give them all the riches in the world. At best, I can make sure I am not an obstacle to their happiness. They, like I, must commit to what they want to do and find satisfaction from that. Working together is important, and establishing good relationships is as well, but our deepest happiness comes from becoming the person we see ourselves as and then sharing that with others. Maintain your duties to others, but don't forget about your duty to yourself.

When you become your best self, that is when people like you most and when you can make them happy. A happy person is someone people want to be around, and someone who makes other people happy. Focusing on yourself brings personal satisfaction, and therefore, person who can make other people happy.
