What is happiness?   A question that has been asked by generations upon generations of humanity.  The truthful answer to that simple question is, happiness is what you make it, but then the question becomes, how do I attain happiness?  That question holds many answers, and for many, many of those answers won't be correct.  My personal answer dear reader is to attain happiness by assisting others.

Happiness is something that I believe can be shared amongst us all.  If one person is happy, they will make it a point to pass on that happiness to another, leading to what could essentially be descrbed as a "conga line" of joy.  There are many examples one can pull from an average day that attributes to this effect, examples such as someone paying for the persons behind them meal, or helping a stranger who's car has died on the road with no compensation other than getting to know them.  However, even with such a belief and examples, I know there are people who gain their happiness purely on their own.  Often times these methods are selfish and  can be destructive for personal relationships or even our society on a large scale.  Examples of these people can include a husband whom cheats on his wife, for the pleasure of a night, or a millionare who cuts the wages of his workers to raise his profits.  These people are happy, but in the wrong way I think, because they do not contribute to the "conga line" of joy as described, and as such, make it harder to give happiness to others.   Rarer times I do admit there are examples of these people who gain their happiness through their own methods in positive lights.  One can be satisfied with their work for example, or another can be pleased they've discovered the answer to a complicated question.   Even with such examples though, as stated these times are often rare.

I believe if we all work to make each other happier in life, we all will also improve one another's lifes.  There is my answer dear reader, that we can all be happier if we all contribute to the idea of making others happy.  With that I hope I've also convinced you to take up this idea of granting others happiness to gain it for your self. 
