In my own personal opinion when given the choice between the concept of cooperation or competition being the most beneficial towards success I believe that cooperation would be much more advisable to reach success because cooperation in itself is the act of ome person or a group of people working as a team to accomplish a common goal and if everyone is working together it increases the odds of doing a much better job or seeing a much more positive outcome with everyone participating and helping each other.

While competition does have value and it's own benefits and rewards towards sucess the downsides can lead to discouragement when there is only room for one Winner and despite how hard the person who comes in last has worked on the task they are still labled as "the Loser" and that is discouraging for anyone. 

If at all possible, in my opinion when there is a circumstance where more than one person is involved in a task it's better to combine skills, energy, and intelligence to complete the task and this also in my opinion improves the quality of the final outcome whereas a project completed in competition can leave people with an anxiety to be the better person or risk being labled as not the best and this can cause mistakes in an otherwise perfect performance. Without the compeition you will find the task at hand to be much more pleasant as well. The only real benefit of competition would be if time is a factor and the individual performing the task will be working at a more increasingly unstable pace while the team will generally keep a smooth steady relaxed but productive performance.

I would recommend that everyone team up and assign each person to a specific task but make it clear that if someone needs help or gets stuck on something the other team Members are there to assist. With everything going along in the task smoothly it is much more time productive and just makes sense that this strategy would be to the benefit of the project. 

Competition is easier for some perople than others and these people are most likely thrive under pressure. Not everyone is able to work better under pressure because it can make you nervous and create unnessecarry mistakes that you wouldn't normally make and this damages the outcome of the final project. There are circumstances where the competition is more logical as a method such as when two people are qualified for a position and he menager wants to see who works better under pressure.

Neither way is a concrete eight or wrong way of doing things but people have different strengths, weaknesses, and capabilities and competion would be an excellent way to help judge between the two people and see who is a better fit for the position and this could go the other way too because there are many positions and activites that require teamwork and the ability to be a prodcutive member of a team is a skill that everyone should have.

Overall the advantages of teamwork outnumber the advantages of competition so I believe that accoding to circumstances of course, in most cases teamwork is the way to go when you need to complete a project and even in competition itself, some competitions can't even be completed without the benefit of cooperation. We live, work, and play in a complex enviroment and any time you can work with someone rather than against them the results will speak for themselves with quality, effectiveness, and speed. Even though a person may prefer to work solo on a project sometimes it's just plain vital to form a team and unite their strengths and level out the weaknesses.
