In a world of like-minded humans all attempting to make the best lives for themselves, one would expect the best results from furious competition. Many people look to nature and use it as evidence of such. The lion who drives away a competing male feasts within the territory with the most food. Likewise, the societies we've built in the past few centuries ride upon the back of capitalism and the competition it drives. A company is expected to provide better service than its opposition. Superior service drives customers to deal with said company while its competitors starve for lack of trying as hard. However, this is a misconception. History does not remember the lion. His bones rest in the ground, same as all the others. The company dissolves, is purchased, goes bankrupt. Despots die, statues fall. Even the greatest inspirations in recent times, like MLK, are but the tinder that lights something bigger. No matter what efforts an individual takes, the best they can hope to be is the spark that starts a movement.

Some people may believe that events such as the Space Race are a perfect example of the rivalry of nations - and to an extent they'd be correct, in that the funding and drive necessary was only available due to the will of the United States government to win a figurative victory over the Soviet Union. Yet much like the Space Race, every lasting legacy can be traced back to an entire team of collaborators that built it. Whether war or peace, each event that changes the map is a group effort. NASA may have been founded to defeat a rival of the US, but their collaboration is the key to their lasting existence. Were NASA to simply focus on victory over all else, adopting the same nationalistic spirit as those commissioning their efforts, we may have still been the first to the moon. We might have even made it there faster - the desire to win is a powerful motivator! However... it would have dissolved soon after. Little would remain, for without the bonds of cooperation and the friendships it kindles, there would be no drive to go further. No reason to stay together. The job is done, go home.

Even when forced, one can still see the desire to work together, our social bonds as humans, and the effects on the lasting parts of our history. The pyramids of Egypt may have been built by slaves under orders of a cruel government, but those slaves still worked as a team. The monolothic structures served to display the grandiose of the pharoah to the world, pitting the most impressive structures of nations against each other in a contest of wealth. But in the end the pharaoh did not built them. Those workers bound in chains, whipped to haul and lay brick; in making certain they did not fall behind, they supported their comrades in arms. To dally would have made things harder for all those who toiled with them, but by collaborating they were able to build a historical set of wonders that still persist today, four-thousand years later. When a tourist visits the great pyramids, he doesn't think of the pharoah. He wonders how they were built and stares in awe at the majesty of their construction. Such grand collaboration fills his heart while the rivalistic lion who ordered it is forgotten.

Though leaders of communities, nations and movements will always point to opposition to stir the masses, the people who move to accomplish great things move together. Attitude is everything, and a competitive attitude does not last. A directed mob will roll over their rivals, but without the will to remain together, the world eventually forgets them. Things go back to how they were, as none remain to oppose it without the bonds that could have been forged under better circumstances. On the other hand, a team can build something that lasts through the ages and follow through to keep it there. The reasons matter less than the attitude taken by the people. An attitude geared at a collective effort, at helping those around you to get the job done - that accomplishes the greatest of feats.
