Materialism is often criticized, but it is also never fully defined.  The act of taking pleasure in acquiring material things is, at it's base, a streamlined definition of materialism, and using this definition, I would state that people in our modern American society should not be looked down upon for simply wishing to have nice things.  

When most people think of a "materialistic person", they think of one who has taken things to an extreme (think Imelda Marco's shoes or the golden apartments of Donald Trump).  We think of people who see their worth as a sum of the things that they acquire or the elite designer hoarders who spend more than they can afford.  On the spectrum from materialistic to utilitarian, however, most of us fall somewhere in the middle.  For the majority of modern society, our purchases are utilitarian, in that they serve a function and we'll shop for the best deal we can.  We don't all buy the best television or run to the grocery store in Jimmy Choo shoes, but we do splurge.  A woman may really want a great designer purse and will shell out $350 for one, but she may also own 3-4 others that came from Khols.  Should she be maligned because she cherishes that Michael Khors that she picked up?  Absolutely not!

Most of us are materialistic to some extent.  We want nice things.  We want a good car that is reliable, yes, but we also want one that looks nice and has all the bells and whistles.  We don't necessarily need those bells and whistles, but we want them.  We want our children to look nice in public and avoid getting ridiculed. Can we take it too far?  Of course.  And those that do, may put their finances in jeopardy or signal to their children material possessions is what brings happiness.  The truth is, "things" don't bring happiness, but they sure can bring pleasure, and there just isn't anything wrong with seeking pleasure.

Of course, we've all seen people who believe that the acquirement of things - espsecially pricey things - makes you a better person than those who don't have those things.  Generally, these are people who are sad for so many other reasons and deserve our pity and sympathy more than our derision.  For those of us in the middle, though, certain things can make an otherwise normal and ordinary life feel a bit more special.  Wearing an expensive diamong necklace on your anniversary or bringing out the fine china on Thanksgiving can add a sprinkle of joy.  Those possessions are materialistic in every way, but they shine in our lives.  And that's ok!  We're allowed pleasure that doesn't just come from friends and family.  We're allowed to find joy in a new pretty dress or the newest phone even if we already have a perfectly useful dress or phone. 

So the next time you think about criticizing someone because they just snagged a great Calvin Klein dress or spent just a bit too much on a car, remember that, for most of us, we're just enjoying life the best way we can. 


