The most successful societies and cultures have been those that have emphasized the power of working together toward a common goal. When we think of the most impressive feats in human history, what do we think of? The artitecture of Ancient Greece, with working irrigation systems and cities that rival those of our modern times. We think of the impressive artistry of Russian composers and ballerinas. We think of film that defies the confines of time, with storylines accessible across cultures. All of these efforts reuquired countless numbers of people working together to achieve a singular vision.

Even so, we humans so often fall into the trap of believing that to be successful in life, it has to come at the cost of someone else being unsucessful. This mindset inevitably relies upon competition as its sole motivator. It is unsurprising that we fall into such a trap; indeed, for all of history, competition has been vital in determining who earns a living and who doesn't and who rises above their station and who does't. However, to view success in this way -as economic gain- is an overly simplistic way of interpreting the world. 

Although we all require essential needs such as adequate food, shelter, and healthcare, and these should all be considered universal rights, there is a way to ensure everyone can access these rights by working together. Look at countries like Sweden and Germeny, where the collective good is considered the measure of success. In these societies, cooperation is the key to a thriving economy and a high quality of life. 

Some say that competition inspires creativity and invention. While competition can certainly incentivize creativity and invention, it is no guarantee of success. What IS much more likely a guarentee of success, or at the very least an indication that something is headed in a successful direction, is when more than one person shares a vision and work cooperatively toward it. Cooperation enables inspiration, joy, and visionary ideas. The power of one is not as strong as the power of many. As the saying goes, it is much easier to break a single twig than it is to break a bundle of twigs tied together. 

Morever, the effects of working cooperatively are more likely to be long-lasting and significant. If one person's vision is challenged, it is easily overturned or led astray. But when many people are working together on accomplishing something, it is much more likely to stand up to subsequent challenges as those are likely to have been worked out among the group, who will invevitably come to the sitaution with their own perspectives and backgrounds, leading to a much more well-rounded, sustainable product. 

An additional potential negative consequence of competition is that much of the population may avoid even trying in order to avoid failure or embarassment. Competitive scenarios favor the brave perhaps, but also the arrogant, the ones who want to win at all costs, and the ones who feel they have something to proove. 

Cooperation is at the heart of long-term and meaningful success. We began by thinking to the past of what we consider its biggest successes. We can end by turning to the present, to examples big and small. Marriage equality? A cooperative effort. Putting on a local theatre production? A cooperative effort. Starting and maintaining a community garden in a community with little access to fresh food? A cooperative effort. People are social beings; we are meant to work in harmony with one another. We no longer have to go out to fight others to secure our food. The power of cooperation has shaped history in profound ways and will continue to do so if we can focus on the needs and common goals of the many, not the needs of the few.
