Fast food, celebrities, and politics; what do these three categories have in common? At first glance, the answer may not be readily apparent. Looking a little deeper however we can see that all three of these things rely heavily on impressions. whether those impressions be advertising, marketing, word of mouth, or even negative press, impressions are what shape an individuals feelings towards something. Every day throughout the world a large portion of the the population is exposed to media in the form of images; whether those images be videos, pictures, post on social media, or written. While we as a species may not consciously consider the fact that these images have an impact on how we perceive different ideas or form beliefs, impressions and images play a large role in our lives and possibly may have too much of an effect.

If I were to go out in the public, it is likely that I would at some point eventually observe a stranger consuming some form on media on their cellphone. While what they are viewing specificially may not necessarily be important, what is important is the fact that they are viewing this material and that this behavior can be observed frequently. If I were to stop observing this person in particular, I am certain that without fail that the same behavior could be found with another individual. Images and media affect our brains in ways that are not completely understood by the majority and this can be deterimental if not considered long term. An example of this would be childhood obesity. While cellphones were not always readily in the hand of the majority, fast food advertising has caused a rise in the rate of obese children and can be seen in effect well before the rising popularity of mobile devices. With flashy cartoon characters and colorful bright images displayed on a screen for the youth to see across many different platforms, it is not difficult to see how these sorts of images have formed an impression on obese children. While this is not the norm for everyone, the fact that this has had an effect at all is a detriment. Not all children will eat fast food because of these advertisements, but overweight children are more likely to further hurt their health because of these advertisements.

Images and impressions play a large part in how we opinionate our ideas. This is something that we must consider in our daily lives.


