As a child, we all heard the classic tale of, "It's what is on the inside that counts." Going into adult life, that saying takes on a very real meaning. Anything from the food we consume, the products we purchase, to the people we idolize. We always have to look deep to find what things really are, or who people really are. Generally, however, we as humans are naive and take thing at face value, but is that a bad thing?
When you think of people portrayed in media, what do you think of? Perhaps glamorous celebrities and influencers that seem to have the perfect life with everything so well put together. Those instagram pictures of smiling kids holding hands with their well put together parents, all decked out in matching off-white sustainable fashion. We are constantly force fed this content of the picture perfect life which, lets be honest, we have all compared ourselves against. The key here is 'picture' perfect, and when you think about it, how realistic is the idea that  any of these peoples lifes are constantly exactly how they show it online?
I personally believe what is portrayed in the media is just the things people want you to see. You don't often see the reality of anyones day-to-day life, the nitty-gritty, any of the imperfections. Thats not what appeals to people, not what gets veiws and likes. Think of all of the shame people get online for showing the reality, from their real unaltered bodies, to their messy houses, people don't want to be shamed so they keep up an artificial perfect life online. Not to mention cancel culture, so often peoples real  life is leaked and they are banished from the internet, some rightly so, but some also for the bare minumum of just being real. We let these peoples ideal image and impression effect us so much that we really believe that is how they are 24/7 and go as far as shaming them for being their real selves. I think we let it affect us way too much.
In this I am not saying people should not have this perfect online prescence, everyone is free to do as they wish. They shouldn't have to put all the negitive aspects of their life online and deffinately do not have to prove themselves to anyone. Too often these picture perfect influencers are under so much pressure to look their best and act like they have it all together. The reality? So many of these people are just trying to feel good and express themselves. They want people to think they have the perfect life, but they still have their own problems and imperfections just like anyone else. No one is 100% perfect, whether it seems so or not, and no one has no unhappiness or struggles in their life. So what should we do? 
I think we should let people be, enjoy their beautiful pictures and glamorus lifestly online, but always take it with a grain of salt. Remeber that what you're seeing is the best side of people, the part they want you to see. Most importantly, always try your best to not let the people and images you see online influence you too deeply, never compare yourself to others and apreciate what you have. Images and impressions have and always will have an impact on us, and it is in our hands to acknowledge our stuggles and why we let these things effect us so much. 
