In the way that people can live vicariously through others, people can source happiness in the same manner. People are more likely to be happy when focusing on the happiness of others rather than themselves. Secondhand happiness is what makes people happy in these instances. It's like happiness is contagious; when you see someone you care about feeling good, you feel good too, especially when you're the person that made them feel that way. Since humans are social beings, we rely on other people for mood receptors, and we magnify each other's moods. If a loved one is feeling down, something great happened that day to put you in a good mood, your mood is likely to come crashing down to meet the negative energy that is being felt around you. 

Some might argue that it is better to focus on achieving personal goals in the pursuit of happiness. While this does come with a sense of reward, this can be much harder to achieve. Personal goals may rely on factors outside of your control. For example, if getting a promotion at your job would make you happy, your boss needs to like you and there needs to be an open position for your to move into. This may not be possible. It is also possible you could do everything right to get this position, but management just liked somebody else more, and you're left feeling terrible instead. If you focused on making others feeling good around you, that can be done as simply as providing your boss a compliment. This small and simple gesture will make them happy, and that can make you happy too. Not only that, but this might help you achieve personal goals as well. Furthermore, if you were to take the self-interest approach and focus on your own goals instead of others, you may end up hurting people around you, which can also make you feel poorly. 

When so much can go wrong by focusing on your own goals rather than on the happiness of others, it's questionable why anybody try to be selfish over empathetic. If more people sourced their own happiness on the happiness of others, the world would be more kind. By focusing on the happiness of others, we make others and ourselves happy, and there is no better feeling than pure hapiness.


