True happiness comes from a life lived in service to others and the good of all people. As social creatures, it is our deepest nature to derive pleasure and satisfaction from helping others achieve happiness. Buddhism teaches us that all beings wish to be happy and to be free of suffering. While it may seem counterintuitive to suggest that by pursuing anything other than one's own goals, happiness can be achieved. Indeed, it is exactly through the act of serving others that inner peace and harmony is found.

On the surface, it may seem very straight-forward that in order to be happy in life, one should go after their heart's desires. However, mankind can have a tendency toward selfish and destructive behaviors that may ultimately place one out of balance with society and nature. The relentless pursuit toward self-centered aims leads to societal problems such as wealth inequality, the devastation of natural resources, and poor quality of life for the masses. As demonstrated by the United States' billionaire class, the suffering caused to others by pursuits of self gain is immeasurable and, as we see this play out in capitalist economies, unending. If the pursuit of personal goals truly lead to happiness and fulfillment in life, then eventually these pursuits could come to an end once those goals had been achieved and one would enjoy the benefits of one's efforts. This is clearly not the end result of selfish endeavors, as the wealthy and powerful only seek to continue amassing wealth and securing their positions of power, regardless of the detriment done to others. This would indicate that perhaps the fixation on personal goals, in fact, does not lead to a happy and satisfying life.

Throughout history, we see the most meager and humble rise to notoriety because of their selfless acts. The names of figures such as Mother Teresa, Ghandi, Nelson Mandela, and even Jesus Christ - whether a real or fictional character - echo throughout history not because of the wealth and power they hoarded for themselves, but for the selfless deeds and humanitarian acts they performed in life. Through their good deeds, these figures have earned the admiration, respect, and love of countless people and can feel at peace with having left the world a better place for having been alive in it. This is the true meaning of happiness.

So many external influences would have you believe that a self-centered life is the best way to live happily - we are constantly fed this messaging from social media, advertising, and influencers. But we must remember the true aim of those forces: to make us lifelong consumers of the product that they are selling. Often times the product doesn't even matter toward the goal of marketing, what they are seeking to promote and sell is happiness. If that was achieveable through acquiring more objects, wealth, or status, you would never need to consumer another thing again.




