Thinking about the way modern society operates, materialims is a fact of life. In truth, in the absence of moving off the grid and becoming a hermit, its influence is impossible to avoid, even while doing seemingly unmaterialist things. I would wager to guess that if you were to talk a walk outside today, there is a good chance that along your route, there would be a billboard or sign sure to grab your attnetion and try and convince you to acquire something. Or, maybe you are more in the mood for an intellectual activity, going to the library perhapse. One would think it a place impossible to be materialistic. After all, all the books are free to use and have to be returned, making the personal accumulation of them impossible. It would seem the perfect place for a minimilust to escape. Perfect if it were true.  Indeed, it is not, for my library frequently has hundreds of books available to purchase of a small fee available to anyone who wants to buy them. They are the discards, the dematerialization attemps as it were, of the place set up to prohibit just such a thing from accumulating at the personal level. I find it increadbily ironic. Such is life however, and I intend to make the argument here that rather than be criticized, the materialzation in modern socienty should be embraced.

Now I am sure that is likely to be an unpopular opinion. I can just hear the arguments spouting forth now. That's immoral. It's wasteful. Nobody needs all that stuff to be happy. While good arguments those points make, they all exist in a reality that is not currently present. By that I mean, such arguments describe an ideal, a state of being what would be aspired to. Yet, such expectations are unrealistic.

Rather than being unhappy with the way things currently are, materialistic culture should be embraced for that it is. It is the way things operate. The economy of a modern society operates by selling things to people. To keep the economy going, soceity needs to be materialistic. So, to criticize materialism is really like shouting at the clouds and then being thankful that they bring rain. The very thing that people decry, there being too much stuff, is excatally what makes modern society the comfortable place that it is for most. 

People, on the whole, have better living conditions today than any other time in history thanks to materialism. The constant innovation that allows for improved technology, appliances, effeciency, and like is bought about for the purpose of getting the consumer to obtain something they don't have. Think about where the computer industry would be today if peope were not materialistic and were always on the look out for the latest and greatest in the hopes of acquiring it. If people were just happy with what they had, we would still have computers doing simpe math that take up a whole room to do it. Think of everything that has come since then that would be impossible. Surely the internet has its probelms, but I think most would agree that they have at least obtained some monacome of benefit from it. It has fundamentally changed the way we communicate as people, and it would not have been possible without materialism.

It is truly a waste of time and ultimately counter productive to criticism modern society for being materialistic. It is the way that society operations, and I don't see how that could change anytime soon. It is far better to embrace it rather than fight it. Further, it is materialism that has brought us to where we are today. Unless someone is willing to being growing their own food, but only just as much as they need, live in a tiny house, and walk everywhere they go, they are being hypocritical.



