Happiness is a difficult thing to obtain and define for some people. If I were asked "What makes you happier? Personal goals or improving the happiness of others" I would likely choose a healthy mix. Some people have a preference, as an example my father loves helping people, it makes him happy in turn. But he knows when he is being taken advantage of so if real honest appreciation isn't recipicated then that happiness starts to sour. So why is happiness hard to define and why can it be challenging to obtain? Humans are complex animals, we could have everything in the world and still not be happy. Perhaps personal goals play a deeper roll in finding happiness?

What kind of personal goals can blossom into happiness? I'd argue most people don't really know what makes them happy, there is a hidden element they are missing that they've yet to give a try or blindly walk into. One important but often over looked way that can make you happier is simply getting healthy. Eating the right foods, working out in your home or a gym. Molding your body into something that makes you feel good will not only make you happier it will make you more confidence and I like to say that confidence is a product of happiness. On the opposite of personal goals there is improving the lives and happiness of others. The next time a friends asks for a hand, say yes and see where it takes you. Not only will you grow personally you will build a bond and in turn help them advance and grow along the way. Just open your mind and be willing to help.

I feel there is plenty of evidence to say both are extremely beneficial and any healthy person should give both a try. If you feel you have no friends then try working on you personal health, it will improve your opinions on yourself and that in turn will absolutely improve your happiness. Once you have that confidence to approach people you will find that making friends isn't that difficult and together you can work towards being happier. That said there is more to personal goals then just getting healthy physically, mentally is important too. Pick up a book or interact with others to discover new information, intelligence can be important to improving happiness depending on how you already think. Furthermore being smarter can also help your social interactions and find new ways to help people find their happiness when you're capable of thinking outside the box.

Now I know that happiness isn't something always easily obtainable for everybody. Some people suffer from depression and really struggle to find the motivation to not only find happiness but to be happy. And it might seem odd to try and improve the happiness of others while you yourself aren't truly happy. Mental health is extremely important in finding a balanced mix of happiness for yourself and others. Life can be rough for all of us, but for some it can feel nearly unbearable. Happiness isn't something that just knocks on the door and invites itself in. You have to be willing to chase it, catch it and learn how to harness it. Perhaps you have yet to discover what truly makes you happy, something that not only improves you own personal goals but the happiness and goals of others. But it's out there if you're only willing to look deep.

Personally I have goals of starting my own business, making a decent amount of money. I would like to feel secure in life and improve the life of my family. This goal is an example of that healthy mix, so maybe look at the idea of starting a family and being a pillar for it? Remember that there are people that love you and depend on you, even if that dependance is something as simple as existing. As I said earlier, happiness is hard to define. It differs from person to person and personal goals can be just as hard to define without the proper motivation and confidence. You must be willing to take control of you life. 

I've seen a lot of sadness in my lifetime and I've been in positions where I had the things I wanted but I struggled to stay happy. I can't stress this enough that happiness is far easier to aquire and keep if you have a balance of personal goals and the happiness of others. There are people out there that likely love and cherish you, you just have to meet them. And there are those hidden goals we talked about that you need to discover for youself and improve upon. Just be willing to give it a try.

I really hope that my endorsement of a balance between personal goals and the happiness of others helps people out. Sometimes we forget how to be happy or maybe we feel we don't deserve it. But don't let those feelings conquer you. Set your personal goals and persue them, you will be happier along the way. Make friends and/or become closer with your family, in most cases the happiness of others improves with something as simple as your presence. Help yourself so you can help others and eventually they will return favors because it makes them happy and it makes you happy. Make sure the people you are helping to find happiness actually care about your own happiness. If you do this you should have a nice cycle of building upon the happiness of yoursef and others. So go out there and be happy, spread happiness to all those you care about and find that balance is importance in all things.
