The issue of materialism - the quest and desire to aquire things - has been around since the beginning of man. From deseperate beginnings of survival, man figured out quickly that those who have the most survive. The need to have enough food, enough tools, enough shelter and clothing became critical to survival - those who had those things lived and those who did not, perished. For those who could not aquire as much there created a sense of longing, and a sense of jealousy. Those who had a lot likely were always on a quest to want more, just as those who had nothing were on a constant quest to have something.

That way of thinking never went away. Societies have been built on mans' desire for things. Over the years materialism developed from having enough to survive to having enough to be admired. Those with the most gained high status in society setting the standard for class systems. Those with money were at the top, those without money were at the bottom. It became a way of life that still exists to this day.

Some might say materialism is bad, and that it is unhealthy, especially to the people on a constant quest to have more. In a large sense that argument is right. Materialism leads to selfish behavior and greed and the lack of understanding that by taking more others have less. In some ways materialism can be a healthy competition. Someone that lacks might work harder to get something, instilling self confidence in oneself leading to a more positive view of oneself and life in general. On the other hand, materialism leads to issues, such as crime, where some who do not have the ability at all to acquire nice things become desperate, frustrated, and often enraged against those who do have more. That way of thinking leads to crime in the way of stealing, and even murder.

In the end, materialism can be good or evil. It really depends on the person and how they are able to handle having a lot or nothing at all. Certainly there are people who have a lot who do not want more, and are still good people, and there are people with nothing that can still be content. It all rests on the individual person but it cannot be denied that materialism will never go away and society will likely never come to an ideal resolution to dealing with it. Materialism is here to stay, and critisize it or not our society would be no better or worse without it.
