     Happiness: an idea which means different things depending on who is asked. Likewise, how to reach happiness is a hotly contested question. Do we achieve happiness by pursuing our own goals, or by focusing not on our own happiness, but that of others and the improvement of humanity? Happiness is reached when we pursue our own goals, for multiple reasons.
     We all have different goals in life. What makes one person happy will not necessarily improve the happiness of others. When we pursue our own happiness as individuals, at least one person is guaranteed to be happy. It can be much easier to determine what makes one happy and take steps to reach that happiness, when compared to the opposite: attempting to figure out what makes others happy. Once a person decides what happiness means for them, it is often easy to achieve- whether happiness is purchasing a home or improving one's physical fitness, or a multitude of other goals. It is easy because we can only control ourselves, and as a result can do what it takes to make ourselves happy. Attempting to make others happy introduces multiple challenges that are not always easy to overcome.
     Helping others achieve happiness introduces questions such as, what do others need? Where should I begin? Is this an achievable goal? These can be very difficult questions to answer, as each person will have a different answer. Therefore, we will likely be unsure how to help. When attempting to serve others in the pursuit of happiness, we may feel ineffective and as if our efforts are in vain, making us likely to end prematurely due to discouragement.
      Choosing to focus on our own happiness gives us a personal goal in life to reach, which in turn focuses our attention on ourselves. As the saying goes, "Put your oxygen mask on before attempting to help someone else put their oxygen mask on"; meaning, we must first fulfill our needs before assisting others. Happiness is a human need which we can fulfill for ourselves, and we should do so. After that, we can gladly help others.
