There are many thing which inspire people to do well in life.  Some people may be motivated by working with others, while other people may be motivated by trying to out perform someone else.  While many people may have a personal choice in the matter, I feel like there is a definite answer to this statement.  I feel that there are different sides to this theory and would like to explain my stance on how I feel.  

I feel that most people are driven in this world to do better than others.  In this case I would say that success is acheived more by competition than cooperation.  Many people want to be better than others and thus will try to compete in order to do better.  In situations of cooperation people are more likely to be lazy and not try as hard.  When people need to out perform someone else, a different desire to do well kicks in.   

The proof that I have of this is in my own life.  In one of my jobs we were given a task to come up with a puzzle as a group and then share it with others.  There was minimal effort involved and when the project was done we just submitted whatever we had drawn up.   In that same job there was a different activity on a different day where we were asked to come up with a design logo for the company and it was a competition.  Many of us tried much harder to come up with a winning design including me.  

On the contrary it can be argued that all people are different and will behave differently.  Therefore, it can be argued that for some people, cooperation will acheive more success.  Some people thrive on working with others and shine the most in those situations.   Some people may feel like they need the help of others in order to accomplish their ideas.  

In conclusion I stand with my idea that competition is what produces more success.  I have seen that outcome in my life and in personal situations.  It is how I operate and that is why it makes the most sense to me.   There are many instances that I can think of where competition brings out the desire and drive in people.    
