Materialism. When you think about it, a lot of people are caught in it, or they work and work, scrape and scrape, to get caught in it. Many people believe that what they own, what they can flash off in front of people, defines who they are. These are the people who are trapped in the destructive concept of materialism. Everyone works for money, then they go spend that money on things that are ultimately meaningless and provide only a short burst of happiness that typically fades because few things purchased last forever.

One of the most unfortunate parts of materialism is that it attracts the wrong kind of people to you, and that can be destructive. Pure concepts like friendships and love can really boil down to just one thing: How much money you have. Money doesn't last forever, and once you lose that money and material objects, you really start to see people for their true nature. What's another unfortunate part of materialism? You fight for the things you own, but when we leave this world, we can't take our things with us. No matter what happens to us when we pass on, all we do is leave behind things other people will fight each other on, and the cycle never stops.

To answer the question, yes, I do believe modern society should be criticized for being materialstic. The real problem though is that not everybody makes it to the top. Many work very hard their entire lives and never reach the pinnacles that someone like Jeff Bezos or Elon Musk obtain, and that's the fault of society: The rich get richer and the poor get poorer. There's many faults in society, especially in America, but one of them is the divide between social classes. You're judged by the things you can buy, the things you wear, the car you drive... You're judged on everything the minute someone sees you except for the things that actually matter. Are you a good person? Are you honest? Are you kind? Things like that don't matter to most people. If you walk into a store wearing fancy clothes, everyone turns their head and thinks nothing of you. Walk into the store with a hoodie, old sneakers, and sweatpants and suddenly store employees are following you to make sure you don't steal anything. That's just one of the many negative impacts materialism has had on society.

How do we stop materialism from impacting society even more? Unfortunately, I don't think there's a way to. People like owning things. People like trying to prove they're better than one another, even if that only means they can afford better things than the next person. It's human nature to want to at least appear better than others. I believe being a good person should account for more than how much money you have in your wallet, but then again, I'm doing this hoping to get 11 dollars. Maybe I'm just as materialstic as everyone else...
