Happiness can be an elusive thing for many people.  People search their whole lives for a sense of meaning and purpose that brings them happiness.  Some choose to focus on their own personal goals and dreams. Others tend to focus on pleasing others, and that feeling of generosity and kindness can bring one happiness as well.  While each person has to decide how to achieve their own happiness, pleasing others tends to produce a happier, more fulfilling life than focusing on oneself.

Personal goals are certainly important.  Most people want to strive to be the best that they can be.  But when one has a family, a significant other, close friends, or other loved ones, it feels good to be able to be helpful to those people.  There's only so much that self-gratification can do to make one feel happy.  When one contributes to seeing others succeed, and providing happiness to others, it makes the person who facilitated that happy as well.  Sharing in those feelings with others is a much more powerful experience than when one focuses solely on themselves.

Others might argue that personal goals are more important, because you can't be happy with someone else if you aren't happy yourself.  There may be some truth in that, but there are also very few people who are happy being alone and isolating themselves from everyone else.  When you truly care about other people in your life, you want for their happiness above your own in many cases.  Putting someone else's needs in front of yours is a life-changing experience that gives one a significantly different life perspective.

It's not a bad thing to have personal goals and dreams.  It's helpful to improve oneself and provide motivation.  But a healthy balance is important, too.  When one looks at both sides of the argument, the benefits of focusing on the happiness of others far outweigh those of focusing on personal goals. Sharing happiness with others is a much more powerful feeling than the satisfaction that comes from achieving personal goals.
