The conversation between competition and cooperation has been compared throughout many businesses, industries, sports, and in everyday lives. Many individuals make their stance based upon their overall happiness and contentness regarding these two subjects. One person may feel more compelled to do better or complete work if there is an opposing force competing for the same reward or goal, while another individual would feel better cooperating and comparing ideas with others looking towards the same end goal. Every person works and functions a different way, and possibly even in multiple different ways according to the situation they are places in. Depending on the subject and the goal of whatever the situation is, either side could propose a good defense as to why it acheives more.

I believe that more people would argue that cooperation leads to a greater chance of success when compared to competition. My beliefs behind this reasoning refers to school and worplace situations, such as working on a company project to expand or innovate upon current standards, or in a school situation with multiple students contributing ideas and reasons to complete a specific task in any subject. Generally people will see a situation in only one or two dimensions, meaning they are not thinking of every specific situation; however, these issues can be mitigated with the inclusion of other individuals that can help expand or elaborate on certain ideas or additions to further develop a thorough thought process. Competition also makes a good stand, especially in the workplace where positions and spots for certain projects may be extremely tight. Competition is good in the sense that it pushes an indiviudal forward to start thinking of new and innovative ways to develop and go about certain processes and projects, while keeping in mind that there are others also trying to do the same and much better than everyone else. One big issue with competition is if you end up falling behind, as that can lead to extreme discouragement and possibly damanging one's mental state. Competition should be implemented in a way that is rewarding for most or all parties participating, or at least being able to facilitate a safe environment that will not allow any idiviudals to be harmed, in any state, after the conclusion of such project or event.

Whie my core beliefs align with cooperation being the overall best method to utilize in coorperations and industries, I still think a competetive environment can allow for workers to push themselves and encourage learning of new ways to increase their viability and show they are competent in learning new technologies. Incenetives that are awarded to the top placing workers in a company may promote higher work performance and improves work ethics amongst workers. Things such as monthly awards for high perfoming workers are amongst the best rewards to encourage learning outside of just the scope of their usual duties, and can lead to higher rankings compared to their coworkers.

Cooperation and competition look to solve a certain problem using different methods of delivery, and often promoting different types of work ethics. Cooperation could allow cowokers and manager to collaborate a lot more closely and lead to the sharing of ideas, while competition may lead individuals to keep their knowledge to themselves, which could be worse if another employee could help build upon their ideas. I believe cooperation has a higher potential of achieving more success, and in a higher scale, than competition, but either method could certainly have specific pros and cons that would make someone want to go with one method over the other. 
