Materialism is indeed a core element of modern western life, but that does not mean that is should be. The drive to "keep up with the Joneses" has driven many people away from the important things in life. A culture driven by materialism leads to negative outcomes in one's personal, familial, and communal life.
As children all of us have dreams of what we will do one day, but as we grow up, it just becomes expected that we will give up on those dreams to focus on more pragmatic pursuits. This leads to a great deal of regret and a lack of fulfillment from one's personal pursuits. This is because of how we are driven to materialistic pursuits, sure, you don't play guitar for a living, but at least you own a nice Les Paul. How could life be different if we were paid a proper amount and thus able to take care of life's needs while also leaving more time to spend on hobbies. However in the pursuit of material items, many people work far more than what is necessary to get the bigger house, the better car, or the next technological gadget. These things do not often provide personal fulfillment and instead only serve to make people more miserable in the long run as they continuously sacrifice their precious time to focus on these material pursuits. I'd prefer a life where everyone could get fulfillment and think of all the art and beauty that would be added to a world that wasn't weighed down by these constant material needs.
What's more is that people sacrifice their family lives to pursuit material wants. It has become a cliche for the middle or upper class child to be left alone as their parents continue to work in order to buy them more and more things. What families need is to stay together and to spend time together. It is not uncommon for a husband or wife to leave their partner for someone they know at work and this is because they end up spending more time with their coworkers than their own families. Conservatives often point to LGBT people wanting basic rights as the reason behind the breakdown of families, but I would point to the constant and persistant need to continiously earn more and more and more at the expense of time with your family as being the driving cause. These breakdown in familial life lead to a lack of support and feelings of isolation that have become all too common in modern day life.
Beyond the family though, we have seen the destruction of communal life in our material society. Neighborhoods now serve more as a competing ground rather than a community. You need to have the better house, the better car, the better lawn than your neighbors or you're falling behind. This leads to more infighting between the middle and lower class of people who should be banding together. Communities should look out for one another and pool resources for those who need them, not just for the trend of the week. This also leads to an acceptance of billionaires hording wealth because people see themselves as doing something similar. A communal life should be praised not shunned.
Now all of this isn't to say that buying things for yourself is always bad, I buy things for myself just like anyone else, but these things should not be the goal, and they certainly shouldn't demand sacrifices in our personal, familial, and communal lives. I would prefer a society where we are all able to find fulfillment outside of a material needs. This would lead to a brighter future for humanity and one where we could seek a collective enrichment for ourselves, our families, and our communities. Imagine what that future could mean.
