     In this current day and age with the rise of social media and new age marketing, people and things can be seen as something they are not. Social media allows for us to creae false narratives surrounding a situation to make things seem like they are for better or for worse. Advertisers can create stories about their brand to make their customers feel an emotion that gets them to buy their product without even knowing with their product does. People on social media can create filters that completely alter their appearance, making them be seen different in the public eye. Overall, the world is evolving to where people are able to hide their true feelings and intentions too easily, and the average person needs to be aware of the signs that the content they are viewing may not be what it seems. 
     I want you to think about the last advertisement that you saw, whether it was on a billboard or on social media. What was it about? Did the advertisement directly mention the product or explain its use? Was their a flashy graphic propped up on the advertisment that brought in your attention in the first place? These are questions to wonder when dealing with an advertisement, and it is important to view the advertisment as a whole, instead of one piece that seems interesting. There are many tactics being used by businesses and advertising agencies because over time, these companies have learned how to persuade their consumers using their emotions to buy their product. One tactic may be to throw up a big sparkling sign or image that really pops out and grabs the consumer's attention. The graphic may have nothing to do with the product but it may be enough to grab somone's attention, and get them thinking about the product and potentially going to buy it. Another tactic involves sharing a story that may be sad or happy, hoping to make the consumer feel a specific emotion that ties into them buying the product. The product may never actually be talked about besides its name, but the emotions tied to it may be enough to provude a sale. Advertisers and businesses have gotten really good at selling products without even mentioning the use of the product due to how easy people can be persuaded based off their emotions, and it is important to fully step back and look at a product before coming to a decision on whether or not you'll be purchasing it.
     Social media is another problem when it comes to people believing fiction over reality. Social media offers so many outlets that anyone's voice can be heard if they want it to be. On top of this, social media also offers ways of anonymity for users so that they can share exactly how they are feeling without fear of judgement upon their actual lives. On top of this, social media has become so prominent that many celebrities have rose to fame because of their social media presence which often revolves around their appearance and looks rather than actual skills or talents. Due to the rise of fame from social media, many people tend to try and replicate that success by using filters to enhance their appearance or buy creating fake stories to get views and recognition. Social media has become so large that there is something for everyone, and a lot of the time people become to attached to their online presence and forget what the real world is actually like. They become so used to likes and shares on social media, the filters they use, and the fake narratives that they create, that they don't even recognize what is real and what isn't. This is also why many politicians and celebrities get away with using their appearance and lies for fame because many users on social media can't even tell the difference. Social media allows for people to be someone they aren't, and a lot of the time, people forget that social media isn't real life; because of this, their opinions are altered to favor a more dishonest and fake culture than the relaities that are often right in front of them. 
     Overall, the tactic of creating something that isn't exactly what it seems to be is just going to become more prevalent as social media and businesses grow. There will be new methods to create false naratives and create an online presence based off something that just isnt' true. The one thing that we can do to prevent this is to just be aware and not let social media overtake us. When we see an advertisement, we need to actually think about it and wonder if we actually need this. When we see a post on social media, we need to wonder if it is actually real. This isn't to say go around and be distrusting of everything you see, but it is important to stay diligent on what the things around us actually are before we begin to start belieiving in the false narratives. It is easy to want to forget about the realities of life and take a break from it all, but we begin to lose who we actually are as a person once we start seeing things as what we want, rather than what is actually there.
