Happiness can be hard to find, and not everyone ends up finding it. People are more likely to be happy if they focus their attention on the happiness of others. When you put others first, you don't have time to worry and obsess over your own problems, the world becomes a better place, and it makes you feel good in the process. Putting others first is the key to happiness.

When you spend your time focusing on others, it means that you aren't focusing so much on yourself. People that focus on themselves all the time end up being selfish and unhappy. They tend to be more negative and don't have as many friends. This is because people don't want to be around others that can only focus on themselves. I have found personally that the more I focus on myself, the more negative my attitude is. I start thinking in more of a "poor me" way because I expect others to take care of me and serve me, instead of serving them, and then I end up disappointed and upset. This mindset never leads anywhere good.

When someone tries to focus on others and give back  to the world, the world becomes a better place. You're able to make others happy and it makes them want to pay it forward. When people see someone doing good, it's likely to spread. Everyone needs help now and then. When we help those in need, it puts them in a position to then go on helping others when they can. The world becomes a better place. Think about how much the world would improve if each person helped someone else every single day.

Focusing on others just makes you feel good. The joy you feel after helping someone in need is indescribable. There is nothing like it. It puts you in such a positive place that you automatically want to do it again, just so you can feel this way again. Making someone else happy is the neatest thing you can do. Helping someone in need fills others cups while also filling your own. After helping someone else, you can walk around feeling good about yourself. It gives you a reason to be happy, where you may not have had a reason before. 

Happiness isn't always easily achieved. But I've personally found that putting others before myself leads to happiness the most. Having less time to focus on yourself and your negative thoughts and feelings makes things a lot more positive in your life. Serving others and doing what you can makes the world a better place. It makes people want to do for others too. And focusing on others happiness feels good. It makes you feel utter joy. It is the best possible way to achieve happiness. 
