Money makes the world go round. How many of us have been seen an episode or commercial about the Kardashians? How many of us have danced to or scrolled through a TikTok? By far, images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. Unfortunately, we rely too greatly on what others say and do versus having our own opinions. This leads to celebrity and pseudo celebrity images profiting off of the everyday person. The Kardashian family is a prime example of this. Most of the family members have not completed or been to college. Yet, they are much wealthier than the average person. Why is this? It's because for some reason, their images, ideas and impressions have such an effect on the average person. The Kardashian image creates such an profit off of people who care aobut what they think, say and look like. For example, the youngest of the tribe, Kylie, has created an empire based off of her image and ideas about make up, even though she has no formal education in business or fashion. Also, TikTok has so many "influencers" who make an abudant amount of money solely based on their images or ideas. For instance, the most wealthy TikToker is a young girl named Charlie Damelio. First, the fact that I'm an adult and know who this girl is represents how sad our world is today. With no college education or formal background training, Charlie made alot of money by posting 3 minute dances on TikTok and having advertisers pay her for doing so. She is considered someone who influences others. 

One might argue that these influencers and famous people deserve their wealth because they do have such an effect on people. They do such a great job effecting people becuase they've built their reputation on their so-called expertise. The point can be made that these people making the effect are in deed smart because of how they are able to use their images tied in with social media and advertising to prosper. This, however, would make my point. Why should images of other matter to us? Why should I buy Kylie Kardashian make up because of how it looks on her or because she likes it? Why should I use a certain hair product because a teenage girl who dances on TikTok said it's a great product?


In conclusion, images and impressions of celebrities and so called celebrities have too much of an effect on people. Rather than enhancing someone else to suceed and/or gain more wealth, we should focus on our own ideas and try to prosper ourselves. Instead of being like someone else, it's important for us to find and be comfortable with who we really are versus trying to be or think like others. 
