Images and impressions have entirely way too much of an effect on people. More often than not, people will willingly pay more for a product with fancy packaging over one that appears more bland.
I know for a fact, from my girls, that pretty packaging screams out to the buyer. While walking down a toy aisle, full of bright colors, everything is an attention grabber. My oldest will claim something she wishes to purchase with her allowance, happily place it in the shopping cart and then excitedly prepare to rip into the package to redeem her items once out of the store. After much time and effort, attempting to open everything displayed, she beams with delight at her new possession. Shortly afterwards, it is time to dispose of the product's package into the trash and cardboard. It never ceases to amaze me, at how much trash comes from even the smallest of items. There is always a huge pile to throw out, while your new shiny toy barely takes up any space.
As a parent, I dread dealing with all the twist-ties, wires and such that hold a doll into her box. Although, I can see why manufacturers choose this way of advertising their product line. It is a great deal for them! They make tons of money from sales, and in return, can continue to make more products that interest the customer. Also, making something more difficult to open in the stores can result in less theft. Anyone who has tried to open a toy from a box, now days, will know that there is absolutely no use trying to steal something from it while shopping. It is a shame that some have pushed it to this extreme and can't be trusted. Personally, it would be wonderful if everyone could be trusted to be honest in stores, therefore perhaps allowing more simplistic designs for products.
Overall, while I only mentioned an example of toys, this happens to many other brands of items. Some potential customers don't need all the bells and whistles to purchase products. If you happen to have a great quality item, then it will definitely sell itself.
