In today's society, image and first impressions seem to be held on an extremely high pedestal. We buy expensive non-necessities only to display them, pick a name brand over a generic brand (even if they do the same thing), and judge eachother based on what brand we may or may not be wearing. We are often persuaded by packaging or advertising and will put up with products that are subpar if they look good on our counter. The same can be said for celebrities and public figures we see in the media; they acquire an unattainable beauty standard by airbrushing, photoshopping, and editing and let us believe that we can achieve the same if we only tried harder. This can be extremely disheartening, especially for young children and teenagers.

It is becoming more and more normal to see people with thousand dollar bags, hundred dollar shoes, and accesories that cost more than your weekly groceries. Despite the fact that the cheap or 'knock-off' versions of these items serve the same purpose and may even be comparable in quality, there are still people who will go out of their way to spend copious amounts on products just to show that they can. We praise celebrities for their expensive style and, despite the fact that most Americans are living paycheck to paycheck, we long to be like them. Stores will stock cheap products that suddenly become luxury because of whose name is on it. 

If there wasn't a market for these types of products, stores would not stock them. If there was no viewership for these celebrity programs, television stations would not broadcast them. So what's the harm in this phenomenon? One could argue that because it is not directly hurting anyone, it is not a big deal. There are more important things to worry about, right? But the ones being harmed the most by these things are teens and young children. When they see these things in stores and in the media, it can lead them to believe that first impressions and outward appearances are all that matter. I see young women and girls belittling themselves daily for not looking like the airbrushed models on TV, young boys who criticize themselves for not having muscles like the actors who have endless freetime and the best personal trainers at their fingertips. 

In conclusion, I strongly believe that images and impressions have a huge effect on people. This ideology that your outwards appearance and people's first impression of you is all that matters can be extremely harmful to the psyche of both adults and children. Pushing products that do not work but make you look cooler, luxury brand names that are no better than standard off-brand products, and celebrities who airbrush themselves to be unrecognizable then criticize normal people for being lazy or not trying hard enough. We as a society need to start advocating for more quality products and more appropriate rolemodels. Give screentime to the doctors, lawyers, police officers; people who are making a real visible difference in the world and who are not just pushing a product or a brand. I belive it will make more of a difference than you might think!
