                                                                                                                                     Are you happy? 

                                                                                                       Well are you? Are you sure? How do you know? 


        Ahh happiness! There's nothing else like it! That moment when you look around at your life and you realize that yes, you've been happy this whole time. Finally. So how did you get there? How do you stay there? More importantly, how do you bottle up this feeling and keep it forever? 

        Sound familiar? Well it should! The pursuit of happiness has been and will always be in the forefront of the majority of mankind's minds. Those who are without it yearn for it. Those who possess it hold on tightly never wanting to let go. Through all the ups and downs in life the feeling and realization that you are indeed happy cannot be understated. So the question at hand remains, what makes people happy? Is it the pursuit of one's own happiness that secures this feeling or is it best found in the service of others?

        As dearly as my younger self held the idea that my ultimate happiness would be found in the pursuit of my numerous and lofty goals for myself and my life, the more seasoned version of myself would disagree. The older me as I now am can and will easily tell you that this pursuit, while novel, is not the answer. 


                                                  The secret to finding true happiness is not found through serving one's self, it is found through serving others. 


        How can this be? I hear you, my younger self shouts it to me at times as I gaze in the mirror often pondering the opposite. Why am I so unhappy? When did this happen? My younger know-it-all self chimes in "It happened when you forgot about yourself!". Momentarily I can indulge this line of thought but ulitmately it's proven to be self destructive more than it is helpful to dwell on it too long. You see, for the majority of my adult life I've found happiness in the service of others. It's not that younger me got things all wrong. No she didn't. She just forgot to consider a few things about life. Let me explain. 

        Most adults will find in their lifetimes that the ulitmate fullfillment and nourishment to their unrelenting desire to be happy comes from being loved. So how does one argue with that? Here's the catch. The act of loving someone is not an emotion is an action. It feels nice sure. Especially in the beginning when hormones and novelty run high. But as time wears on most find that the act of being in love takes some serious acts of showing love. What does showing love look like? It looks like focusing on other people's wants, hopes, desires and needs! 

                                   Yeah, that's right. I said it! It's not all about you! Those things your younger self told you were the secret to happiness. They are! 

                                                                                                                                    Just not yours!

        Here's how it works: If you find the relationship you truly belong in it is your job to love the other person in the way you wish to be loved. No, not with the same actions, same support for the same dreams. Your partner is a human being, not a reflection of you. So this chosen support of them is indeed in all ways big to small the act of love. Now unless you find yourself  in an unhealthy relationship where this only goes one-way, you'll find that overtime this act of love will be recriporcated and in turn your outward support, care and LOVE will return to you in the ways that you need. 

        In conclusion, in a round about way my younger self was right. She was however short-sighted. All of the care I thought I deserved to pursue my happiness wasn't off course. The part I play it in was. I wasn't to be the starring role but rather the supportive one to someone else's happiness and in return I'd recieve the same. 

                     The answer to the question "Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others?" is this: 

                                                                                                                                           BOTH.


