Whether happiness comes from pursuing your own goals and dreams or from altruistic behavior, is up for debate. Just like a lot of other things in life, it comes down to a matter of perspective. For some, it might be that fulfilling their own aspirations brings them happiness. For others, focusing on other people's success might be what brings them the most happiness.

I believe that if people focus on reaching their own goals and dreams, they are more likely to achieve true happiness. This doesn't translate to selfishness. It is a concept similar to putting your own oxygen mask on before helping others. If your happiness well is empty so to speak, you might still be happy from helping others. In effect though, it would then act like a bandaid more than true happiness.

I've focused on other people's happiness for a long time. It does make me happy to see other people happy. However, it doesn't bring me core happiness. For example, I have loved horses since I was very young. I rode for many years and also worked with horses. Then, life happened and for many years (think like 20 something years) I was only able to go horseback riding once. I was trying to be happy, but at my core, I was not. Horses are part of who I am, and although it can be frustrating with horses at times, they do really light up my soul. They fill a void that nothing else can.

It was a big birthday this past year (sigh, time flies) and as an early birthday present, my husband bought me a horse. When he said we would buy a horse I thought he was joking at first. It was a whole year worth of presents, anniversary, birthday you name it. For us it was a lot of money. I don't make a lot of money so I would not have been able to afford a horse. I don't know how I'll ever be able to repay a gift like that, but I will try.

My horse is a gorgeous Off the Track Thoroughbred. He's a stunning bay with a gorgeous blaze. He's 15.3h and 14 years old. He's quite the hyper horse, but he is a thoroughbred (quite the stereotypical one at that). His great grandfather (it might be further back in the blood line), is Secretariat, and his grandad is Stormcat!

So, although I still focus on other people's happiness as well, I've found that now that I tend to focus more on my own happiness, it makes me happier.

In conclusion, people have a better chance to be happy if they focus on what works for them. For many it could be a combination of both of these things. One doesn't exclude the other.  As you can see, I also brought up an example of how other people get joy out of helping others. I know sometimes my husband regrets buying the horse (this makes me very sad) because it is expensive with upkeep etc. Overall though I know he knows how happy and grateful I am for my horse.

-- Note. I am a fast typer and usually write essays and articles at a fast pace. It doesn't appear as if I can move along with the survey until the timer runs out. I'll take some of this time to note that I couldn't give any proper references and evidence since I was not allowed to use any outside sources. Therefore I can't reference things as one should according to MLA or APA style or whatever it is that you would prefer for this survey. You don't want people to use online or offline resources, therefore you can't properly quote any reasons or evidence.

I'd also like to point out (in case there isn't a comment box at the end of this survey), that I'm actually a dual citizen (Sweden and the US).  It's been a few years now since I received my American citizenship.
There was nowhere to enter that info anywhere on your forms. As general feedback I would also like to point out that you should let people move on with the survey once they wrote your essay. If you believe you fulfilled the requirements you should be able to continue with it. One should not be punished for writing quickly.
