   Do you love to shop? Is finding a bargain or a new favorite shirt a win in your daily routine? If so then you, much like most others in modern society, are are likey judged by your peers for your purchases and habits. Touching base with how we as a people choose to live our lives can tend to be a touchy subject. Thus making it very important to look at this matter from more than just one view point. Personally, I feel like you should not be judged for your intake of materialistic possesions.


 Human beings, as a whole, have been indoctrinated for many decades to consume more and more products. Billboards, television commercials, ads in a newspaper, and social meida all  encourage these behaviors. The more new products that are offered the more we are supposed to crave these items in order to increase our social standings and self worth. People often use the phrase "Treat yourself" as a motivator for this need to consume. In turn, making you feel like you are lesser for not having these things. 

  During times of depression in our economic infrastructure, we have shown as a species to be able to live with very little in the way of materialistic goods. There are many peple who do not have the opportunity to make these "good for you" purchases due to their financial instability. 

  So, do we need these things to survive? No. Do we live happier or more fullfiled lives when we do have these options at our finger tips? In my opinion, yes. I grew up very poor. The option to make purchases that were outside of needs was very limited so when the chance came around to obtain a fun item, I always went for it, even if I went with less in other places because mentally, it made me feel more complete. 

  Overall, I think it is unfair to judge one person to the next on whether their materialistic tendancies are appropriate or not. For me, materialism is a sense of freedom, for others it might be seen as frivolous. Our consumption is a drive that is hard wired inside of us and would be very hard to undo for most personality types. My final take from this, do your best not to judge others and how thy choose to live their lives. You never know what small item, activity, or totem that they are holding onto to get through this crazy thing we call life. 




