Rivalry or Teamwork? Which style for motivation and success breeds the best results? Success is subjective, meaning it is may be based on how the individual involved gauges success. So perhaps competition and beating others is deemed as success for them? In today's world, individuals may believe that competition is the best motivator for success as seen with companies such as Coca Cola and Pepsi or even in athletic events. This can be partially due to the fact that one individual reaps the benefits of such success and thus earned it all on their own. However, that is not the case. Competition only goes so far and restricts the ability to grow for companies if they're always comparing to competitors instead of focusing on further goals. Similar to Batman and the Joker, without Batman the Joker is useless. He loses his competition and thus loses his purpose. 

In contrast to competition, cooperation is the best path to take for completing goals as it brings individuals together to work together and bring different innovative ideas to the table as well as a multitude of skills. These ideas and skills combined leads to huge achievements and constant growth for those involved. If an individual only garnered successes by comparing themselves to others, engaging in rivalries and consistently gauging their worth and success by others achievements then they will soon begin spinning their wheels and lose momentum. Couple this with the fact that a competitive environment is more narrow-minded and individuals sometimes lose sight of the bigger picture due to personal competitive goals, this can actually lead to burn out and breakdown.

This lack of momentum or burn out does not usually drag out in a cooperative environment as the constant new ideas, innovations, thoughts, etc. lead to a constantly changing and improving environment. Even if there is a temporary stall, others can pitch in to assist and push towards victories and progress. If one person could do everything needed to be done for a desired goal then teamwork would not be needed, however it is very rare that a task is a one person job. With these pieces in mind, individuals and companies achieve success more often in an cooperative environment compared to a competitive environment. 


