Images, impressions, and the media have the power to influence American people. Many factors have contributed to this influence, including advancing technologies, widespread mobile access to the internet, the introduction and proliferation of the 24-hour news cycle, and media ownership politics influencing content.

In the United States today, images and impressions have a profound effect on society. A major factor in this effect is the constant bombardment of images and information coming from social media channels and mobile forms of internet communication. Social media has allowed for all users to both access content as well as contribute content. Anyone can post anything, and with the advancement of photo and video editing software, appearances can be altered.

Further, access to the internet has evolved to mobile phones, allowing for more people to have access at all times to both view content as well as contribute content. The sheer volume of content available online and through social media through both official channels like news outlets and unofficial channels posted by individuals is impossible to quantify.  It is increasingly challenging for content consumers to filter all of the information and determine what is authentic and what is biased.

The 24-hour news cycle and media owners introducing bias into content has contributed to the profound effect of impressions on the American people. As cable television and later the internet expanded, so did the availability of 24-hour news stations.  These stations and subsequent streaming services provided access to national and global news stories 24-hours a day. Mobile technology has provided American people with access to the internet and news cycle at all times and locations through streaming services in addition to 24-hour news channels available on traditional cable television. 

Media company owners also influence content through company policies and political positions. Stories shared by different news agencies typically present different angles or slants. For example, stories shared by CNN, which typically has a liberal slant, are presented and perceived differently than Fox News, which typically presents a conservative slant to the same story. 

It should be noted that access to the internet and social media channels is not all bad. These communication channels have allowed families and friends to stay in touch from distant locations. It has also provided opportunities for groups with similar interests to share content and help each other. Access to the internet has also expanded to those who may not have been able to access prior to mobile technology evolution. In addition, the 24-hour news cycle has also allowed for citizens to remain informed, having this infrastructure in place aided in providing timely information during the COVID-19 pandemic. 

In conclusion, images, impressions, and the media have a profound effect on the American people.  Multiple factors influence this, including social media, mobile technology, the 24-hour news cycle, and media ownership political positions. Although these factors can be seen to have a negative impact on the American people, they have also provided benefits by keeping people connected and providing information sharing channels.
