Everyone loves to acquire possessions and spend money; it's a part of who we are as a society. Some may critize modern society for being materialistic, but those same people are probably materialistic. Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic for three reasons, which will be addressed in turn.

First, having a job is not just for paying bills. Although making money to pay the bills is important, as long as there is money left over after all of the bills are paid, there is nothing wrong with spending the money on possessions. People like to buy things that make them happy. Money can't buy happiness, as they say, but people are happier when they buy things that they enjoy and when they own things that they enjoy. There is no reason that a person who is working and paying all of their bills should worry about being considered materialistic. It's a criticism that is unfounded and is an old school mentality.

Second, people enjoy spending money. Most people that have some extra money after the bills are paid (or even if they are not paid) enjoy spending money on themselves or on their families. People like to spend money for a variety of reasons, but they are all valid reasons. Some people like to spend money so they can buy things they enjoy. Some others like to spend money so they can show that they have a high status in society. Still others like to spend money simply because it makes them feel good to buy something for themselves. Whatever the reason, it is not a bad thing and it should not be criticized as being materialist.

Third, in life, everyone dies. No one can bring their money with them, so spending it on things they enjoy while being alive is a great way to get the most out of life. Of course, it could be given to children or grandchildren, or even donated to charity after life, but then there is no enjoyment out of the income that someone made during their life. There is nothing wrong with someone buying the things they want in life, while they are around to enjoy it, rather than it going to someone else after their death.

Some critics will say that people should invest their money and save it for retirement or give it to their children or grandchildren once they die. Other critics will say that buying material possessions is materialistic and a waste of money. While this is the viewpoint of some people, everyone has an opinion about everything. There is absolutely nothing wrong with the critics ideas of what to do with money or someone who just wants to buy a lot of things to enjoy. Neither is wrong, but it is wrong to criticize society for being too materialistic. Everyone is free to make their own decisions about what to do with their own money. It is not for anyone else to decide.

For the reasons stated above, modern society should not be critized for being materialist. Most people buy a lot of things during their lifetime that they can enjoy and it should be celebrated, not critized.


