Regarding the question of individual happiness, necessarily one must be made happier by either focusing on personal goals or by focusing on the happiness of others. Although either focus would arguably serve to increase the happiness of the individual, it seems obvious that focusing on one's own goals would necessarily have a greater likelihood of increasing the happiness of the individual. This brief essay will outline the reasons, arguing first that the individual must focus on their own goals, expressed as meeting the minimal requirements of the first three of Maslow's hierarchy of five needs as a sine qua non of personal achievement and therefore happiness, before discussing the subversion of the dilemma to make the alternative position untenable.

Happiness must have some base requirements, which must first be met in order for an individual to have the capacity to experience happiness. While this may seem obvious, by defining some of these base requirements it will become obvious how if these requirements are not met, the individual cannot be happy. First, and most obviously, the lowest tier on Maslow's hierarchy of needs are the physiological needs. Briefly, these are the need for food, water, air, and shelter. If the individual is deprived of any of these essential needs, they cannot survive, and as happiness must be predicated on being alive, if these needs are unmet, the individual cannot be happy. Consequently, if the individual does not create a goal of fulfiling these needs, even if this goal is simply the consumption of food and water provided by others, the individual cannot be happy. Necessarily, then, the individual must have at least this level of focus on the personal goal of continuing to live, regardless of other circumstances, in order to have the possibility of experiencing happiness.

If the individual focuses on meeting their minimum physiological needs, they must then achieve at least a basic fulfillment of the next of Maslow's needs, the need for safety. Without bodily autonomy, stable access to the resources necessary to meet the individual's physiological needs, and physical health sufficient to continue to pursue all other goals, the individual will soon find themselves unable to achieve any goal, whether this is a personal goal or a focus on others. The individual must set personal goals regarding these safety needs; failure to set personal goals here can only result in disaster, in either the short or long term, and so again the primacy of self focus over focusing on others is apparent. Consider the alternative, the individual who gives away all of their money and property through charitable donations. This may intially increase the individual's happiness by an appreciable amount, but soon the individual, destitute, will be made unhappy by the conditions of their life.

The third level of Maslow's hierarchy of needs is the need for love and belonging. Here again, the individual must create a goal of seeking love and belonging. If the individual chooses not to attempt to create friendships or intimate relationships, the need for love and belonging will obviously be unmet.

It is here, then, that the second argument of this essay will prove the primacy of self-focus. In dealing with meeting the needs of love and belonging, the individual may find that focusing on the happiness of others is more likely to improve the chances of creating successful friendships and intimate relationships. So then, how does a focus on personal goals compete with the benefit of working to increase the happiness of others? It's quite simple; the individual creates a personal goal of focusing on the happiness of others. By subsuming the happiness of others as a personal goal, the individual can direct their efforts to improving the happiness of others while still focusing on their own personal goals.
