      Images and impressions most definitely have an effect on people and in my opinion, it always has. Every day we see something that shows us what we supposedly want to see, something meant to catch our eyes. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, right? If you look online on social media, you will see muliple people looking almost alike, creating what is the so-called beauty standard of today. In the media you will see what is purprotrated as what the majority of people see as what is right, even though that person portrayed is only appearing as so to appease the vast majority. In the stores you see this beautiful packaging, only to get home to realize that whats inside is nothing that you thought it would be when you decided to purchase this product. People, in my opinion, are more visual than anything else because that is one of the first things we sense to get our thinking and perceptions going.

      On social media, and even everday advertising that features people, almost every single one of them look alike. Males resemeble other males, even those that identify as male; And females resemeble other females. It's like they all had the same person do their makeup to make them all look like twins. Its also crazy to see how the before and after makeup transformations show how these makeups can make a person look completely different. I think that this drives the impression on some of the most vulnerable age groups of people who thrive to try and achieve this so-called look that is on trend right now. And when they don't look like who they saw in the advertisement, or on the one social page, that can completely break them mentally. That is depending on how that person's personality is. With basically every one trying to attempt to have these on trend looks, shows just how much of an impression these standards have on todays generations.

      Politicians, entertainers, anyone who is considered a public figure seems to have to maintain this certain image and not truly be themselves because then they will be judged. If they don't agree with a certain group of mindset, they can be cancelled in no time. It has happened to multiple people. So to maintain thier images, they have to conform. Because if they don't, they then lose everything they have worked so hard to achieve. And then there are those, who say what they think we want to hear just to have the positive image of themselves, so the can move up on selfish intentions. Image is everything because we are constantly judged, and honestly it can be hard to show your true self.

      When you shop in store, especially to try something new, you are visually affected by the containers of the product. If a product isn't visually apppealing, then someone is most likely to pass it over, unless that products reputation is remarkebly incredible. I know when I look for a new product, I am drawn in by the design of the package, espeacially if it eye catching. I don't know how many times, I fell for a package that was brillantly designed, only to get home to find that one, the content inside was way too small for that big of packaging, and two, that the product itself wasn't really that great of quality. When we want to choose between two similiar items, we are most likely going to go for the package that is the most eye catching; Even though the items taste the same or provides the same outcome. 

    In all, in my opinion, we are all drawn in to what pleases us or what we think is what we are supposed to do to fit in. There will always be periods of time when we change what we think, how we look, and what we do to conform to what is considered "in". It is like fashion, one day it is in and the next it is out. And we will do what is needed to try to fit that. Packaging on products will continue to excite us visually, if they think that is what will makes sales. Public figures will always want to please the public, even if it means not being themselves one hundred percent. And people will always follow that trend to fit in with what society says is the look right now. So, yes, images and impressions have way too much of an effect on us as people.



