Humans are so visual. Images and impressions have always been part of the human experience from the time of cave dwellers who drew images on cave walls to tell stories and communicate to present-day marketers whose compensation is directly tied to whether they communicate and tell stories well enough to move consumers to purchase. Images and impressions do have great and lasting effects on people. However images can also leave significant and enduring negative effects on viewers.
     When we conjure memories in our heads of our lived experiences, they are visual. We recall our vacation destinations in pictures and images. We visualize our wedding ceremonies as if they were yesterday in visions that include the dresses, tuxedos, cakes, and guests. One can only imagine that the images we are bombarded with in all media affect us greatly at both the conscious and unconscious levels. Do visual impressions of restaurants, stores, experiences, video games, and news permeate our dreams? Probably. Do those lasting images affect our overall stress levels and satisfaction with our lives? Probably. Do those images and impressesions disproportionately affect growing brains of our youth? Definitely. Images and impressions can have too much of an effect on people.
     It is incumbent upon all of us to consider the images and impressions that we imprint on our brains and the not yet formed brains of young people in our culture. Parents can adjust exposure to the nature of images and duration of images at home while school staff are able to do the same to some degree. Rich, interactive experiences can imprint positive images and lasting impressions while we protect growing brains and our own minds from the negative impressions that exist.
     Some naysayers will argue that images and impressions do not affect people and that each of us enjoys the power of critical thought and agency. Those arguments are true, but images are so incredibly powerful in our brains. Our minds replay them. We see them so vividly as if on endless loop at times. The play loop can definitely affect our agency as we are swayed by the emotions we feel about the images we see and experience. Critical thought can be ignored or set aside because of the raw power of images in positive and negative ways. Images and impressions can also become distorted over time and morph into something only related to what we actually saw and not the raw image itself.
     Other people claim that images do not have too much of an effect on people and cannot be controlled or should not be censored. In fact, we are able to control the flow of images by various factors including age-appropriateness, language and culture fit, violence and content rating systems, age restrictions on ticket sales, and family culture. It is inauthentic to say that we don't control images and impressions already and that more cannot be done to limit negative effects on people. 
     Across cultures, images and impressions have deep and lasting effects on people in both positive and negative ways. Memories can be extremely vivid and overwhelming to the point of evoking positive emotion or shocking levels of trauma. From the killing fields of Afghanistan or the Rwandan genocide to amazing feats of Olympic athletes, images and impressions are part of the human experience, but they can have too much of an effect on people with negative repercussions. 
     
     
     
