(Note: I accidently alt-tabbed once and I sincerely apologize, this is not plagiarised) 

Modern time is filled with illusions and distortions of reality. Throughout our daily lives it is evident that the truth is cleverly hidden like a mask to guide someone along an agenda. The impressions and images that are manipulated in society have a great negative effect on individual lives as they can cause self identity confusion of expectations, a lessen sense of self, and a superficial ego.

Social media is an everyday tool that has greatly intergrated into the modern day society and culture. It is almost expected of you to use these tools reguarly if you want to "fit in". The manipulated, crafted and often times fake posts, rather selfies, news or advertisements greatly influence the audience that sees them. This form of media can lead an individual to believe their life needs to change to be apart of what they see as right, although it may not be realistic. As a result, an individual's expectations of indentity becomes distorted. 

Sense of self is a key to success in life, and loving yourself. The ability to determine what you are, the good qualities and the bad is important. The effects that images and impressions have through societal influences can greatly effect the way an individual sees themselves inside. This change of self can change a whole lifetime path as choices are made based on how an individual percieves themselves.

Lastly, the dreaded ego inflation or deflation through the manipulate of images and impressions. The belief that you are better than others, or lesser. The ego is a part of what drives us psychologically and can be influenced by the images of others and what is percieved to be right or wrong. Becoming misguided through impressions can make an indivdual's ego become superficial and act as though they are something they are not. 

In conclusion, the negative impact of images and impressions is unmeasurable. It is certain that they can have an effect on an individual's life and society as a whole. Through social media and a manipulated society of misguided images and impressions; self identity becomes confusing, the sense of self can become lost and the ego hard to manage. 



