I believe that the majority of our happiness comes from helping those around us achieve and maintain happiness.  Happiness cannot be found in the pursuit of material gain.  True happiness cannot be found even in the acheivement of your own goals.  If those around you, the people that you love and care for, have not found their own happiness, it' doesn't make sense that you can find true happiness alone.  
There was a time, when I was young, that I lived for myself.  I lived for finding my own pleasure and following only my own pursuits.  But that time is long past.  I have children and a family now.  Before that, I didn't know what true happiness was.  I know now that it's not the same kind of happiness in achieving something on your own.  It's a fleeting and hollow happiness. It's a happiness that is felt in the moment and soon forgotten.  However, when you help those around you achieve their goals or chase their dreams, it's something that you can hold onto.  It's a happiness that you can experience every time you see that person and a memory that can be enjoyed together, not alone.  And it's a happiness that is reciprocated.  They in turn, can share their happiness with you and the feeling is amplified all the more in the celebration of two people together.
A person can, perhaps, find some fleeting happiness in concentrating on achieving their own dreams and goals, but I feel that it will never leave that person with the same value that helping others gives us.  It feels good achieving your own hopes and dreams, and one should never concentrate completely on others with no concern for their own well being.  But true happiness enjoys company.  True happiness is found in the happiness of yourself AND those around you.  I don't feel that a human being can truly be happy when those around them are suffering.  Human nature is empathetic and much like misery loves company, happiness does as well. 
In conclusion, a person can find some form of happiness in focusing only on themselves, but it's not a complete happiness.  It's a more hollow happiness and what that can easily be crushed.  Happiness is much stronger and more meaningful when experienced as a group, therefore, it is important to focus more effort into helping those around us to achieve happiness than it is for us to exert all of our energy into soley our own pursuits. 
