If the adage is true and money cannot buy happiness, then how exactly can happiness be acquired? It is a question that has plagued humanity since the dawn of time. What does a person need to do to find true happiness?

Happiness is home-grown and, as such, it is necessary for an individual to focus on their own personal goals. The importance of love, care, and respect for one's self cannot be understated. Time should be dedicated to reflect upon an individual's ultimate aspirations and these internal desires should create a mold that shapes their daily actions and behaviors. Note that it is also important to wisely chose one's goals, setting attainable thresholds and continuously checking-in to hold oneself accountable. There should be a buffer of wiggle room to give oneself grace and be flexibile with the pace with which one strives towards that finish line. 

Some people argue that happiness can only be achieved by focusing on the happiness of others, and to focus only on one's self is to wear egotistical blinders of selfishness. The guidelines of an aircraft emergency highlight why such thinking can be flawed. When oxygen masks drop down from the overhead of the plane, it is emphasized that individuals must put their own mask on first before attending to the masks of those around them. Why? A person needs their own oxygen in order to be stable enough to address the needs of their fellow passengers. A similar analogy can be made for a breastfeeding mother, as the mother must ensure that she is fully nourished so that her body can make the milk for her child to eat. A mother who neglects her own nutrition will physically not be able to produce the milk for her baby. This is also the way of happiness. A peson needs to be happy themselves in order to be able to make an impact on the happiness of those around them.

In conclusion, happiness is a measure of how well you live up to your own goals and expectations. If your goals involve the bettering of humanity or the happiness of others, then the two sides of the argument do not have to be mutually exclusive. At the end of the day, it comes down to how well someone walks in the shoes they have selected for their life journey. 
