While many often criticize large american materialism, the desire to acquire personal things brings a great deal of joy to a lot of indivuals within our society. Being able to have the newest gadget can be a fun and eventful way for individuals to express themselves and stay connected to society. In addition, while those with great wealth view simple possessions as minor and may desire to collect experiences instead, for those with meger incomes and small savings, having a nice new product or even access to the latest tv shows, movies, or sufficient food can bring about a great deal of happiness.

It is certainly true that the American economy is overly focused on buying new products. In fact, our items are so often designed to fail in a few years instead of creating strong long-lasting technology in order to continue turning profits and encouraging people to spend. This can lead to a great deal of issues, it depeletes natural resources and leads to increased trash in landfills causing polution. This does cause a lot of harm. Our environment is failing and we are causing a lot of damage to the planet. The ideal materialist society would be one where individuals are able to consume what they want without having to dispose of the product in a few years when it fails. We need a system where individuals are able to purchase long-lasting items that can survive for decades and even be passed down generations, with access to repair services to upkeep the product so that it does not fall into disrepair or end up breaking.

However, individuals deserve to have simple pleasures in life. Ones life cannot be solely dedicated to work without the ability to obtain things that bring happiness to them. While the richest are able to afford extraordinary experiences instead of items and then judge those who choose items instead, many individuals gain pleasure out of picking out a new treat to use or the newest electronic item every so often. These individuals deserve to have the opportunity to consume what they would like without fear of judgment.

When someone is enjoying their spending and gaining important pleasure out of it, there is no reason as a society to judge them. Forcing individuals to take a minimalist approach to life in order to curb materialism could lead to increased levels of depression in society causing greater issues in the future.

The bottom line in america is that many individuals spend their lives toiling away at work without bringing in a great deal of income. To criticize and deny them the things outside of work that bring them pleasure would be cruel. In addition, without materialism there would be a decrease in jobs available in society which would cause far worse problems leaving individuals homeless on the streets without access to an income. 

Overall, while materialism certainly has its faults, and it would be smart to design products with a longer lifestyle in mind, the buy and sell economy does have some important qualitites that that improve the lives of so many americans. There is no reason to disrupt the countrys economic system and throw things out of wack, possibly leading to individuals losing their jobs, incomes, and homes. This would arguably make society worse, causing depression to run rampant and creating a horrible place to live. It is better to let people enjoy the pleasures in life that they find, even if that does include purchasing items and consuming a great deal of products.

Despite this conclusion, I do think our materialistic society needs to be looked at through an environmental lense and incur some changes. We definitely need to revamp how we produce and consume, while still keeping the general system of production and consumption in place. There are ways to change the system that can better fit out changing climate and environmental strains while still keeping the parts that benefit individuals in society. There are ways to create environmentally friendly products that individuals are excited and eager to consume and that can have the same beneficial emotional and psychological impact as consuming any of todays products.
