We are discusing if todays society should be criticized for being materialistic. So many discussions have focused on this wheather on the news, televisions shows, or in the backyard during a bbq. I do believe that we should be critical of how modern society is materialistic. What happened to being happy with the bike that was passed down from sibling to sibling and neighbor to neighbor. Now everyone needs a new bike, it begins young with our children. Children begin to ask for phones at age four and just keep going fromt there. When somone buys a home, they want it to be bigger, more modern, etc. Do these things make a society materialistic? When does it end? Is loss of like when we call it? How many people died at the entrance of black Friday and stores still have those sales? 

Not withstanding the inequality of other humans, years ago society lived without as much material items. People were satisfied with spending time in the backyard, working on tasks around their homes and making what they had better by adjusting it or making it better with what they had. Today people are focused on how quickly they can get in line on black Friday. They spend days outside the Apple store in order to get that new phone that in a few weeks will be considered old and outdated. There was a time when Sundays the stores were closed, the stores would also close on holidays. People assumed you had family or somehwere to go for those festive days. Now, the stores will hardly close, they add hours when it comes to the holiday season. Today's society begins young with teaching their children that everything must be new, nothing can be fixed. Also, I have noticed that this younger generation does not take care of the things they have. For instance, I have known several children who have been given electronics such as cell phones and tablets only to break them. Instead of having to do without them they are immediately given a new one to replace the one they broke. Their ability to dispose of things that do not go back into the earth easily or recycled easily comes very easy. There was a time when generations of people would keep their belongings and fix them as they got older. Couches and chairs would be reahapolstered. Tables would be cut down to fit a family with kids moving our or made larger b added sides for those families that were growing.  

There are those that would ague against my position. They would say that today's society are the ones that brought out the mini houses and self sustaining products. They are correct that part of modern society is attempting to bring those things into society. I would argue that glass bottles, and small homes were once part of everyday living. People would argue that they are getting "back to the basics" by having technology track their daily consumption of food, television, and social media time. These people would argue that using your own bag at the grocery store would mean they were better at not being materialistic. But on their way out to their car with the bags they would have new clothes that were not needed, all new phones less than two years old.  

Although I do see that there is a social trend to being more sustainable and reconnected to family time, I do believe that it is because of a fad, not becase of wanting less. I believe that people still want those large houses with outside grills and pools. They are not all that interested in going to the lake or rivers to spend time with their families. I do believe that modern society may be concerned about the environment but they continue to add to their posessions. They continue to buy items that are not needed and are more conected to fads.  Their tiny homes and small appliances cost more than just downsizing regularly. The small house they have has very costly items to ensure they do not have too suffer too much time being too uncomfortable.
