Materialism and capitalism have, of late, been the subject of a lot of criticism from certain social and political agendas. What began as a legitimate concern has quickly morphed into a debate where everyone needs to choose capitalism or communism. The implication is that wealthy people are undeserving of their wealth and that people who spend money that they earned to obtain things they want should not do so simply because not everyone can afford what they want.

In order to truly evaluate the issue of overconsumption, we need to return to the center and address it from there. The reality is that danger in any situation almost always comes from the extremes. It is not the desire to purchase or own nice things that is the problem. It is that some are completely unable to afford their needs and others spend so much on their wants that they cannot pay their bills or wind up deeply in debt. If we are to combat the tendency to be overly materialistic, we do not need to forbid people from going after what they want. That only, as we know from dealing with children, makes the forbidden more desirable. We need to find better ways to shift the focus and encourage balance. We need to change, as a society, who we praise and what we value.

Capitalism is not the enemy, and neither are the wealthy. The enemy is apathy. The enemy is blame of others. The enemy is failure to control that which we can and being crippled by that which we cannot. We may not be able to go from broke to millionaire in a sweeping step, but we can control what television shows and books we are taking in. We can control whether we are working to learn new skills. We can control whether we bring a positive attitude with us when we go to work or look for employment.

I've noticed that this anti-materialism rhetoric is sounding more and more like sour grapes from people who want things they cannot currently afford and, as a result, do not want anyone else to have those things. Those who truly divorce themselves from materialism for personal, righteous reasons seem to be less inclined to tell others why they are in the wrong and more inclined to just explain the choice they've made to live with less. The others would have more if they could afford more. They are just as materialistic. They just blame others for not having the means to get what they want, and it seems easier to scream than to change their situation.

It is not possible to just cancel out materialism. What those who are screaming about it must realize is that, like it or not, millions of jobs are represented by those material possessions. The "stuff" may not be completely necessary in life, but the purchase of it is paying someone's bills. The yacht that you blame a rich guy for spending money on? It was built by people. The carpets and the engine and the paint on the walls represent jobs. Someone was able to feed his family because that yacht has a bathroom in it that needed to be constructed. 
