There's no such thing as having too much right? 
Especially when today we are raised to enjoy the pleasures of possessing what we enjoy. 
But with how the world is becoming overpopulated and recycling still not being taken as seriously to make up with the numerous growing fulfillments, perhaps there is having too much.

While we were progressed to this reality of buying and spending with an approved currency, it is scornful to see how much we spend to waste. 
So many things such as furniture and apparel and many other necessities, it takes alot and impacts harshly over the environment.
While they are essential, it is wise to know the limitations on how materialistic we became and from that, we still wish to acquire more where the 'out with the old and in with the new' takes to a different meaning, as such the old is thrown away with not much use for recycling and likely threatening the local area and soon pile to become an overall societal and environmental added headache.

Yes acquiring and buying what we like to reward ourselves or gift to others is an indefinite and glorious sensation, it is wise to understand that such a feeling can be quite fleeting when pressed onto materials, while there are other ways to uphold such wonders with minimal spending.
After all, wouldn't it be nice to know one can enjoy themselves with others with minimal need for materialistic gains?
Sure the restaurants and theaters and game arcades can count to be materialistic, it is for the overall public to enjoy and not just the picky few.
And while many can profit and glorify on it, so can the economy with shifting on how valuable the currency becomes (inflation).
This is about having too much on things, meaning, there is nothing wrong to be materialistic.
Simply behave accordingly to not potentially push the limit of such greed.

Modern society can be criticized for being materialistic but only to the degree where it can be proved that it over expended in materialistic gains. 
Because with no limit on ourselves, it can quickly limit to the rest - that at some point may not be available for most of us; such horrors are best staying as nightmares and nothing true.
