Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic because it is a natural way of human nature.  Human nature is all about pursuing greatness.  Greatness is achieved by achieving your goals in life.  Some people may have different goals in life but it all comes down to being able to survive.  What I mean by this is that we need to be able to work a job in life to support ourselves, our families, and our needs and wants in life.  Nothing in life is free and we all have to work hard and overcome many obstacles in our life.

Being able to work to make money to support ourselves as well as our families is our will to survive.  Depending on our choices that we make in life, depends on the success of finding a well paying job to not only support our needs but most importantly our wants.  The salary or the money that we bring in as income will allow us to purchase our basic necessities as well as if we have enough for extra items that we may not need but want.  Society over the years has taught us that the more luxurious items that we acquire, this must equal success.  This is why modern society should not criticize those for being materialistic.  Those that do criticize must be criticizing due to jealousy or envy.

Being materialistic just means that we enjoy having nice things in life that make us happy or makes our life easier.  For example, having a cappucino maker means that we don't have to walk or drive to Starbucks in the morning to get a great cup of coffee.  Another example is, buying a new BMW makes our drive to work in the morning much more luxurious and enjoyable due to the benefits it offers than a Ford Focus.  People in society follow the laws of human nature and always want to do better in life and succeed which leads to the purchasing and buying of items that we don't necessarily need but want to satisfy a personal enjoyment.  If modern society wants to criticize for being materialistic, then they need to change their thinking and belief that more materialistic items equals success.

Materialism can also be blamed on technology and advertising.  Coming out with the newest item that has technological advancements creates a want in society.  For example the newest Iphone or Samsung that upgrades the old phones with new technology every year with long lasting battery or an improved picture quality due to camera upgrades.  Advertising creates the want to society by advertising it's newest upgrades and eye-catching visuals or phrases.  Advertisements play a role due to they are on social media, t.v., radio, sponsorship on items that celebrities or athletes wear or endorse.  We need technological advancements to create a better and improved society in America and to also be successful in continuing to be the role model of a great society.  We also need to be better than our competitors in the World.  This is why materialism cannot be criticized by modern society.  It's like blaming us for being successful.  This is why I agree that whoever makes a statement that Modern Society should be criticized for being materialistic is because they are jealous or envious because they are not as successfull or have not reached that level of success.
