Cooperation, not competition, often produces the best outcomes in society at both the macro and micro levels. While many people think of competition as making each other better, the reality is that it results in far more destruction than building each other up and improving them. Competition puts people through the metaphorical meat grinder, often not allowing them to realize their true potential and, in some cases, crumble under the pressure they face. Meanwhile, cooperation is not ambigious in nature or in design. It is the process in which people build each other up in a variety of manners, such as asking and answering questions or lending positive words of support or positive feedback when someone does something well.

Cooperation, not competition, is actually the basis of what is thought of as the most competitive thing: sports. Most sports are teams sports, whether it be basketball, football, baseball, hockey, or something else. These sports have teams face each other, yes, but they also are just that: teams. These teams work together on and off the field or court to make each other better. They spend countless hours helping each other shoot the basketball, giving each other tips, running plays, or even just giving positive words of encouragement. During my time playing basketball, this is what I experienced; a helpful atmosphere where a group of teammates and coaches supported my growth on and off the court. When I had issues shooting the ball, my team still trusted me and we cooperated with each other to have a successful championship run. Had we had been internally competitive, I wouldn't have gotten to play and the toxic effects may have stopped our championship run. Kindness, not anger, solves so much in this world.

On a daily basis in work, I must work together with my coworkers and supervisors in a team-based setting. I'm sure some people approach working with their coworkers as competition to get ahead and get a promotion or raise, but that competitive attitude produces an environment where nobody is actually happy at work. If I have a question at work, my coworkers are more than happy to answer or assist in some manner, and the same is true if they may have some sort of question for me or need me to help out. At the end of the day, we all work from the same group of items and they have to be done in a timely manner. Rather than sticking to what's just assigned to us, we help out with each others' items when needed. This degree of cooperation has produced in the highest level of success and has actually resulted in bonuses on a monthly level for the whole team, not just one individual. The success of the team and the company is how we succeed, so to just lookout for oneself is to be foolish.

Cooperation has produced the highest level of success in my life, whether it be recreationally or professionally. Competitive environments at work have torn me down and discouraged me, resulting in me leaving. I'm happy to say I have found the perfect approach in my work and that's through cooperation. Ultimately, we're all in it together on this planet, whether some people like it or not, so it's best we cooperate at every level to ensure the best outcomes possible. We're in this together, so let's cooperate and make the absolute most of it to lift each other up and give each other long-lasting accomplishments we can be proud of. 
