Is it best to compete against or align with your rivals?  Competition exists in all aspects of life and is bread into many families. Like competition, the opportunity to cooperate with others arises several times per day. Different situations will call for varying degress of both but which of these two skills are more important for lifelong success? In my personal opinion, I find much value in learning to work with others to complete a task. However, life calls for competition on a frequent basis and if you want to achieve a goal you will need to learn to thrive under the stress of competition.

At a very young age children learn how to compete for what they want. Whether it be sibling rivalry, sports competitions or trying to get the best exam grade. So like it or not the ability to compete and win holds a high value in most cultures. This carries over from childhood right into adulthood. You will need to compete for jobs, promotions, raises and you will encounter many others who are cut throat when it comes to getting what they want and to rise to the top or their relative professional. Individuals who are not competitive and are more passive might miss out on some of these opportunites. Lessons learned from competition don't just come from winning either. Competing and losing can teach valuable lessons about hardwork, focus and resilience. 

With all of this being said there are times in life where you will be unable to accomplish something by yourself. Therefore, the ability to cooperate with others and work as a team will need to be an acquired. Many professional positions call for a great deal of teamwork to reach an objective. Further, the lasting relationships developed through cooperating with others may lead to great opportunites later in left and more importantly the potential for friendships.

In conclusion, there is a time and a place for both competiting and cooperating with others.  Both are skills that must be developed for a successful personal and professional life. While it is a matter of opinion I feel like a strong competitive nature will ultimately be more important for long lasting success than having the ability to cooperate. 
