People have always historically frowned on the word and the idea of "materialism" but in reality is it bad or is it what makes our economy work and does it help people enjoy and move forward in life.  For me, I say that materialism is not only good but needed in a society.  From the dawn of time the caveman who acquired the best club, the best cave, the most hides... was revered by his clan.  He also was able to survive better, eat more, produce offspring and pass on his genes to a new generation.  In this regard is materialism really just a form of "survival of the fittess" that has quided evolution forever?  

I know we are no longer in the caves.  People have reached a level of intelligence that makes the bare essentials available to the masses.  But not all the "masses".  Ask the poorest with the fewest things and most would say, yes, I would like to have that, and that and that..  Does that make them "materialist" or just a person wanting a better life.  I say, better life.  

I think when we think "materialistic" we often think below the basics and think of all the things we have in society that are not "needed" but "wanted".  Have we reached a point where the wants are so large they overcome us, drive us and cause us to be slaves to our possessions instead of worthwhile humans?  Just as in any aspect of life moderation is the key.  There are those that love pillows and have 10 pillows but are those that really love pillows and have 100 pillows.  Do they need 100 pillows, probably not.  Do 100 pillows make the happy?, maybe.  Do they give to charity, love their families, worship God and if the answer is yes then why not a 100 pillows?  

Face it,  in America materialism drives our economy.  Someone made and sold those 100 pillows and that is how we work.  We survive on the market place and by gosh it the "materialist" people who keep that market going.  They make our economy merry-go-round work.  For them I say, good job!

There are those who disregard material possessions, live off the land and own just a backpack of items.  I support their decisions and way of life and sometime wonder why they are different from me (yes I have 50 shoes and 10 white tee shirts).  Are they better people then me or just different.  Can I use less and can they use more and we still be great humans, yes I say.  Does everyone have to follow a certain set of standards.  Is there a finite number of items we should all have?  If we are working to "keep up with the Jones" then do the Jones have too much too?  Are we in a consumer get all rat race.  I cannot speak for everyone but if your things cause you stress then maybe yes you personally have an issue but that does not make "materialism" bad for everyone.  Just like an addiction, wine if great for most but for an alcoholic is is bad.  Again moderation is a key.  

To sum is up, don't look down on the "materialistic" people.  Look further at them and see who they really are.  Yes they may be"materialistic" but really great people overall and vise versa.  We choose labels and try to make them negative.  Let's get rid of labels and be people who love others and yes, maybe even people who love "things" like my great Wavecrest glass collection!!   Let's quit trying to find fault with others and find things we love about them.  People are not their "things" , they are people.  Let's all look at that first.  
