Images and impressions and how people and consumers interpret them certainly have varying effects upon people.  There are varying degrees of how people interpret advertising photographs and graphics, the physical appearance and placement of public figures, and how people take this in via their psyche, and then make make values and judgments about these depictions.  It is unclear if scholarly, empirical studies have occurred regarding this phenomenon, but I would guess that some have occurred.  With the use of empirical research and data/statistical gathering methods, a more accurate picture could be generalized about whether or not images and impressions have too much of an effect upon people or not.

Overall, based upon personal opinion, I would say that said images and impressions and the degree of effects vary by age.  Young children often take interest in colorful packaging of food products that are directed toward children at grocery stores, such as breakfast cereals with colorful packaging, comical figures, and the occasional inclusion of a plastic toy prize inside the box.  It is my opinion that older, more mature people are less affected by sensationalist or vivid graphics and images, and also are not as psychically affected by how public figures are portrayed in mass media.  

The notion of "what we think we see" is interesting, because this aligns with perception, induction and deduction, vis-a-vis and along with the internalization of various values and beliefs.  For example, when A-list Hollywood actors are portrayed on television in cameos, appearances, interviews, etc., they are typically dressed very well, have whitened teeth, carefully sculpted and groomed hair, and also typically have a makeup artist apply makeup products to their face.  This is performed to portray celebrities in the best light possible.  However, this has nothing to do with how the person actually is in real life, or how they are doing in their life at that present time.

There is also the issue of product placement in retail venues.  When specialty products, such as a new product, or a luxury product, is placed in a prominent area of a retail store, and that product has sensationalized graphics or images on it, consumers may be affected in a manner that entices them to then purchase the product.

Conversely, some people may disagree with the notion that age and maturity correlates with increased or decreased perceptions of image and impressions and the levels of effects said impressions have upon people.  It is theoretically possible that marketers and advertising companies believe strongly in the messages they send out in advertising and product packaging design, and likewise, public relations agents for public figures may feel that they do a decent job in portraying their clients in the most favorable manner possible.  It is possible that said specialists in advertising, marketing, and public relations may feel that they know best, and that consumers may be easy to mislead using such tactics.  Regarding product placement, I am aware of some studies that correlate placement of products in prominent locations in retail stores with increased sales of that product.  However, it is also possible that some consumers may eschew said products based upon the product placement itself, whereby they intentionally don't purchase the product because they are aware of product placement, and would prefer to compare between other brands of the same product in a store aisle.

People have very differing values and beliefs, which obfuscates the matter more.  For example, a sports fan may respond very favorably to a sports star's portrayal on a television program, or on packaging, such as a cereal box.  Conversely, those that are not sports fans may not have such a positive response.  Often, such decisions are subjective in nature, which can further obfuscate matters.  Regarding packaging, the same notions could be in play, where some consumers ignore or downplay the actual graphics and images on the packaging and focus upon the actual contents of the product.

Ultimately, without solid, empirical research regarding the notion of whether or not people are overly affected by images and impressions, there is no precise way of knowing for sure.  Said research would need to occur over a diverse range of age groups and geographic locations, and would require having an appropriate sample size, to avoid overgeneralizations.  It is safe to say that it is quite likely that some people are overly affected by packaging imagery and graphics as well as how public figures are portrayed in a positive light, and it is also safe to say that other likely see through such charades and judge for themselves based upon other factors, be it subjective or objective factors.  Ultimately, this would be an interesting university study that could shed additional light on how people perceive, interpret and then judge these types of matters.


