  I think people tend to be truly happy when they finally attain their personal goals just as long as those personal goals also affect everyone they love for the better as well.  One can have personal goals that will only affect themselves but if those goals don't affect anyone else for the better then that can make someone happy but it won't be as fulfilling.  Seeing someone else smile due to the hard work you've put in for yourself thus making them happy as well is the ultimate goal that I think people look for.   
  As you grow older, you begin to understand that being selfish is a great personality to have but only at certain times during your life.  You get accustomed to feeling self gratification through the goals you accomplish and that feels great but eventually I believe people grow numb from all those accomplishments.  They realize that it's just another notch on their belt and push it aside only to go on to the next goal.  Some people can become genuinely happy with this type of lifestyle but in my experience; the truly happy individuals are those who have surpassed this "selfish" lifestyle and begin to search for accomplishments that will better themselves while making everyone else happy.  
  As we've seen with celebrities; some have completely "lost it" and you eventually hear it from them that they were never happy.  They had all the money in the world but they were never happy.  Only after "finding themselves" do they proclaim to finally be happy.  It is after they start searching for how they can make the world a better place that they started feeling true happiness.  Though we're not all celebrities; I believe that the concept remains the same.  Feeling that type of happiness where it spreads out amongst everyone else aside from just ourselves is a type of happiness that feels a million times better than individual happiness.  
  As the saying goes "love makes the world go round" can truly resonate when trying to figure out why certain individuals are happy and why others arent.  You just ask them; what have you done to make someone else happy?  

