Some have said that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. I would have to agree for several reasons. Although this is much broader in scope, I will address the ways that appearances affect people in three different categories: personal appearance, product appearance, and celebrity appearance. Each of these categories are examples of how our society has been built around image, often to a negative effect.
First, personal appearance in one area in which images and impressions affect people. Many women almost never leave the house without makeup, and society as a whole encourages this. In the professional workplace, in the media, on social media, a full face of makeup is the norm. It is also known through many scientific studies that people are more likely to get hired if they fit the society's definition of beauty. Though we may not want to judge others on appearance, many studies have shown that we do.
Second, product appearance has a strong affect on people. Marketing works. We are sold a pretty packaging and accept it over the less flashy alternative. A logo and colorful box, or a mascot can increase sales for companies. For instance, advertisements for breakfast cereals often use colorful cartoon mascots to sell to children, who consequently ask their parents to buy the cereal, whether or not they like what is inside the box. 
Finally, celebrity appearance has an impression on the rest of society. While celebrities have professional makeup artists and stylists, as well as photoshopping and other special effects on screen, their perfect appearances make us believe that this is the norm. Teens, after seeing popular media that has been photoshopped, are more likely to report low self-esteem. Not only this, but so do adults. Celebrities have begun doing makeup-free social media outreach to address this issue and show that we are all in the same boat. However, these appearances are few and far between compared to the unrealistic images we see many times daily.
While some would suggest that these are not serious issues and that we are all responsible for our own mindsets and gullibility, these images do have an effect subconsciously whether we want them to or not. Yes, we can go out makeup-free and start changing the culture. We can buy what we like based on our own values, and give out to the world that way, too. However, we must protect the vulnerable, for instance children and teens, from the negative effects mentioned above. We can start by acknowledging that in fact this is a serious problem, and that we can all do something to change it. We can do our best to support others and show that there is beauty outside of appearance, and that outward beauty comes in different forms. We can fight against marketing that is dishonest or lacks integrity. We can start to make the changes that we'd like to see, to bring appearances to match reality. 
