     There is a saying that "a picture is worth a thousand words", and another that says "seeing is believing".  Our society, our world, as a whole has become smaller and more connected with the increased usage of technology and social media. With that increased usage, has come in influx of images and impressions from all fronts of the world.  Before, people had mostly words to depict a story.  They were dependent upon those words to see the story.  Now, we are inundated with images, and I believe that people are quick to assume rather than read and come to their own opinion.  An opinion that is less and less often based off of fact.
      The more that you see it, it has to be true right?  Especially, when you see your favorite star, politician, or people you admire endorsing it.  However, we are in the age of paid endorsements and analytics that push more and more content and rhetoric at us than ever before.  The actor we see in the magazine ad, or the politician standing in front of a group of demonstrators can be powerful images.  However, they're often nothing more than an illusion.  The actor is being paid, but now people are flocking to order that new car/kitchen gadget/pillow.  The politician?  A little positive PR goes along ways, and that visual image will gain supporters whether that message is one that they actually support or not.  The visual is often all that it takes. 
     Perspective is another thing to consider when talking about the impact of images and impressions.  Individual perspective is something that is also skewed and or impacted by what we see.  If we see more, enough of something, then it must be true.  Right?  Less and less people are seeking out the whole story, just relying on what they see.   Because, seeing is believing, right?
     As time goes on, I think images will become more and more of a tool used to influence people - an example of this are influencers.  Corporations are able to cut advertising overhead by using people to push thier products.  Gone are the days of door to door salesman, replaced by images of people we know sharing thier products, ideas, and beliefs....everywhere that we look.  After all, a picture might be worth a thousand words, but when it's of something or one that we identify with, those words are multiplied ten-fold. This is how one persons fairy tale becomes another persons reality.

