In modern day society images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.  In our very fast paced life style many of us have grown accustom to making judgements about people and things within a few seconds. We try to form an opion with just and snap shot image or just the first few seconds of meeting someone. There are many reasons why images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.

First of all, this generation has grown up with social media and hand held devices practically since coming out of the womb.  The culture is fast paced and build on imediate gratification.  Kids these days are now comparing them selves to others at a very early age thanks to instragram, facebook, and other social media platforms.  Images and branding and burned into their memories from a very early age.  These images can leave lasting impressions on our youth.

Second of all, our news agencies are responsible for plastering images repeatedly in the news.  We see images of wars, death, and injuries regulary.  All this negative imagery can leave lasting impressions on people especially our youth who are so modable.  Repeatedly seeing these high shock value images has a lasting effect on people.  Some people have PTSD from seeing shocking horrific things over and over.  Image if you had PTSD from a war oversees and you are bombarded by the media airing pictures and videos of a war.

Additionaly, advertising is built on us forming quick impressions and this is most often accomplished through imagery.  Advertisers know they only have a matter of seconds to catch and keep our attention while trying to deliver a message and influence our decision making.  It is no surprise that they have mastered the art of making a great first impression.  There are billions of dollars at stake both in adverising money and potential profit from capturing customers through advertising.  

Finally, the majority of us all judge people based off of our first interaction and impressions of them.  Whether we are looking at their physical appearance (are they attractive, dressed well, or are they a slob and unatractive) or we are forming an impression of them based of their wittyness or ability to hold a conversation or their intelligence.  We all do this either conciously or subconsiously.  These first impressions offten have too much of an effect on us.  Someone coudl have been having an off day and that impression that you formed in 5 seconds could be further from the truth.  Or that con artist who made a really good first impression on you starts to do questionable things but based of your first impression you still think he's honest and intelligent.

As you can see images and impressions can really effect the lives of people.  Anything from traumatic child hood memories resulting in PTSD to a positive feeling that we get when looking a image.  Whether they are positive or negative images and impressions effect us all.   What will you do to limit the effect of images and impressions on yourself?

