Thomas Jefferson included in the Declaration of Independence the phrase "and the pursuit of happiness" as one of the American ideals to follow by all United States citizens.  Some scholars believe that when considering the context and the era, this "pursuit of happiness" would actually include ownership of property including slavery.  This would be an example of both personal goals and happiness of others because a US citizen is encouraged to pursue owning property and at the same time owning human beings in order to serve a citizen's family - and their business should they have one.  Considering happiness, a person should considering themselves satisfied when they reach their goals because the work given towards the goal should bring a feeling of accomplishment.

People are more likely to find happiness when they follow their own personal goals.  The level of gratitude a person will feel towards their happiness should go in hand with how much one works for and strives towards accomplish their own goals.  If one works hard to towards their goals, the end results of accomplishing the goal will be high.

On the contrary, some would argue that striving towards self-happiness deals in the realm of "selfishness".  In general, one can argue that being selfish - or thinking of yourself - is a negative aspect a person can pursue.  In order to counter such an action, the moral thing to do is to consider the happiness of others.  It has been ethically argued that the good of many outweighs the good of just one.  Self-sacrifice is then considered to be the ethical aspect to pursue in life.  Nevertheless, it could be considered morally wrong to neglect the self which is considered even more important in cultures and religious aspects.

In the 2005 film "Memoirs of a Geisha", the narrator concludes that a person who has found their prayers have been answered should consider that happiness.  One can argue that religion is a way of pursuing and actively striving towards one's personal goals, therefore in the end a person will find themselves satisfied with the outcome and be in a state of happiness.  Religion is another way of following through with moral behavior.  When you follow a moral behavior you are indirectly working towards the satisfaction of others, but the primary point to consider is that one is working towards self-satisfaction.  Happiness is found in accomplishments, with the ultimate accomplishment is reaching a greater goal.  When a person accomplishes many personal goals happiness level will increase.
