Being materialistic is frowned upon by many people. Why should one have so many posessions when there are some without so few or none at all? It's hard to say, but why work so hard to not being able to enjoy it the way you wish. People definitely should not be criticized for acquiring more if they are well within their means to do so.

I am just a mere housewife. My husband makes around 60,000 dollars a year and we have three children, one who will will be graduating high school this year. We own no property and lease our vehicles, and we only don't buy luxury items because we can not afford them. I DO have a large collection of converse sneakers and he puts a hefty amount of money into gaming which is something he is passionate about. Should we feel bad because some people have no shoes or games? Maybe, but how many we have is up to us. There is nothing wrong with that.

Some people own several cars. If I could, I definitely would. I would like to have a car that my kids don't ride in. I would also like a car for traveling, and one that me and my husband use for date night. You can only drive one at a time, but if you can afford options that is your own business. People with more money usually buy bigger houses, more cars, expensive clothing, more property and businesses.  It has been this way for centuries. And why not?

But now, basically, the American way has turned into a bunch of criticism over the choices that others make when it has nothing to do with them personally. It would probably be moral for a millionaire to donate money to those in need, but it is not against the law to be immoral.  People came to this country for a better way of life and I would think that there are many more things to be concerned about than how much jewelry a person owns.

I am sometimes amazed at the amount of things that some people own. I am also sometimes jealous. I feel it is more important to have the things that I need rather than want I want, but oh how I would love to be in a position to have an abundance of both. What is the point of working hard for yourself and your family if you can't enjoy it exactly the way you choose? At the end of the day, it's up to you and shoudn't matter to anyone else.


