First thing of the first, happyness is a feeling,  it might change accroding to time, people and environment. But for most of the time, I think people are more liklely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals tahn on the happniess of others.
If we get a chance to ask when people around us when would they feel happy, I believe most of the answers would be I got a good job, I have stable relationship, I bought a house or a car recently, these are all personal goals, not the happiness of others. Even when we are taking surveys, majority of the provided choices would be something related to the person themselve, it's rare to see a proivided choices stating I was happy when others are happy, regardless of the situation.
Think the other way, there are always people feel happy on Earth, in your country, or even in your own home, your next of kins, they are always peopel happy, if people are more likely to be happy on the happiness of others, why there would still be that much sad people? I am not denying that the happiness of others will bring happiness to oneselef, but this has some strict requirement. First such happiness is limited, it can comfort people for a while but not long, second, these emtions source would not solve the real problem, imagine a senario, that a poor dad and husband wants to provided his wife and kids a better house, he works so hard but after planning, he finds out he has to work for another twenty years to achieve his goal, do you think it's likely that his happiness when he see the rich people enjoying their trip in their summer house on a beautiful island, would keep long? No!
Last, I would like to insert that, achiving one's personal goals can provide real benefits to that very person, if that person lacks food, shelter, or other essential stuff, the person would not be happy only becuase others are happpy, since in the end, he has to making his own living, if his own life is even in danger, how can he be happy only because of other?
 The above paragraphs summries my overall thoughts.

