     Modern society is definitely centered around making and spending money.  Many of us may long for a simpler time when flashy material possessions didn't dominate advertisements and social media, but times have changed from the good old days when all we needed was the basics to be happy.  While today's materialistic culture seems to be accepted and even normalized, I feel that society definitely derserves to be criticized for being materialistic.  
     When I think back to my childhood, I think of a simpler time when all I needed was a warm home, clothing on my back, and the love of my family to feel genuine happiness.  Today's society is focused on materialism, and it can be seen by watching television for five minutes or scrolling on Facebook or any other social media website.  People love to acquire possessions and spend money as well as showing off their possessions nearly any chance they get.  While that seems to be the way the world is today, it should not be free from criticism.  I feel we need to get back to the old days of being happy in life without anything but the basics.  I do not like that children and young adults these days are see the materialism in our world and think they must strive to make as much money and spend it in a materialistic manner in order to fit in.  
     I am just as guilty as the next person when it comes to materialism.  I work hard to make as much money as I can and often spend the money on objects and products that I do not really need.  In this sense I deserve criticism as much as the next person and society as a whole.  It seems unfair to criticize society including myself and not offer somewhat of a solution.  I propose we all take some time to think about the generations before us and definitely take a lesson.  Sometimes we need to stop and think about what actually brings happiness in life, such as friends, family, and spending time in nature.  Perhaps if we are all able to stop being so materialistic we will get back to what really matters.
     Today's society is definitely too materialistic.  People are obsessed with making and spending as much money as they can.  We all seem to hate that this is the way the world is, but we do not seem capable or even willing to do something about it.  If we all make an effort to focus on the simpler things that matter in life perhaps we can put an end to or slow down our materialistic ways.   I am willing to do my part and hope everyone else is as well.  Today's world and society is definitely materialistic, but it does not have to be if we all reassess what is important to us.
