I truly believe that happiness can be defined differently depending on who you ask, and additionally, I believe that those definitions can change over time. For me, happiness is defined much differently now when compared to how I defined it when I was younger. To be honest, I have never been as happy as I am currently, which is the reason I feel more inclined to have an interesting take on the question, "Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others?". 

Personally, there are three areas in particular by which I can (sort of) define my own happiness: how content I am in my current circumstances, the health of relationships that are important to me, and how I think of and towards myself as a person. Additionally, when considering the health of relationships that are important to me, I only look as far as the part that I individually play in each relationship (for example, if someone is upset with me, or dislikes me, for reasons beyond my control or beyond my effort, then I try to not let this significantly impact my happiness). When I take a look at these areas in which I feel my happiness can be measured or defined, it indicates to me that I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals rather than on the happiness of someone, or anyone, else. 

We as individuals are never, ever going to be able to please everyone, or make everyone happy. There are even certain days (and maybe many days, or even the majority of days) when we won't be able to make even the people who are the most important to us happy. You, as an individual, can only control yourself and what you do, not what others do. If you base your happiness on the happiness and opinions of others, it is a constantly moving goalpost. You will never be able to achieve complete satisfaction or contentedness when the happiness of others is the ultimate goal. When I finally learned this lesson for myself, I became a much happier person. I decided to live for myself and my own happiness rather than being so dependent on what other people think of me, or other peoples' unattainable happiness.

However, I do believe that focusing on your own happiness and own goals can potentially bring about the happiness of others. For example, if I have a goal or dream to obtain a certain high paying job that will leave my family and I better off than we previously were, it could bring happiness to my husband and/or children. If I raise money for a charity that helps feed hungry children in Uganda, it can help bring about some happiness to the children I am helping feed.

In conclusion, this is, all in all, a rather simple and short explanation of why I feel that focusing on your own personal goals and living for your own happiness rather than for someone else's happiness is what will end up making people happier.



