We live in a world where what we see is often elevated above all else. As a result, shiny and new take center stage. So many of the decisons we make are with our eyes, rather than our mind.

In this essay, we will discuss in further detail how companies really target our visual senses in their advertising. They prey upon our eyes and how we are prone to making decisions with how something looks over how well something might actually work.

One of the first examples that comes to mind is in the clothing industry. We watch commercials on TV and social media of people who look seemingly perfect on the outside. The clothing companies make it seem as if you will look as happy as the model does when you wear the clothes as well. Rather than focus on the quaity and durability of their product, they sink millions of dollars into hiring models who will make their product look good, when in reality, hardly anyone (including the models themselves) look like this in real life. 

Another example is when companies use famous athletes to endorse one of their products. Again, rather than focusing on the quality of the product being offered, companies ride the celebrity status of the celebrity endorsing their product. We as consumers fall for this ploy, by purchasing the product merely because our favorite athlete tells us to.

Companies would say that they are merely adding to the quality of their product by making it look good on the outside. And I'm sure that some are. But when I see Matthew Stafford endorsing AT&T phones, all I'm left thinking is how he used to be my favorite football player on the Detroit Lions before he was traded to the LA Rams. 

In conclusion, we live in a hyper visual world. And companies are not soley to blame for taking advantage of this fact. We as consumers need to due our part in checking the quality of the product rather than merely focus on the outward appearance. Because  in reality, things are not going to change from the advertising side of things. They will continue to sell their products by outward appearance and packaging over quality. It's justy how it is. 
