How on earth do we achieve true happiness?  In order to understand how to achieve happiness, we must first attempt to define happiness.  Happiness is different for everyone; however, we can generally agree that happiness is a state of contentment with oneself.  Happiness, in other words, is an acceptance and involvement in the world around you.

A connection with our enviornment is, quite possibly, the foundation of happiness.  This connection, or spirituality, helps us find our path.  Some find they are most content when connecting with the outdoors, others find their path by connecting with others.  For many, it is a combination of the two.  Spirtuality does not necessarily mean religion.  It is simply recognizing that we are all connected in some way.  In my anecdotal experiences, those people I have met that are the angriest and/or saddest often have admitted to having no sense of connectedness.  One friend stated it simply:  "We are born.  We eat, sleep, screw, and die.  That's it."  He is a good man.  But he is admittedly, sad.  

Finding a way to connect with each other and contribute brings a feeling of belonging and peace.  Giving, without expecting anything in return, is incredibly satisfying.  Think about cleaning a messy room, or building something from scratch.  You are filled with a sense of accomplishment.  Finding a way to give, each day, whether to an individual or the community is truly rewarding.  

When I have been at my absolute darkest, I have found that altruistic acts help pull me back to where I should be.  Recognizing that each positive action I take, helps move us towards a more positive world feels good.  

We must also realize we cannot control the entire world.  We should just work on focusing on what we can make better within ourselves and our community.  If your connection to happiness is through others, find a way to make your actions with others positive.  Say a kind work, hold doors open, if someone is struggling, try to help.  If our connection to happiness is through our community or enviornment, dedicate a few minutes to picking up garbage you see on the street, spending a few minutes planting a garden.  Find a way to give back.

Finally, we must also learn to value what we have instead of relying on getting more stuff to make us happy.  As Sheryl Crow says, 'It's not getting what you want, but wanting what you've got."  In our race to "keep up with the Jones's" we often lose sight of what we really want/need.  We forget about our childhood dreams.  We should aim to value what we have and be grateful.  This does not mean we do not try to achieve more, but we don't let that drive us.  

Once we accept that happiness is not about money or possessions, we can begin to find happiness in service and good works.  A feeling of connection and community can help us all achieve a better place and a sense of well-being.  

Finding your own spiritual path is the principal basis of all happiness.  I have found mine by doing the best I can each day.  I try to be a better mother, a better Christian and a better wife than I was the day before.  How do I do that?  I try to interact with others with honesty and compassion.  I do my best to respect the beliefs of others and educate myself when we have differing opinions.  I recognize we are all struggling to make our way in a difficult world.  

Humility provides great strength for me.  Recognizing that I cannot and never will be perfect helps.  But it does not mean I stop trying.  I try to remember that, in order to effect change, I need to change myself.  I cannot change the world, but my actions should be a reflection of what I hope to see in others.  Perhaps, by being kind, humble, and respectful, I can make a small difference.  By loving what I have and valuing those around me, I can continue with happiness.  Taking time to appreciate the small things helps me focus on the larger.  And, of course, petting my dog brings me immense joy!


