Images and impressions have been used by humans since the dawn of time to help advance agendas. A new normal has formed where appearances are more important than substance. The idea that a person's appearance is more important than a person's reality has taken shape with the recent social media frenzy. A person's online image has become just as important as what is actually happening in the reality of their life. The advent of social media has made it so that images and impressions effect people negatively.

The rise of social media has allowed for everyone to post their lives to the world. The fact that people can post their lives to the world means that they are able to manipulate their image to fit the narrative that they want to impress on other people. For example, a person could make social media posts showing how happy they are with photos that have amazing filters and show a certain level of success. When in reality the person could be depressed and barely holding it together. Another person who sees the life of the original poster could feel that their life is not good enough because they are judging their own life against the original poster, not knowing that the person actually isn't living that life. People must be careful when viewing social media and realize that the posts are not always the truth and not always representing the true image of the person posting.

The advent of social media has led to an increase in the creation of people's ideal image of themselves online. A person may not be living the life they are posting about at all. Other's may take a social media profile at face value and become depressed that their own life is not as exciting as the poster's life. It has become paramount to remember that what is seen online is not always the full truth. Allowing someone's online image to form an impression on the way someone should live their life will effect them in terrible ways. Life is hard. We all know it. Yet, life can always be made to look easy online.  
