  There are many problems in the society of today. Injusice, inequality, war, and conflict, all widespread issues across the globe. Many of these issues are caused by our inability to cooperate and work together towards a more peaceful and loving community. Competition has driven us apart, resulting in more pain and suffering for those who can't get ahead.
   Humans are a social species. Long before society we had communities and families. We intereacted with eachother, socialized, played, assisted one another. Even before modern medicine, when many believe that survival of the fittest was what ruled man, we took care of our injured and disabled. Remains of pre-societal humans have been found to show mended injuries like broken legs and people who lived to old age without teeth or deformities that would make it hard to impossible to move around or assist their communities. They were taken care of by their loved ones, not left to the elements or predators like so many people today believe or insist. They worked together and cooperated to make sure everyone had enough food, a place to sleep, interactions with the group. 
   In modern times, society has pivoted to be more hostile to people who can't live on their own. Disability and injury are considered weakness and result in discrimination, especially in the work force. Work is competitive. One either must get ahead or fall behind, get the promotion or be unable to afford their bills, get a second job and work the grind or be unable to afford their medications. This rivalry makes people less sympathetic to one another and fuels the flames of racist, misogynist, and ableist rhetoric. Why pause the grind to help your neighbor pick up groceries when that means you'll fall behind on your own goals? It's an individualist mindset and it is actively harming how one percieves and reacts to others.
   There are some advantages to competition. Playful competition in sports is one of the most well loved means of play. Pitting teams or minds against eachother results in pushing our limits and boundaries. Olympic athletes are the pinnacle of human strength and endurance because they pushed themselves in competition. Rivalry and competition works in a capitalist society theorically, because consumers want the best for the least and finding new ways to make the best options cheaper drives the market. However, in practice, capitalism has resulted in cheap, easily broken commodities at exorbitant prices because a few individuals control the supply chain. Consumers are forced to buy the things they need- food, water, housing, - because competition has allowed some people to lockaway access to these things for fear of others getting them and thus and edge in the market.
   Humans are naturally cooperative. Working together has made us stronger, has built up communities and made progress. The polio vaccine was made free by its creator so that others wouldn't suffer, and saved millions of lives. Modern vaccines and life saving medications cost hundreds and thousands of dollars because medical and insurance companies want to make more money than their competitors. Many changes need to be made and we need to help eachother again and cooperate to make a better world. 
