   There was seldom a time in the history when human beings did not seek to acquire material possessions and store up items of value. In fact, material possessions such as sticks and stones were used by our earliest ancestors as they began to gain intellectual ability. Being able to handle and manuever items is one of the main reasons that human beings have evolved into the complicated creatures that we are today. Storing up possessions allowed our ancestors to survive and grow entire civilizations. Therefore, it makes sense that we continue the tradition of storing things up for ourselves and growing our wealth, does it not?

    The issue of materialism, or the desire for possessions, is criticized more than ever in modern times, but still followed widely. Some argue that this materialistic nature of humans is inherent and foolish to criticize. However, few can argue that much has changed since our early human ancestors envied their neighbor's stockpile of spears and tools. The lust for possessions has led to destruction of families, shrinking wealth distribution, and countless wars and lives lost. 

    Materialism has led to issues with global pollution, income inequality, and a general state of unhappiness amongst the masses. Government and society has continued to press for more goods and services, meeting the ever growing demand of the middle and upper class, while the working class is continually forced into submission. Some have argued that the push for more technology and innovation is trickling down and becoming available to the lower class as time progresses. While this may be slightly true on a foundational level, this offer leaves out the people of today. This mindset also pushes the issue further into the future, where there will be less options to fix the permanent damage caused by greed and money.

    While society continues to push materialistic agendas, the people of today will continue to face oppression. Our collective desire to advance and grow as a people should not be stifled, but we must remember to protect the planet and its inhabitants before it is too late. There is no simple answer, but proponents of strong capitalistic ideals and profit first mindsets will happily run rampant until the status quo is changed. It will not happen overnight, but even if just a few minds and hearts are changed now, it is possible to turn society around. If this generation of the 21st century fail in escaping the trappings of materialism, then we will become what we so hopelessly chased after: cold, lifeless objects, without any trace of humanity left. 
