As the world keeps evolving into a more modern civilzation with technology advancment, images and impressions of certain products and people are blurred between reality and perfection. As we strive to perfect our beauty or social standing. The use of simply tuning our faces, or blurring imperfections in products has become far more easy than before the advancements of technology.  The use of hiding our reality to the rest of the worlds has become more easy as we vlog, post and project a certain lifestyle that is entirely false advertisment. 
With technology and the internet and social media outlets play a major role in those as well.  As one watches a commercial for certain products in the food industry, we see juicy, big and delicious food but once reality hits. We see how imperfect the food really is small and looked like it was put together in a hurry. Another example would be how on social media platforms and influencers have staged a certain happy lifestyle to their viewers, how flawless their skin is, being self made for an influncer, products or a eating lifestyle that were life changing to them. We only see a portion of what their lifestyle is when the camera is on. We only see how well the food intice us but we dont realize that its foam, plastic and not even food to begin with. The products/eating lifestyle that they portrayed was actually a minor surgery, lipo suction, fat freezing technology or they ate a portion of food and starved themselves. Not alot of influencers or products that are shown online has a positive impact onto one's life.
The upside to having a blurred vision on relaity versus online is that you're easily influnceed which is the endgame. We read, see and start to believe that its true. The realization that we are in a more modern advcanment of technology and how impacts our life in postive ways we dont realize the negative. When looking at inlfuncers project their "lifestyle", you'll want to invest or purchase products they have to mimic their "lifestyle" when the camera is on. How easy to manipluate one into buying, saying or making this or that with just a "pretty" face, social standing or public figure.
Everyone thinks how well a product, lifestyle, food that we try to mimic it into how lifestyle. As we grow and realize that the world around us isn't all rainbows and sunshines like we use to think then we realize how blurred our vision was.
