  Happiness is an interesting emotion.  Each person obtains and experiences happiness in a different way.  What makes one person happy may make another miserable. One specific difference of how people experience happiness is through focusing on one's own goals or focusing more on the happiness of others.  I don't believe that there's a right or wrong answer in this situation, but i do believe there's some misunderstanding.  Allow me to explain. 

  It is my personal opinion that people are happiest when focusing on their own goals.  I don't think anyone would argue that accomplishing something you put your mind to makes you feel happiness.  That accomplishment could be mastering a recipe, getting results at the gym, being promoted at work, or getting good grades in school. Doing these things is usually met with a rush of emotion, joy, and a big smile.  

  Other people may agrue that focusing on others will give someone the most happiness.  I do not disagree that certain people are focused in this way.  What I will argue is that you're ignoring the point.  In situations like this those people ARE accomplishing their goals.  Their goal is to make others happy.  It's the same as the gym or recipe example being a person goal.  The only difference is that their primary goal is to make others happy/help with the other person's goals. An example of this would be helping a friend with a big event. In this scenario your primary focus is the goal of someone else (their event), but helping them accomplish this is a personal goal of yourself.  It's the same as accomplishing your own goals, you just so happen to be helping others at the same time.

  In conclusion happiness is felt and expressed in different ways by different people.  Some people feel that happiness is best experienced through focusing on one's personal goals while other argue that it's best experienced through the happiness of others.  I believe that focusing on the happiness of others IS A PERSONAL GOAL and that both scenarios are one in the same. If your primary focus is the happiness of others that is a personal goal even if it's not one that's tangible to you. 
  
