     Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic because it does more harm than good. The high level of materialism that we have in modern society causes numerous problems. It creates an enormous amount of waste. It creates tension in society based on who has more things, who has better things, and who has newer things. It creates an often false and fleeting sense of happiness when one acquires something new. It teaches youth to value items more than interactions and relationships. Overall, the negatives of materialism far outweigh the positives.
     First of all, this materialistic mentality that the majority of people in current society have has led to the idea that we always need to have newer and better things. This leads to so much waste. The landfills are overfilled with garbage, and a large portion of that are items that have outlived their desirability and have been replaced with newer items. Our materialism also creates a sense that people who have more are better people. They are often looked up to for what they own rather than their character. This also makes people with less feel bad about themselves, and they end up spending so much time and money trying to obtain better items, that they miss out on many experiences that could bring them real joy and happiness. All too often, one makes the realization late in life that all the material objects they have acquired really did not bring them the happiness they thought it would. 
     One might argue that if buying and acquiring items brings people some bit of happiness, then what harm is it, but it does cause harm. It leads to social inequalities, mental distress, and harm to the planet. Of course, having things that brings a person joy would not have to be eliminated entirely, but the massive need that we think we have for more and more things is totally false. There is nothing wrong with getting enjoyment from obtaining an item, but the amount of value that we have put on this is far too extreme. If we could focus on enjoying experiences and interactions with other people more, we would find more happiness in life overall.
     In conclusion, modern society is too materialistic. We value things more than people. We compare ourselves with others based on what we have instead of who we are. If we could reset ourselves and focus on meaningful interactions with each other, rather than the grandest, biggest, and shiniest new thing that week, we would achieve real long lasting happiness. We could spend so much more time on being with each other, and working for the good of all people and our planet, if we did not spend so much time working on makind and acquiring the latest and greatest. We should all remember that sometimes, less is more.
     
