I recall once there was a show called "keeping up appearances", which leads me to my Nana's favorite phrase, "what will the neighbors think"?  Although my Nana has been gone for years and years, those words resonate within me as I see all the impressions that people try to portray when behind the curtain we would find things much different.  We base our emotions way too much on what is placed in front of us.

Don't get me wrong, I am quite guilty of trying to make things appear better than they are at times, as are the majority of people I come into contact with.  We put on a happy smile, a bright dress, flashing jewelry, showing we are happy and carefree but those outer appearances can be very deceptive.  A well put together individual could be crying inside, the outer shell we see is just a facade.  The impression they give is quite false and unless we pay more attention the the person, we give in and believe the false impression that we see.

This is not always the case, and we must remember the image we see, well, it could be the reality of the person we are viewing, that is important to remember.  We must also pay attention to safety, for example, if we see a person down on their luck, begging for money, most of us feel sad and want to help.  That impression, or image, of a homeless woman, crying and desperate could be a scam or even a set up for something worse.  

I like to think about the movie "Shallow Hal", where people's appearance matched their insides.  It's a shame this isn't a true thing, it would certainly be a better world.  The social media beauty you see could be a horrible person that beats her children.  The beautifully wrapped gift under a perfect Christmas tree could contain a rotten apple inside.

The main point I'm making here is pay attention to details, not just the big picture you see in front of you.  Impresssions are easy to come by and by delving in a little deeper, that impression you got from the person or item that you just saw could be very false.
Don't make rash judgments five seconds after what you see.  You'll be better off in the long run!
