Humans are visual creatures. We use images and speech to influence each other and share ideas. Advertisements have been used for ages to influence peoples' thoughts, opinions, and desires. In the current age of social media, it rings even more clear that we as a society are influenced way too much by these images and impressions.

One of the most brought up topics is how photoshopped images of models influences young girls' self-esteem and opinions of themselves. This is more prevelant nowadays with the constant Instagram and TikTok filters floating around the Internet. Young women are constantly shown these images of perfect beings and are under constant comparison with them. These images have negatively impacted our society and have led to many people feeling poorly about their self-image. So many teens refuse to post images of themselves without using multiple filters and editing softwares. They feel as if they are expected to portray a perfect image at all times. This misuse of social media has negatively impacted the self-esteem of so many people and younger generations have put more stock into looking physically attractive than other features. 

Another topic at hand is political advertisements on social media. Social media circles have become echo chambers and people are influenced by political images more than they are influenced by scientific fact. Surrounding themselves with opinions and advertisements that align with their beliefs has sheltered them from true facts and has caused a lot of harm to society. Advertisements promoting anti-vaccination beliefs has led to disease spreading and more people are refusing to listen to scientific facts or proper research. There are many outright false videos and images on the Internet that are accepted as fact because of how strong their influence has over the common layman. 

There is a plethora of misinformation that people see all too often, and society holds this information to a standard that is much too high. These social media images are full of falsehoods and too much stock is put into them. This has caused major discourse in society. Biased images and impressions have divided people and influenced them too greatly. People have become set in their ways and refuse to listen to reason or have a civilized discussion. If things do not align with their viewpoints they double down and revisit their echo chambers. 

Another prime example is the MAGA worship from Trump's presidency. Trump has done so much damage to American politics and still has followers to this day. People have abandoned decency and respect for politics and have bolstered this man on a pedestal. No president is perfect, and some Trump hate is exaggerated, but it is concerning how highly worshipped a single man is solely based on his platform. He has done a lot of harm during his political career, but his followers refuse to see any of his wrongdoings. He has formed a cult following of citizens that would be willing to abandon all sense of decency for the sake of supporting their leader who isn't even a leader anymore. Since Trump has left office, racial discrimination has gone up and there has been more hate crime activity. White supremecists have gotten bolder and have come out of hiding.

On the opposite side of Trump supporters, we have people that have created echo chambers on the far left. I am personally a left-leaning person, but I acknowledge that there are people that are liberal that stay in their own echo chambers and put too much praise on their own political leaders. They also will put too much hate and criticism on opposing sides without viewing proper evidence. There is a lack of research from certain groups and they accept all hate statements as long as it aligns with their views. 


At the end of the day, images and impressions do have too much effect on people. They influence our self-esteem and they skew our worldviews.
