People value the way things look, this is an age old truism. This explains the beauty industry's  large popularity. This is why plastic surgery is so widespread. This all to promote an illusion. Corporations and businesses have taken note and pedal this narrative to the population at large. Form over substance, is the phrase of our age!  The attention span of persons in our generation is rapidly shrinking. If you do not catch a person attention in a brief time then he is lost to your message. Has this always been the case? No, prior generations would listen to speeches and form impressions on a deeper level than today's. What has caused this modern phenominon?

The brain is a finely tuned instrument. It can do amazing things. But, it must be trained and developed. prior generations read classic books most notably the Holy Bible. Reading of good literature, like the Bible sharpens the intellect and makes one more discerning. Images are more critically analyzed and subjects more firmly grasped. This had an ellavating affect on society in general and the person specifically. Abraham Lincoln was not an attractive man by most accounts. But his popularity rested on his carefully woven speeches and his finely turned arguments. Would he have been elected today? I doubt it. Televison sound bites rule the world. A person physical appearance has great appeal today.

The contrary view is that although beauty attracts people, there are plenty of less than attractive people paired in marriage. It seems as if people will look closer into a person's character in choosing a mate. Does this mean that people less inclined to judge a book by its cover? Does it mean that people value substance  over form? I think not. Divorce rates are at a all time high. People are less engaged in what really matters in our society at large. Political debate is at an all time low in actual quality. Morals are eroding under the bright lights of secularism. No. form still rules it still sits on its throne and orders the life of its poor subjects. 
