We are all familiar with the stories of rich kings, spoiled princes, and well to do ladies learning to find happiness through simplicity. The idea that being  poorer equals a simple peace can be found everywhere from classical literature  to the blockbuster movie "Titanic".  The possession  of items is something that oftens feels as it should be apoligized for, despite being constantly bombarded with messages to purchase more things. Amazon Prime day is practically a holiday. Black Friday shopping is considered just as much of Thanksgiving as turkey. We are quick to glorify simplicity and yet also blame ourselves for being too materialistic. This is a critisism that I feel is undeserved. 
As soon as children begin school, they are asked what they want to be when they grow up. There are talks about college and the jobs they will hold in the future We teach children that a large amount of their worth is based upon what they can contribute to society. This contribution is not framed as "How many people can you offer your friendship?" or "What will make your days seem meaningful?" but "What task can you perform to make money?" We ask children this because we know that money is needed to purchase items that make like easier. Beyond the basics of clothing and shelter, there are items we can purchase to pursue hobbies, gifts for others that we love, and small items that remind us of others.  It stands to reason that we as a society would be preoccupied with items. It is how we have learned we can show that we are contributing members of our world. 
It is easy to glamourize simplicity. Just as it is easy for those with little money to glamorize the lives of those who do have funding. We will always be fascinating by what we do not experience. If someone is unhappy with the amount of materialism in their individual life, then that is an issue for them to change on an individual level. Everyone should pursue a life that makes them happy.  If those who find fault in our world for being too materialistic wish to critize, perhaps they should take their critisim to the systems of government that have created a capitalistic framework for life. Unless we are willing to undergo a complete societal chance, this is the world in which we operate.  While we as individuals can ensure that possessions do not rule our lives, there is no sin in enjoying the fruits of our labor. 
I believe that individuals are good. The core of us wants the best for ourselves and others. There is a balance to all things. Individuals finding joy in spending money and building collections is not a fault to critize but rather another balance to find in life. 

