People often say that it is so important to make a good first impression. Presenting a good image  from the start can leave a good lasting impression with people.  But is this first impression truthful? Can we have a good understanding of something or someone new after such a small sample size?  Sometimes this is possible, but most times we need more evidence.  What we see and what we hear is not the full story, but people still believe it.  It can be extremely easy to see images and have them create impressions that are not the actual reality.

Living in a society in which the lives of celebrities, athletes, and political figures dominate the headlines, we often make strong connections to these figures based on what we hear and what we see.  Whenever we hear a positive story about a famous figure or read quotes from an interview, it is easy to feel like we personally know that person.  But time and time again, we see that the information presented to us isn't the whole truth.  Recent news stories about the legal troubles of actor Ezra Miller paint them as a very troubled individual in need of therapy and mental help.  Prior to these stories, however, Ezra was always presented as a talented and quirky actor who was passionate about the projects they took on.  It was easy to see Ezra dress up in cosplay at Comic Con and think they were a fun, carefree person to be around.  Unfortunately, there was no way of knowing the troubles they were experiencing internally.  What we see online or on television is just a small portion of their life, and what we are seeing may not be their authentic, true self.

The way famous people and products are presented and marketed are always going to be exaggerated to some extent.  It is important that each person does their own research on new products to see if it will really meet their wants and needs.  We also need to acknowledge that famous figures are not always their authentic selves when presented in the media.  We need to understand that they are human just like us, and that they are going through some of the same struggles that we experience. Society as a whole needs to be more mindful of the images that we are seeing, and be more mindful that what we are seeing and hearing may not be reality. 
