Competition has created many great heroes and success stories. Geat achievements on which to brag about. Like the race for the moon or the simple science fairs of our youth when we competed against each other to have the most impressive experiment. 

That sense of competitiveness has driven society to reach great achievements in math and science. Sadly the interest in those fields of study have decreased dramatically since the 1970's. 

In the 80's when glass was filling our landfills, plastic became the saviour of our environment. I personally remember the commercials touting that the technology required and achieved by space travel had inadvertantly unveiled the great use of plastics in our daily lives and the solution to our environmental concerns. It was the wave of the future. many great medical devices were created from the new wave of using plastics.  Plastic has been a great benefit, and it appeased the paranoid for the time being, but of course, with every new discovery, there awaits a newer discovery.

That particular point aside, math and science have produced a great many benefits to our society and we should as a society encourage our youth to become interested in those fields again.

Once a significant discovery has been made, it then requires cooperation by governments and corporations to turn those discoveries into usable products for society, or procedures. 

Many people claim that space travel is a waste of taxpayer money. Perhaps it is, the money spent on space travel could feed many hungry people. That can not be argued with. But space travel holds magic in our imaginations, which is worth much. As an aside, science has enabled the feeding of a lot more people than money ever has.  

A brilliant child may not understand his brilliance if not given the opportunity to compete in science, many great achievemants might be lost without the encouragement of that comepetition. 

People claim they never have use for the Algebraic equations they struggled to learn in their youth, but those few that grasped it and fell in love with it, and took it to great heights, those are the children that make those cumbersome Algebra classes worth the struggle. 

Without competition, children will never learn that if they push themselves, even against the impossible, and they succeed, and even sometimes if they fail, life holds a world of magic for them, and society benefits from that magic. The cooperation comes in the aftermath, with putting their great discoveries to use in our society. Maybe to create the "new plastic" or to fuel another genius child's mind.

In summation, cooperation can only happen in the aftermath of competition. So I would argu that both are equally important in life and in society. There's is nothing to cooperate on, if there is no discovery to work with.
