Happiness is something that everyone as a human being is searching for. Many of us go our entire lives questioning ourselves, "How can I be happy?" This has been an eternal question for humankind since the dawn of time. There's been much debate as to whether happiness comes from within ourselves or whether we can only derive it from the happiness of other people. The truth is that most likely, happiness is dependent on the people who we surround ourselves with.
Humans are essentially social animals. Without being around other people, human beings suffer negative consequences, such as depression and maladjustment to life. Since the day we are born, we crave companionship and acceptance. Without socialization, we suffer and struggle. The love of other people is something crucial to our development and to being happy in life. It's an essential part of what makes the human experience what it is.
We all possess empathy, which is crucial to our own happiness and sense of well-being. When we see our friends and family doing well, we feel a sense of accomplishment as well. Our loved ones' successes can feel like our own successes in most cases. When we see others struggling, it hurts us as well. This is just another reason why our sense of contentment is so dependent on the people around us. 
This is one of the core arguments people use when they want to prove that solitary confinement is cruel and unusual. Prisoners left on their own for days without human contact suffer psychologically and can never be happy. The reason behind this is because we have social needs, and our happiness is greatly dependent upon those needs.
Some people may tell you that all you need to be happy is yourself. They will say that true joy is found within, and while it may be true that self-improvement and self love can provide you happiness to some degree, it's simply not possible to be happy all by yourself. As the saying goes, "No man is an island." Without other people, true happiness cannot happen. It's one of the reasons people strive so hard for friendship and romantic relationships, because there is no better feeling than being around people who care about you.
It's very hard to truly feel happy in life, but we can all help each other achieve it if we treat one another with kindness and empathy. There's no feeling better than that of acceptance and love. Love is the true source of happiness in the end, and it's something that is best shared and not kept away selfishly.
