In today's world, it can be easy to get swept up in the idea of something. We are constantly told how to feel about different products, experiences, and even people. It seems that the actual quality of what is being sold to us is not as important as how it looks or is perceived by the consumer. There is a huge problem today with buying in to what is shown to us instead of taking products for what they are. 
A new trend on social media is body acceptance. This trend was a necessary rebuttal to the constant portrayal of beauty standards in America. Photo editing is the norm when we should be able to celebrate ourselves for who we truly are. However, the vast majority of the population continue to feed in to what is portrayed. They follow beauty standards and wish their own lives away for what they see on social media. Think of the types of commercials you see on TV today. There are multiple ads on for fragrances which, if you think about it, should be seen as silly. How can you advertise something when there is absolutely no way to accurately show the consumer the product? By selling an idea. The thought of an experience. That is exactly what these ads do and this should absolutely have us as a society questioning the way we perceive what is shown to us. 
Now, there will be plenty of individuals who see no wrongdoing here. Advertising is advertising and they are free to appeal to consumers however they please. This should certainly not by accepted as the correct way of thinking, it promotes untruthfulness as well as succumbing to perception. People should be encouraged to think for themselves, to choose what works best for them. Selling products without any pertinent information about them should at the very least be considered lying by omission. 
In conclusion, society has fallen in to a trap that we need to pull ourselves out of. It may be hard, but not impossible. The way you or others perceive a person or product is typically not the truth and should be treated as such. Further, the promises made are short lived. Once you take these products home, it's easy to feel a sort of emptiness. Where there was a promise of joy and good times is now just a perfume bottle, filled with a fragrance you wouldn't have paid for had you smelled it beforehand. There is much more enjoyment to be had, if we can look past the lies being sold to us and take things for what they are. 
