I think the topic of materialism is one that should certainly be studied in western society, especiall America.  It has enveloped most of our lives and with the information on demand nature of the internet and social media it can at times be weaponized.  One one hand it is a source or foundation of our economy and so much "stuff" that gets made is the source of jobs and wealth, but on the other reckless spending has bankrupted many and distracted them from true meaning.  On the surface the idea that acquiring any material object would add to ones life, or provide lasting meaning is certainly ridiculous, but that is the lazy approach.  You don't know someones background or how an object could mean more to them than you for any particular reason.  Perhaps they grew up with nothing so acquiring a certain car or object provides valuable self worth and means something you could never understand if you came from a priveleged background.

I think materialism can give certain people true happiness albeit for a short amount of time.  Over the long run it should really only be taken in moderation, like all things in life.  There is so much more to life than wanting "stuff", but in a free country who are we to truly question or critize someones behaviors?  After all, it is their own money and decisions, right?  That is why I place most of the blame on "apps", such as instagram and others for distorting reality.  It's really the fault of "big tech", advertisers and web developers.  This opinion has become more legitimate over the last few years as we learn about insidious algorithims that direct certain content to certain people.  It really is a tale as old as time from 100 years ago when advertisers made "girl colors" and "boy colors" (meaning pink for girls etc.), this allowed them to segment the population and direct certain targeting advertising.  It's the same today but 1000 times more sophisticated.  

Take a look at some of the celebrities that have capitalized off of this trend.  The Kardashians propelled themsevles into unprecendted wealth and stardom from a sex tape and some reality TV and are now juggernauts of advertising.  Anything they wear gets displayed in the best of light and sold to consumers who think that will make them feel or look better and they make millions or even billions of dollars off of this.  Go to any celebrity social media page and it's almost all they do - simply advertise products and they get a cut.  Maybe a portion of those profits should be going back to the people that follow their page or buy the product - sort of a backend rebate.  You could argue that it's always been this way throughout time with televsions commercials or other forms of advertising, but I would strongly disagree.  The smart phone fundamentally changed human behavior and interaction with content in a way we can never undo.  The fact we hold a super computer in our hands is simply fascinating and something most take for granted now.  

In conclusion, I certainly think critizing materialism is justified and probably even warranted from a high level perspective, but only to a certain degree.  We are quick to blame people that "keep up with the jones's" but are they really to blame?  We see someone in the wealthy suburbs with all of their "stuff" and instantly blame them or think they are shallow, but look at how powerful the psychological aspects of social media and pressure are - they cause people to kill themselves!  If the psychological affects of social media and distorted reality are powerful enough for someone to commit the ultimate act of suicide I certainly feel the propenderence of blame should not fall on the individuals themselves.  Its time that congress or someone to crack down on these billionaires in silicon valley.  At the very least they should share their profits with mental health centers.
