Materialism is usually not something that people like to admit falling victim to and is often depicted as being negative but it is an important part of the economy and has positive impacts as well. While the desire to acquire things and to spend money in general can lead to negative behaviors for an individual, this kind of spending is what drives the economy and very often, the ambition of individuals. There are pitfalls to be aware of in regards to materialism but equally true is materialism is often what drives a healthy economy, can have a positive effect on individuals, and often inspires creativity and innovation in the process. 

While there are certainly negative impacts involved with materialism, it also often drives innovation, invention, and creativity in many different ways. For example, people who want to live a certain lifestyle and be able to purchase a lot of material items are likely not only to be more motivated to engage in the workforce, but also support the economy by consuming products that other people make and sell. Additionally, businesses are driven to make products because of people's desire to purchase material items which also spurs the economy, creates jobs, and creates products that can be sold abroad as well, further adding to the financial stability of an economy. There are many benefits for society that are a result of materialism without even mentioning the ways in which specific material items such as computers, jewelry, clothes, electronics, etc impact an individuals life for the better. People get enjoyment out of the material items they acquire as many times these items improve quality of life by bringing enjoyment, fulfilling a need, or just making things more convenient or interesting. Materialism also often spurs competition which, in healthy amounts, can lead to innovation, reaching new milestones, and finding creative ways to reach new goals. Although there are negative impacts to be cautious of and balance is important, there are a lot of positive benefits for individuals, economies, and society at large as a result of materialism. 

While some may say that materialism drives greed, is associated with poor business practices and other negative impacts, there are many positive impacts that result from materialism as well. Materialism is what drives an economy, the workforce supporting the economy, and often makes individual lives more convenient, enjoyable, connected, and positive in a myriad of ways. While materialism requires balance as most things do, the negative aspects associated with it can be often outweighed by the good when all of the positive factors for societies, economies, and individuals are taken into consideration. Materialism in general tends to be thought of as negative despite there being countless positive aspects to be considered before being overly critical. 

