Images and how they effect the human race has become a very popular topic in recent weeks. Some believe that impressions and images are the first line of sight. I do agree but getting to know a person or something about an image could totally change the perspective of how we percieve others and how they reflect those impressions or images. 
Lately a popular topic is how girls dress adn how tha impression is how they are percieved as a person. Just because a girl wears a short skirt does not mean she is being disrespectful. Clothing and makeup and how we carry ourselves says nothing about who we are on the inside. Looking at a 43 year old woman who has been married to a man, works in an office wears dresses and has long hair, this woman lefgt her husband of 17 years for a lesbian she had kissed for the first time a week before and they were married in less than a year. That married woman never looked gay but nobody knew her inside. She was who she finally wanted to be but knew how people would make that first impression and dismiss who she was. Iamges, the woman looked avarage. Chubby, not that appealing in her eyes, long beautiful blonde curls. She dressed like any female business woman, scarfs, skirts, jackets and cardigans.  Now the image of the woman she later married was not at all like herself. She looked like a she but almost looked like a very young he. She only wore mens clothing and her hair was cut very short. She carried herself more masculine than femme. She presented herself as butch. They were are a very lovely couple, that impressions and images can not give you. 
Young hip girl takes thousands of pictures a day. Goes to music festives and partakes in a little illegal drug use while there. Festival ends she goes back home and continues to take a million pictures all while going to work paying her own bills and not bothering anyone. The small town has all but dismissed her as a young dumb girl waiting tables. However she manages her money so she can have her fun and pay her bills and she doesnt spluge on trivial things. She works hard to paly hard. Yet images alone have given her a bad name simpy becaus ehse likes to put on alot of makeup and short shorts and cute little cut off shirts. This young girl donates her time in the big city during holidays to help feed the homeless. How may peole in that town even know that? She helps pay for her sisters daycare so she can work because she is a single mom. Young girl waits tables 7 nights a week so she can help her sister and do her own thing yet again she is judged based on her skimmy attire and questionable pictures. Its amazing how images and first impressions effect not only the person being judged but also the person doing the judging. 
People are missing out on the bigger picture of what is inside that image or impression? There are so many examples of the negative. However there are some really great advantages of first impressions, gut instaincts for exaple trust it that first impression when your gut is telling you to. Images to see those babies during covid when nobody could travel. Dads could only see there babies born through images in some cases. Life is tough, dont make it ougher by being judgemental on your first impression or from an image that maybe you  should nt be looking at anyways. 
People nowadays think different, they act different, they are out there everyone sees them all the time. Privaacy has become a thing of the past. Everyone over shares and everyone takes their first impression as face value. There will be an effect on how we start veiwing these images in a negative way. First impression or images can be great in certain moments but the negative will always out weigh the good. 

