     To succeed, you should focus more on cooperation than on competition.  When start a new business you will be probably looking forward to suceed.  There are different behaviors that could help you more on having success.  There are different behaviours that could help you more on having success.  It is said that both, cooperation and competition, are neccesary, but cooperation could be more important.  I don't agree with this belief in my opinion, competition is the clue to suceed.  Competition makes you always try to be better thatn oters and obligue you to beat myself.  You will work on giving your best therefore, you will be alwaysmaking your best effort.  Consequently with that, you will succed.
     
     You will never stay the same you will be always becoming better, improving yourself.  Cooperation is important I can realize that, but isn't the clue for suceed.  As you help other ones, they will help you however no one can make you successfull, it is on you.  Cooperation could be helpful and satisfactory but without competition it makes you forget where are you going to, what you wnat to get.

     I will write about a personal experience to exemplify my opinion.  When I got graduated from school I had to take na exam for going to university.  All my classmates that got fraduatefrom school the sme year that I did, had to take the exam as well.  We got prepared for the exam forming a study group that met every evening.  Each one of that group brought their own notes from classes and different books and taught the other ones, so we can all learnt more about the subject we were studying.  This shows how cooperation could be important nevertheless this was not enough for getting a mark in the exam that let you go into university.  All of us wnated to go to university but there were less vacants than postulators.  I neded to get a better mark than many students to be accepted in the faculty I wanted to be in.  That's why me and all of us watched out t the exam, I would other ones progress.  If my classmate got a better mark than I got in an essay fot the exam, I would work harder to get the same or better mark.  Therefore, I was always studying more for getting better marks and I was always trying to do my best.  In that way, I was really prepared at the time of taking the exam and I got a really good mark, so I was admitted in the top university of my country.  The clue to succed was competition, cooperation helped but wasn't the ost important.  Focusing on competition makes you give your best therefore, it conduces you straight into success.  Remember, when you start a new business never to gorget ot have a look on your competition try to beat them and you will be successfull.
