            Modern society should not be criticized for being materalistic because its not other people's fault if they cannot afford something that is looked to as modern, people love to spend money on trendy modern materialistic items, and materalistic things make people extremely happy. Purchasing items that are materalistic can boost your happiness and overall become influenced in today's society. People can make money and spend money by having modern items. Which it is wrong to criticize someone for wanting to be materalistic since they work hard to be able to afford modern materalistic items. Which is be clothing, furniture, or getting cosmetic surgery, since some people consider materalistic things to be cosmetic as well.


          People in today's world should understand that it is no longer living in the past, and that we are now in the future, and as the future is growing it will become more modern despite the circumstances that some people live through. We continue to live on regardless of the matters in society. Smartphones, internet, and electronics will continue to evolve causing a huge impact on younger lives to want to strive for a more rich modern life. The reason we have a modern society is more cost evolving. Society will continue to grow and it will probably always be more on the modern side of things. People always have opinions and they won't agree to modern society because they think it is a waste but if you're willing to put your potential out there, other people can grow from it. Mostly people who are apart of the modern society don't discourage people who are not. It's always the people who look wrongfully on the people who work hard to afford the mordern day items, etc. 

          
         Modern life will continue to grow, and it will become solely our future. Rather rich or not. People can take modern life as being poor as well. Modern doesn't always have to count in on the rich. It can also be apart of middles class, or the poor class. Buying modern things now a days is looked heavily on social media. Being modern and having modern items makes you seem more "clean." Having materalistic items makes people seem more attractive. Materlalistic doesn't have to necessarily meaning affording the most expensive house on the block. You can still have a decent home but have it to be brought more modern by your own doing, and your own purchases. 
         Most people now a days take modern society as a joke, and then get upset when they cannot afford things because they won't work truly as hard as others.  
