Modern society as a whole may be criticized for being materialistic but it would be unfair to criticize individuals who are part of this society for the same. These individuals are simply enjoying the abundance, and enjoyment is a natural human feeling.

Materialism, though often thought of negatively, could also be thought of as a positive reflection of society. The ability to be materialistic is reflective of a society that is rich enough that it is able to have an excess of money and possessions. Very few people would argue that, if it has a choice, a society should opt for the unhappiness that hardship the lack of wealth and materials would bring. 

A society possesses wealth and positions is one that, in most cases, has worked hard to do so. Of course, within societies there will be those whom are better and worse off, but if the society as a whole is better off, it is because, in general, that society has worked together to become so. Now that the society is better off, it is a natural progression that the members of that society have acquired more.

Once more (wealth, goods, etc.) is acquired, then the members of that society must also have the leisure of time during which to care about acquiring more (i.e. to be materialistic). Therefore, although many people criticize materialism, one could argue that it is the prize that a society has been given for working hard to acquire such an abundance AND stabilizing itself in such a way that the members of the society also still have the time and freedom with which to value things.

Of course, one could make a very strong argument that materialism is unappealing. Most people would agree that we should value people and our relationships over possessions and money. But while it is true that we should, most would agree that valuing possessions and money does not mean that a person does not value their relationships with others. Really, it could be argued that having the security of an abundance of possessions and money allows people to enjoy their relationships with others more, as they are not having to worry about meeting their basic needs of sustenance and shelter. Instead, they are able to focus on the relationships. 

Therefore, one could argue that materialism actually allows for people to be, oddly enough, less materialistic. So although modern society can be criticized for being materialistic, one could provide a strong argument that the ability for those in a society to be materialistic is reflective of both a strong, stable society, as well as the resulting ability to also partake in and enjoy many non-materialistic things.
