   We live in a capitalist society. At least, here in the United States of America. Our way of living comes from consuming, and making money off of consumers. So should we shame people for becoming materialistic? Do we gain happiness from the things we buy? Or do we gain happiness for criticizing the things other people buy? 
   I say stop criticizing people, since we as people can only work in the confines of what the people in power give us. We are free to set up our own morals and values, which is great, but often times we use this as a way to make judgements over people as a way of feeling better. I say let people be happy in whatever way they find it. We are all working towards a goal of some sort of success and comfort.
   When we negatively judge the people around us for something like materialism, we unknowingly alienate the same people who might actually care about us. If your aunt likes brand-name beauty products, does that make her any less of a good mother to your cousins? Wanting to buy nice things is something most people enjoy. I find it strange to shun people for having goals, standards and things they want to do. Everything in the society we have made costs money.
   I can see the other side of the argument, however. As with everything else in the world, things can be taken to an excessive degree. That same aunt, perhaps she would rather buy herself brand-name makeup than save up for her daughter's college funds. There are people who ask for donations online constantly without much of a reason to give, then the next day they share pictures of a freshly done tattoo. I can see this as being a problem, and I honestly would make judgements myself. But at the end of the day, people are free to do with their money as they see fit.
   Materialism, with excess, can be something to criticize. However, the people behind the money often have their own reasons for buying the things they do. Whether it be for repairing mental health or simply wanting to dote on a significant other. I don't think anyone is exempt from criticism, but I do think we need to reel it back and think first before accusing and berating the people around us. Let us do better with what we have been given.
