What is happiness? Do you obtain happiness from your personal goals and dreams, or do you get get it by by trying to bring it to others? In my opionin, it depends. Happiness is a complicated emotion even tho it may seem pretty straightforward and predictable, but I dont think thats the case.

If you believe happiness comes from acheiving your own personal goals or dreams, I ask; how do you know you'll be happy after those have been achieved? For example if your goal is to own a house, how do you know youll be happy after you achieve that essientally material object? You may think youll be happy but until you actually feel those feelings after its happened, you wont know. A house can be bought by anybody, with money. Goals are good for providing a journey full of experiences that shape people into what kind of happiness they will desire. 

Ironic it is that happiness can actually be found by not even looking for it, for your own gain, but suprsingly in attempting to bring it to others. By trying to better humanity and trying to make people happy, you find immense value, satisfaction, and a more fullfilling and quality happiness rather then pursuing ones personal gain goals. You cannot buy treasured relationships with people with money. Those bonds and connections you form with people while attempting to bring them happiness is truely priceless.

You could argue that mass amounts of money, objects, or security could bring someone happiness, and while thats true to an extent, it is just as easily taken as given. Those are all superficial things, that ultimely provide no benefit in helping humanity. If someones happiness truely layed in such non-righteous values, then they would obtain a superficial happiness. True happiness is filled with the emotions, bonds, connections, and relationships of others and always doing the righteous thing.

In conclusion, if someone believes happiness lies within material objects, they will find happiness but it will be superficial and fragile. People who find happiness in others and always do the righteous thing for humanity, will ultimetly find geniune and true happiness within themselves; regardless of possessions. People are just as likely to find happiness in others as they are with material objects, but the latter is a superficial happiness. Someone with nothing but strong relationships has a much more genuine and rightous happiness then someone in a mansion with no relationships. 


