There has been debate over whether or not people can achieve more success by cooperation or by competition. While both have merits, success by cooperation helps produce more significant and lasting accomplishments than success by competition.

The world is a large and sometimes difficult place to live in and succeed. When people cooperate with each other to achieve a goal, they get the benefit of many ideas, some they may not have come up with on their own. When a lot of people have imput into a problem or solution, there are possibilities that can be overlooked  during intense competition.  People who cooperate as a team have the benefit of  a multitude of viewpoints from that team being laid out in front of them. They can compare and contrast and together choose a viable solution. Holes or flaws can be pointed out, discussed and fixed. In addition, people working as a team will develop a sense of comraderie from having worked together to achieve a goal, and in the end will work harder to make their solution successful since they will all feel a part of it.

Success through competition means that individuals are working on their own to achieve the best result. There are possibilities to a solution that could be overlooked when one person sets his mind to a solution and doesn't consider other options that other people could provide. When one person is declared a "winner" over others, there may be resentment or even a refusal to work with the solution by those whose ideas were turned down. Cooperation could be minimal and in the long run, the solution might deteriorate. Competition could also cause some people to refrain from even participating. Fear of failure might make them think twice about pursuing something competitively, whereas working together takes away much of that burden.

Therefore, although there are merits to both ways to be successful, it seems that cooperation with others is a much better option than competition in producing the desired result and then having the follow-through to make that result become successful. 
