Competion ( and capitalism) is the law of nature.

These days, the failed economic philosophy of Marxism is all the rage on college campuses, despite the fact that Marxism has never succeeded anywhere.  Everywhere it has been tried, it fell apart because the natural laws of economics just don't work that way.  Mankind - indeed, all of nature - has always been competitive.  Like it or not, humans would not have moved out of caves and into modern cities were it not for competition and capitalism.

Much is being said about "income equality" and the number of people living in poverty.  The fact is, so-called "poor" people have never been wealthier.  The wealthiest oil baron a hundred years ago could not have bought a television, a cellphone, or even a twenty year old Toyota.   It was not "mutual cooperation" that brought about these things, or even "greedy corporations exploiting their workers."  It was simply people working hard to succeed, to be better than their competitors.  And everyone took part in the competion;  the lowliest janitor at Ford was in competition with his counterpart at General Motors, whether he realized it or not.

Look at the so-called worker's paradise in Venezuela, which used to be the bread basket of South America.  before Hugo Chavez came to power, farmers competed to grow as much food per acre as they could.  The more food they grew, the more money they earned, it was that simple.  What happened when the socialists came to power?  Limits were placed on how much farmers could be paid.  So, farmers placed limits on how much food they grew - after all, it costs money to grow food.  Walk into a Venezuelan grocery storetoday and see the result of "cooperation."

In Cuba, monthly wages are limited to $20 a month (that cap, of course, doesn't apply to the island's rulers).  Cuba used to produce the best cigars in the world.  But for $20 a month, what incentive is there for cigar producers to experiment with different tobaccos, or different production methods?  What incentive is there to keep improving their product?  There is none, and today  the best cigars in the world are being produced in Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic.

Cooperation is great, if you want to help a friend change a tire.  but if you really want to improve yourself and everyone else, competition is the name of the game.  People just weren't built to be socialists.  
