There are many different ways to achieve success, whether it be personal or professional,  in today's world. Some people believe in competition against others, or a winner-takes-all mentality. Others, however, think that cooperation may be best at achieving long-term, significant results. Although there are pros and cons to both sides, I believe that ultimately cooperation leads people to achieve more success than they would by competition. 

I believe that cooperation among people leads to more success because our world is becoming increasingly interconnected everyday. The advances of computer and other technologies have allowed people to communicate with each other like never before. We can connect to people on the other side of the world in a brief moment. Working together with others allows people to share ideas with each other and discover new viewpoints that they had not considered before. We can all learn so much from other people and other cultures. If we live in one place and never get to experience another person's different culture, there is a possibility that our world-view will remain narrow and limited. On the other hand, if we are open to other people and their ideas, we can potentially learn something new and then apply that new knowledge to whatever we are working on at the moment. This can be something in either our personal or professional (work-related) lives. Other people can open up different avenues of thinking for us, and this can lead us to discover something that we otherwise would have no way of knowing about. 

In summary, I believe that cooperation, instead of competition, among individuals can ultimately lead to greater success. We should start seeing each other as one large, interconnected, global family. Individuals should not be narrow-minded and only think about their own successes as if they live inside a bubble. One person's success can easily lead to other people's success as well. We can inspire others and help them to achieve whatever goals they have in their lives. There is really no reason to compete intensely because one person's success can lead to many other successes down the line, if individuals have an open and sharing mindset. 
