How do you judge your own happiness?  Do you think that your happiness depends on others or can you make your own happiness by participating in life your own way?

I used to think that others could make me happy if I hung out with the right people.  Not so-I have definitely learned that I am much happier if I just concentrate on my own goals with my job and how I interact with others who are friends.  One reason is that others really have no idea how to make you happy.  Only you know for sure what makes you happy.  No one is a mind reader.  You can only make others happy by being happy yourself.  No one wants to be around someone who is not happy, so if you are happy, you are more likely to make others happy without even trying.  M y position is to definitely pay attention to the things that make you happy and then the happiness of the people you are around will follow.  I have found that if I concentrate on myself first, then I have more to give to others to make them happy.  I am not so stressed if I make myself happy first by doing my best work in my job and taking care for my pets.  I do not feel responsible for others as much when I concentrate on my work and pets.  Being happy myself brings others into a better mood when I am not complaining.  So, this is a very good argument for focusing on your own happiness before you attempt to make others happy.

Some people might say that they would rather make others happy rather than concentrating just on themselves.  How do you actually know what makes others happy? A counterargument might be that you feel better about yourself as a person if you focus on others more.  You might feel that you are a good person and not a selfish person.  If you actually feel that way, then go for it.   You might actually learn more about yourself if you focus on others.   Some people actually like to do things for others first, so if this is your idea of being more happy, then go for it.  A good place to start if you want to feel happier by making others happy is to definitely ask the person about the things that make them happy.  This is a good tip for being successful in making them happy before yourself.  You will not fail if you actually ask them about their likes and dislikes when trying to make someone else happy before yourself.  Failure is not an option if you are attempting to make happiness for another before yourself.  Happiness does not come with failure.

It works both ways when trying to be happy.  Ask yourself what makes you the most happy along with asking what makes another person happy.  Create your list for both options if you think that concentrating on your own happiness is best for you, or a list if you believe that in order for you to be happy yourself, you must concentrate on others first.  Have a  firm and concentrated list to work with in both situations for achieving happiness.  

Is it possible to combine these options of only concentrating on yourself first in your own happiness goals of concentrating on the happiness of others first?  Some people might feel that this is the best way for everyone to achieve happiness.  Put together some ideas that would work in both situations and you just might achieve happiness for everyone in your world.  Think  about the things that you have in common with others that would make all happy.  People really can be happy together if they are actually aware of the things or activities that make everyone happy.  Activities such as volunteering together makes for everyone's happiness.  Preparing a meal together makes everyone happy.  Participating in a sport together makes everyone happy.  There are a multitude of things that could work together to create happines for yourself and others  .

 
















