Materialism can be viewed as the acquisition of goods for one's self-fulfillment. Some cultures value material goods while others do not. With that said, a critical view of materialism is no less valid than any other critique of modern society. However, it is largely a pointless exercise.

Mankind does live in a physical world and coexists with material things. Some of these are necessary to maintain that existence - for example, the basic survival needs of food, water, and shelter. Materialism doesn't capture these elements, though. Instead, it refers more to a hedonistic quality. So while one can theoreticaly survive on beans and rice and water, materialism would prerhaps lean toward pleasurable eating experiences such as meat or chocolate or wine. And, while a family can shelter successfuly in a thatched hut, there is a higher level of comfort - and perhaps security - in a sturdy house.

One could believe that meeting survival needs is more than enough. But, the desire for comfort and pleasure is intrinsic in all animals, including man. If one were to observe cats in a sunlit room, no doubt the cats would seek out a sunbeam to nap in despite being able to do so elsewhere. This is simply because the sunlight brings the cat a higher level of comfort and satisfaction. Cats tend not to form societies, however, meaning that materialism - a hedonistic experience related to comfort - can be seen as separate from societal bounds.

Imagine an experiment with young human children in a room with two plates - one containing carrots, and the other containing cookies. Which plate would be emptied by the children first? Undoubtedly, the plate with the cookies. That is because the children would value the pleasurable qualities of the sweets. One could argue that children are technically members of modern society, but if so, they are marginal participants, and not exposed as strongly to the ways of the consumer.

So while there is no harm in taking a critical look at society and whether or not materialism is worthy of being criticized, it's pretty straightforward to decouple hedonistic materialism from society, thus making such arguments and criticisms moot.

