Competition versus cooperation is a very interesting topic of conversation and one that may draw plenty of healthy debate. An official position as to what is superior may not be quite so easily determined for a number of reasons. There is a time and a place for everything. 
Indeed there is something to be said about healthy competition which drives individuals to be the best they can be at something. A little research into the elusive four minute mile makes a compelling argument about competition. It had never been done before until one man finally accomplished it. Knowing it was possible, other runners soon followed up by breaking the record and we now all know it is indeed possible yet difficult. This serves as a demonstration as to how competition can be a wonderful driving force. It often promotes creativity, hard work, and (perhaps most importantly) independence. 
Cooperation, on the other hand, serves as a very interesting point of debate as well. One of the best features of being a human being is our ability to conceptualize and work together for shared goals. Nearly everything we see in our daily lives is the result of cooperation from the clothes we wear to the cars we drive. We even put a man on the moon by cooperating and working together. None of that would be possible without people cooperating with one another and we realize things as a group that human beings only a century ago would have thought to be impossible. For this reason, I would argue that cooperation is potentially the cornerstone of humanity. We are certainly stronger together than we could ever be as mere individuals. 
The person who won a boxing title or ran the first four minute mile will be remembered for doing great things, perhaps even legendary things. However, the group that shifted the balance and altered the history of the world will truly produce a long lasting impact. That is why, in my opinion, cooperation is a better way to achieve success than competition. That is not to discount the impact of competition either. It is important to note that we landed on the moon because of the "Space race". That serves as an important example. Ultimately we must compartmentalize just why we do the things we do and what drives us to do them. Healthy competition mixed with strong, competent cooperation can yield fascinating and incredible accomplishments. However, cooperation does not always need competition in order for it to outweigh its importance on significant accomplishments. 
