     So people love things. People love to have things, people love to get things, people love to think about the next thing they want to get. Materialism. An obsession with material goods, objects, possessions, that it often said to define (or at least play a central role) in our modern Western civilization. Throughout the last century this social phenomena has recieved a lot of scrutiny, and been the subject of many essays and books and debates. It has been examined by many smart people who have many insightful things to say on the topic. I am not one of these people. But maybe hear me out for a second anyway. I can't tell you whether or not materialism is good or bad, but maybe I can direct the conversation in a helpful way.
     Being a critic is cheap. It is easy, and people lap it up. Being critical is absolutely important work, but it is perhaps not always the most important work, at least in situations where the subject of criticism is a routine whipping boy in popular conversation. In my experience, "materialism" is routinely the subject of scorn and blamed for many evils of our society. It is said to make us a vapid, insincere, incourious and naive people by substiting a truly lived life full of experiences and intellectual or spiritual fulfillment, with one of pursuing base instinctual desired baked deep in our simple monkey brains. And like, I get it. I really do. That sounds sensible enough to me. We're on the same page there I guess. 
     However, speaking for myself here, I am kind of done hearing this. This sort of critique of materialism is everywhere to anyone who is half paying attention. It may even be easier to find a critique of materialism than almost any other niche esoteric topic, and probably even a lot of topics that aren't niche or esoteric. This isn't to say that materialism isn't worthy of discussion, or even that is should be discussed less -- I just feel that it would be a better use of your energy and our time if, rather than adding your voice to the choir of "materialism bad", time were spent advocating, seriously pushing the merits of, actually demonstrating a livable, non-material life. 
     I'm done hearing materialism is bad. I've heard that my whole life. But I don't know how else to live my life in a way that brings me happiness, and I'm a bit busy and a lot stupid when it comes to figuring out how I'm supposed to do the whole "not materialism" thing. Help me do that. Show me that. If you care enough to write at length about the evils of materialism, help make me want to enthusiaticly persue something else.
