Good parents are some of the most selfless people around. They are also some of the most stressed people around. If they are a good parent then they are heavily invested in their child's wellbeing. They inevitably spend a lot of their time worrying about getting their children in the right activities, to those activities, how their children are doing in school and with friends, and so on. The list is literally endless. Good parents want their children to be happy. However, they are also expected to balance all of this with a career that is fulfilling and that they are succesful at so they can provide for their children and meet personal career goals. But what is the one thing that can make any good parent miserable? Their career may be a bummer if it's not going well, but it really isn't their career. It would be if their children are unhappy. They can be the most succesful person in their job, but if their children are unhappy then they will be, almost always, be miserable. This is just one example, but it is a very fitting one to illustrate how people are more likely to be happy if they direct their attention and efforts to the happiness of others rather then themselves.

Sure, not all people are parents. And not all parents are good parents. But because of the nature of human beings, pretty much every person on the planet has people around them that they care about and that care about them. It is hard to be happy if the people around you are miserable. Therefore, the best way to pursue happiness is to make the people around you happy. Pursuing happiness for those around you also gives you a sense of purpose. Without a sense of purpose in life people are almost always unhappy. What better way then to help others be happy, and, in turn, make yourself happy as well? Another reason that it is better to pursue the happiness of others to make yourself happy is that selfish people are almost always unhappy when it comes down to it. There are a few reasons for this. Some people will say that the only way to find happiness is to puruse personal goals. Sure, these people may seem happy if they have money, career success, and fancy things. However, it is very hard to be friends with or care about incredibly self-centered folks. These people think they will find happiness by pursuing goals that only impact them. By doing this they often times sacrifice meaningful relationships. Again, humans are social beings. Humans need other humans around them to build meaningful relationships with. If a person is only focused on themselves then they will not have this and, most likely, will be thoroughly unhappy no matter what personal goals they achieve.

Many people believe that you are the only one that can make you happy, so therefore you should pursue your own goals and find your happiness in that. There are many flaws in this arguement. From the previous paragraph we know that a person who behaves like this will lack meaningful relationships. Additionally, there is a problem in our culture that one can never seem to achieve enough. One can never earn enough money, get enough power, have a nice enough house, drive a nice enough car, have enough gadgets, and so on, to truly feel happy. Our culture has a contentment problem. So if a person is only trying to reach their own goals to be happy, then the chance that they will ever achieve enough in whatever their goal is, is slim to none. This will lead to the person being chronically disappointed and unhappy. Expecting to find happiness solely by pursuing your own goals is a not a good game plan.

People who focus solely on themselves and their goals almost always end up miserable in the end. Looking at the parent example again we can imagine a not so good parent who only cared about their own happiness and not that of their child. That child will grow up to either be the same way or to realize the lack of care their parent displayed towards them and return it to that parent in the child's own adult years. Inevitably, that parent will end up miserable eventually and will regret only pursuing their own happiness. Making people around you happy is the best way to ensure your own personal happiness.
