Modern society most definitly needs to be criticized for being materialistic.  The world we function in thrives on having "stuff".  Society citizens keep up to date with the latest and greatest of so many forms of material items. Stop and think of all the items that you upgraded or bought in the last year to stay up to date.  Shocking when you think about it, right?
Material items make up so much of the world. We need to have the newest clothing styles, newest vehicles, newest shoes, biggest houses.  As a society we compare success based on what material items you and I may have.  Judging success in life is looking at what items of material someone has.  Our biggest business thrive on making the newest items and upgrading to keep this cycle going. 

Stop and think.  Look around. Do you have the same clothes that you had years ago or even months ago?  Brand new clothes clean and washed may be okay to wear but not based on society standards.  Has to be trendy, right?  How long do you keep a car for?  We make sure that we buy new vehicles, even when our current vehicle is doing quite fine.  Cell phones upgrade models every year if not more and here we are qucikly changing to the newest model even when our phone is fine because we need to say, "I have the new I-phone". We often hear the motto "keeping up with the Jones's" because that is what we do.  We need to make sure we have what the next person has or even one up them.  Cmon you know it is true.  Businesses thrive on constantly upgrading the same items but differntly so we can say they are "bigger", "quicker", "trendier".  These business soar because they keep producing and we keep demanding.  

Others would say that society is not responsible that it is an individual attitude. Individuals are not forced to upgrade, change or judge.  Individuals are responsibe for themselves.  So does that mean most if not all of us are responsible for this behavior?  Others would say it is a good thing because this is making the economy soar and more businesses develop.  

Many years ago life was much simpler. Happiness came from within. People did not need to focus on material things.  So is it really the people that are to blame or is socisty as a whole.  Society as a whole has changed.  We want more and more and more and are never satisfied.  We need to stop and reflect more and realize that there is so much more to life than material.  We need to change the world from being a materialistic society.
