Imagine yourself at the mall. You intended to only spend $20 at your favorite store. You park the car and enter the mall. While walking through the mall toward your destination, you're stopped dead in your tracks. There it is! Staring at you like a beacon of light. If your memory serves correctly, it almost had a halo on it! Time stopped. What is this powerful, captivating force being described? The new iPhone 25.

You nearly walked inside the Apple store against your better judgment. Plus, you only wanted to spend $20 so you decided your old flip phone was enough. But on your drive home from the mall, your mind wandered. "Did I make the right decision? Or am I just being materialistic?" What a thought-provoking question! Is it materialistic to want more? While pondering that idea, what's happening in your subconcious is an internal debate regarding whether or not you're being too materialistic. Zooming out, this idea begs another question: Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic?

Many believe materialism leads to negative consequences. For example, if someone is so materialistic to the point that they max out credit cards, that certainly deserves a second look. Every human will eventually have to evaluate his or her own unique relationship with the materialistic aspects of the world we live in. In some ways, our world was designed for materialism to thrive. Is this by design? Some may argue materialism is done by corporate design. Conversely, others argue materialism serves a necessary function for humanity's survival.

I don't believe modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic. Sure, it's easy to criticize materialism in the current age of Instagram and social media. However, materialism serves a purpose in human existance. Our desire for items, such as the eventual iPhone 25, pushes humans to find motivation in order to obtain and invent. While critics might suggest having the new iPhone 25 isn't necessary, others can say this materialistic item is necessary in order to advance technology for future generations. If nobody bought anything whenever emotional discomfort of materailism arose, what would that mean for our species? Would our innovation as humans stop if we all collectively ceased all materialistic wishes and desires? In essence, that may leave us back at stage one in the cave with our ancestors trying to invent the wheel. Was the caveman materialistic for wanting to accumulate wheels? Perhaps he even had critics as his cave became filled with his invention that would eventually change the world.

In conclusion, modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. This basic urge for advancement in our material possessions is shared by so many humans because it's necessary for our survival. Materialism can be used for negative purposes, like social media validation. On the other hand, materialism can also be used to advance society for the ultimate greater good. In my opinion, materialism will be like "survival of the fittest" - using materialism for vanity won't last. Instead, materialism will thrive in the way it was intended to by nature. One day, our modern society won't be so modern. History won't remember this era for materialism because materialism will always be present as long as humans exist. Therefore, let's focus on cultivating a healthy relationship with materialism while supporting others to do the same.
