The pursuit of happiness is a phrase many are familiar with, but many spend their time on the pursuit and less on achieving the happiness. There is disagreement on what is important to focus on to obtain this, and it boils down to a binary set of ideas. The first is that one's persoanl goals are the key to being happy. The other idea is one that suggests aiming at the happiness of others lets you find your own along the way. While both are moving concepts, I believe that setting and aiming to accomplish your own personal goals is a much more effective way to be happy.

When one sets their own personal goals, they have more influence over their actions and life. This focus is a motivating force, and when those goals are acheived, happiness is sure to follow. Think of any sports star that dreamt about making it to the big leagues as a kid. Most would quite likely say that they are happy now that they fulfilled the dreams that once occupied their young minds. There's also less glamorous, but equally fulfilling dreams people have, like owning a farm, becoming an astronomer, or visitng a place special to them. Some of these ideas, amongst many others, are those that have been desired by nearly every child and adult at some point in their lives. They leave one with the fulfillment of their dream, which is undeniably linked with happiness. 

On the contrary, some people believe that this is ineffective, and that one should focus on the happiness of others. The proponents of this thought would argue that worrying only about one's personal goals is selfish and can leave others down and unable to achieve theirs. However, I would argue that this can leave one's own desires lacking. Focusing too much on others can make one lose their sense of self-worth, which can leave them with regret and has a large impact on happiness. Additionally, I believe that focusing on other's happiness itself can be a personal goal, and one many people share. There are numerous people in the world who take joy in helping others acheive their dreams, whether through social programs, charity work, or simply being a good friend. It is not the case that they are not focused on their own happiness, but rather than others happiness is the goal that makes them happy. I believe this, in combination with other personal goals, is the best way to be happy.

In conclusion, I think that focusing on personal goals, whether that is a career, an accomplishment, or simply an experience, is the most effective way to increase the likelihood of being happy. Attempting to focus solely on others happiness and not your own can backfire, leaving one feel unfilled and that they did not accomplish what they wanted. Also, being someone who helps others can, in its own right, be a personal goal that is fulfilling, and that self-fulfillment is a key to happiness. Thus, if one wants to do what they can to ensure they have a happy life, they should seek out their dreams and goals with determination.

