Happiness is often how people see the end goal of their lives in one way or another. We all persue happiness, unconsiciously or not, but that pursuit is something many have thought about and have their own opinions on. One might think, and it is indeed a popular opinion that, happiness comes from within and that the pursuit involves only focusing on one's personal goals before their own, but it is indeed the focus on happiness of others that can confer true happiness to the individual.

The happiness of others is paramount to building the happiness of ourselves. We are social creatures. From a young age, making someone sad can confer a feeling of sadness from the individual that made them, or even as an unrelated third party. A kid who sees her friend cry will know that something is wrong. This stays throughout our lives, from our relationships to our friends to our family to even complete strangers. The opposite is true as well. Few are explicit about this fact but it is self-evident in the words we say to our boyfriends and girlfriends, our sisters and brothers, our mothers and fathers. 

Like a chemical bond being broken, it can take immense energy to break bonds between people, and breaking these bonds tend to leave people in a less stable state. These bonds make us happy. Helping a friend with a project or when they're in a tight spot can strengthen bonds, and can and often lead to many people's happiest moments of their lives. Even through adversity, those struggles can be overlooked or made not really matter in the grand scheme of things, something you don't get if you only focus on personal goals.

A common argument is that you need to love yourself before you can love others. A popular saying to be true, but one completely devoid of any meaning or argumentative substance. The argument they make is that you cannot depend on others for your happiness but anyone who has ever shared half of their cookie in preschool or their love as an adult knows that the happiness that we obtain from being nice and helping others is an ectasy that is unmatched by any feeling. While it is true that focusing on personal goals can provide a bedrock of stability, they provide stability but do not innately provide happiness itself.

Personal goals also tend to be ones of vanity. For example, focusing on money does nothing. Sure you can buy so-called "unhappiness-deterrent" with expensive items and luxuries, but you do not get to keep your penthouse apartment when you're dead. While you may not get to meet others after you're dead either, it can lead to a more fulfilling, less lonely, less empty, deathbed when the grim reaper does eventually make his fateful visit. Fun is not happiness and while relaxation can make someone feel the technical chemical nature of "happy," it does not make them happy happy.

In the end, being happy is a complex and difficult thing, something your ancestors have tried to unlock the nature of, and our children will still continue to look for. Looking for it in others is the most logical place to look and while working on personal goals can provide a foundation for stability in finances and areas of life, being happy is not strictly about numbers on a screen or items on a to do list.
