Throughout any given day, we are bombarded with advertisements, e-mails, carefully crafted social media posts, the 24-hour news cycle and more. These advertisements and messages all allude to the same thing: we are not good enough as we are. We need to look better, strive better, be richer, and hold the envy of those around us. These images and impressions, nothing more than fantasy, influence us on a daily basis. Whether it be through our purchasing choices, our feelings of unworthiness or envy, or how we judge others, the images we witness become buried in our subconcious and like good students, we behave accordingly. 

On an evolutionary basis, our subconcious bias towards the appearance of things makes perfect sense. Our ancestors frequently had to make snap-bang decisions based on what they saw with their eyes alone. Safety was paramount, and that instinctual act of judgement has allowed us to thrive in less than friendly environments. We are, in essence, hard-wired to be influenced by image because it ensured our survival. Even in modern times, we can still sense if someone may be a threat or one to be envied based on appearance alone. Conversely, however, we also see qualities we would want for ourselves to stand tall in the social pecking order and subsequently judge ourselves, our peers and our leaders accordingly. 

An argument can be made that since entering the Age of Reason, our awe from shiny facades and veneers of success should be kept in check. Logically, we know other people are flawed and less than perfect, just like us. This is of course possible, but the struggle to overcome our hardwired evolutionary survival takes effort. This effort can be quickly exhausted by the sheer amount of deceptive advertising or societal expectations of success we receive on a daily basis but it is a battle all of us have to fight so we may not only be compassionate to others, but also compassionate to ourselves. 

Our biases are deeply ingrained, and unless we receive a respite to breath and contemplate our true values away from the images and impressions we receive, we will continue repeating the same image-obsessed inner battle. Leaving an image-conscious value system behind in favor of one where we understand each other as complex creatures will encourage a healthier society for everyone. We can both be kinder to ourselves and abandon the need to perform to and put our best false selves forward. This is an authentic life. A deeper life. A life where we can appreciate each other as we are, and not who we wish each other to be. 


