There are many modes of furthering ideas in dialogue with others, but most ways of thinking about this can be boiled down to cooperation and competition. Cooperation is the act of working alongside others towards a common goal. Competition is the pursuit of personal achievement over others. Both of them can theoretically result in the furtherment of goals, but cooperation, in my opinion, stands above competition as the superior way to achieve goals and to structure society. This is because of the stifling, zero-sum nature of competition when put into practice, and the freeing nature of cooperation when used in a similar fashion. 

Cooperation is the key to how we structure our societies, our academic institutions, and our healthiest workplaces. It limits divisiveness and promotes diversity of opinion, because no opinion is struck down out of a perceived rivalry. Workplaces with more cooperation than competition, where hierarchies and flattened and workers feel camaraderie with each other tend to produce happier, more efficient workers. Unionized workplaces benefit everyone involved by giving everyone a cooperative say in what happens. 

Competition, on paper, seems like it would produce the most efficient result, creating a winner and a loser in the "marketplace of ideas." However, we have seen in practice that this competition does not create the best ideas. When left unchecked, it creates monopolies, bad ideas that have outcompeted good ideas. This is because Societal structures are not even in the way that would be necessary for competition to be healthy and productive. Looking at societies that flatten their hierarchies and eshew competition, we see happier, more productive people. In this way, cooperation is a foil to competition.

Some might argue that competition can cause people to "avoid failure," though that seems like shortsightedness. People avoid failure in general; they don't like the fail. A system that punishes people for failing is punishing people who are already punishing themselves, through embarassment or disappointment. People are members of a society, that is impetus enough for them to cooperate. The idea, especially in capitalist modes, that punishment encourages hard work is fallacious. There is no need for people to starve or become homeless  because they have failed to adquately compete. Those might seem like extreme examples, but they are the fact of society. The reason there are homeless people is because there is a housing market that they cannot compete in. The reason there is starvation is because there is a competitive aspect to food acquisition. There reason there is a lack of access to healthcare is because there is a competitive component of the insurance and medical system that gatekeeps people who have failed to afford it. These are the result of competition and these shortcomings of our society are bad on their face. Hardly anyone would say that they are good things, but most might not see the underlying thread that ties them all together. 

Even in situations that seem like they are competitive, the real work is being done through cooperation. Speedrunning is a hobby in which people strive to play a video game as fast as possible, most commonly by beating the video game through whatever means they can. There are leaderboards for the top times, so one might assume that these people are competing with each other. However, a look into the communities that create this hobby show something much different. We see "competitors" publishing the tricks that made their speedrun time faster than others, when they could have hidden them to gain a competitive advantage. We see people who don't try to run the game in full at all, and instead stick to "hunting" the tricks and glitches that other players use to improve their runs. It isn't a competition between players at all, except in the most superficial sense that there are people with better times than others. It is a cooperation between players. If there is any competition, it is competition between the player and themselves, which isn't "competition" in the way that a capitalist mode of production would necessarily entail. World record times in these speedrunning games have been optimized massively in the last few years. In Super Mario Brothers, for example, the top time is only a few tenths of a second slower than the most perfectly optimised computer simulation. This would not have been possible if players were hiding strategies from one-another. It is only possible through cooperation. Instead of a dozen dull swords honed once, it is a sharp sword, honed over and over again. It is creative minds and then the people who stand on their shoulders for a better view, then the people who stand on their shoulders, and so on. It is standing on the shoulders of our predecessors that we can truly succeed in progress.

Competition is drilled into us by a society that transactionalizes all forms of interaction-- be those literal transactions involving goods, services, and currencies, but also "social capital," the amount of influence that our own ideas have on the world around us. In this way, we cannot escape competition even when we don't realize that we are competing, which is easily alienating, especially to those who are "failing" in this sense. Life is portrayed as a zero sum game: there are winners and there are losers and there is nothing to be done about this sort of arrangement. This is a failure in imagination. There are different types of society that are possible and the ones that we live in are extremely new, from an anthropological standpoint. With this perspective, we can more easily imagine a world that isn't like our own, that we can improve with a focus on cooperation. 

The example of the speedrunner cooperating with his peers and competing with himself might provide an interesting dialectic that rectifies these two dichotomous ideals. Competition is the thesis, cooperation is the antithesis, and the mindset embodied by the speedrunner-- one in which he is cooperative and competitive-- is the synthesis. That is not to say that it is the medium position between the two, it is simply one that incorporates both ideas. In my opinion, this example weighs more heavily into the cooperative aspect and that is its key strength. A cooperation where everyone is happy to see the "competitive" progress of their peers, not the cutthroat competition of capital.

When viewed through this lens, cooperation is the obvious standout for how to structure a productive group or society. It overcomes the obstacles that limit competition and does so in a way that increases productivity and happiness for those involved. It grants us the imagination to envision a better world and gives us the hands of ourselves and our neighbors to get it done. 


