        People buy things with "NEW!"  much more than the normal packaging. This is because your mind things that if something is new, it's automatically better. The same thing happens with updated branding icluding brighter colors and famous people. This isn't noticed by a lot of people, and it affects the way we look at purchasing things.   
     I believe images have a large effect on people's viewpoints and how they make decisions. I learned a lot about propaganda in a section in Grade 2, and it has stuck by me for a very long time, as I am now 38. I believe, especially in products and politics, that packaging, whether literal or figurative, changes peoples direction of thinking far too often. People will end up going with politicians because of what they say, not what they do. Also, people will buy things with bright packaging or because "everyone else is getting it," without really deciding if they like it, or they just want to be seen with it.
     I also know of a lot of very popular actors, actresses, and singers that may look pretty or have a gimmick, but have little or no talent. This happens so much more than it used to, in my opinion. This is because of social media, millenial urges to like whatever is trending, and shallow opinions on outer beauty. Take Steve Buscemi. Awesome actor, not easy on the eyes. I can't come up with an up and coming actor or actress these days that is talented but not pretty or handsome. Come to think of it, I feel the same way about singers. I can't think of a new singer or rapper (other than Benny Blanco) who is unnatractive. I think we may be skipping over really talented people because of this.   
      Some people may say that they look into these things, but I think that we as humans tend to try to believe what we see initially rather than going off our own experiences. I know a lot of times I will stop myself and be self-aware that I am picking food or drinks not because I think it's what I'll like best, but because the label is pretty or new. Some of these times I like the product I choose, and sometimes I wish I would have gone with the more dull packaging of the product I know I like. People who are more self aware of this will think about what they want, not what the packaging looks like. 
     In conclusion, I think we, as humans, will buy things on impulse and are swayed by the pretty packaging, design or colors. LaCroix is a great example. It tastes like static, but some people buy it so they can be seen with it, fewer because of the taste. Thank you for coming to my TED talk.
      
