How much of our opinions and feelings about any given topic are based on fact?  On reality?  Can fancy packaging or clever marketing alter our perception so much that we form opinions that are contradictory to reality?  Indeed, we as humans are too inclined to jump to conclusions based on our feeling of how something is presented, or the context by which we come across it, than by actual fact or research.  Images and impressions have too much affect on us.

Advertising is a multi-billion dollar industry that is geared soley around influencing impressions and feelings.  There is real money to be made through maniuplation of consumers.  If it were true that humans made rational decisions based soley on factual evidence, such an industry wouldn't be able to sink its teeth in our society and produce such profits.

Dating apps, such as Tinder, are geared toward matching people together based off a single impressison, one photo, that the user may look at for less than a second.  Can one really find their match with so little to go on?  The success of these apps would suggest that we certainly try.  Even with something so important as finding a compatible partner, we defer to quick visual critique.

It has been shown in the wine industry that bottles of wine with ornate labels feauturing dynamic designs are more likely to be chosen than those featuring a plain label.  Even though wines with an otherwise boring lable (an unassuming monotone drawing of a winery, for example) can be greater quality.  The saying "never judge a book by its cover" applies so well to this case.

"Shrinkflation" is a term used to describe a tactic used by companies during the 2022 inflationary period.  Rather than increase the prices of their products, some manufactures are saving money by making them slightly smaller.  That King Sized candy bar may not be as King Sized as it was a year ago!  This is a successful tactic because we aren't wired to scrutinize the size of products we've been purchasing for years.  Our perception as that our candy bar is a constant size, when the reality is we are purchasing less product for the same amount of money.

The most dangerous example may be the wideheald opinion that the results of the 2020 US Presidential Election were not legitimate.  That the vote was stolen and the incorrect candidate assumed the role of President of the United States.  Even after years of review and investigation, where it is widely known that voter fraud did not occur, there are still those that trust what they were presented--what had been advertised to them by a clever salesman--than believe in well accepted fact.  This truely shows how our over-reliance on imagery can have drastic consequences to tradition as well regarded as American Democracy.

Although quantum physics itself suggests that the very act of observing something alters its properties, so could it be there is not objective fact at all?  Is it true that advertising or packaging IS in fact the reality?  Objectively, this is not correct.  It is easy to see that the hamburger shown in a McDonalds ad does not look nearly as juicy or appetizing when pulled out of the bag from the drive through.  No amount of suspending disbelief in an objective reality could equate the two.  Indeed, we are far too trusting of what is presented to us, even when we may know the reality is something quite different.

Knowing our susceptibility to marketing and imagery may be the first step in moving past it; taking a little extra effort, and discovering a deeper truth.  The benefits of doing a little more research could range as widely as upholding democracy to simply enjoying a more delicious glass of wine!
