It is a well-known saying that "you should never judge a book by its cover." However, in the modern world, it seems like all we are concerned with are the covers. Nowadays the human race is way too infatuated with the idea of how things appear. There is a major problem with being obssessed with how you look/how you make an impression. This is because typically a person's character is worth way more than how they look.
As stated previously, typically a person's character is going to be the best judge of them, not how they look. A good example of this is when you look at the OJ Simpson case; he was going to be The Terminator but no one could see him killing anyone due to the fact that he's "too nice"...but he literally did kill his girlfriend/whomever it was, I don't have much knowledge on that case. Another example would be the Amber Heard/Johnny Depp situation. There's a recording of Amber saying something along the lines of "yeah the world will believe that you, a man, has been harassed". This is very obviously a major problem in the world today, as the general consensus is that because women look pretty and have boobs, they cannot be mean. 
There is a point to be made for the idea that many people do care about images/impressions, and if that's the case we all should just follow suit. However, this is a terrible idea because following the things that look good is exactly why we are in the situation we are in now with basically every country being screwed. As I mentioned, the quality of someone's character is worth so much more than how they look. It is up to the young people of today to raise their children with the idea that you should not compare looks and instead value how good people can be.
To wrap it up, there has always been a problem with people being obssesed with how things look and that has way too big of an impact on everyone. Like stated previously, there are many court cases that kind of show this to the world. Hopefully we as a human race can rid the cancer of comparison from ourselves. Because at the end of the day, the best things aren't the things that look good but the things that work how they're supposed to.
