Certainly, there are some among us who loathe shopping, who consider new possessions and collections of things to be nothing more than pointless clutter, extraneous items that aren't necessary to a good life. But there are many, many among us who find joy in producing things that others will purchase and keep and use -- not to mention acquiring things for themselves or giving them to others.

It's understandable that shopping as a sport or hobby would be a point of concern in our society. It seems to not require development of a skill, dedication to a task, or working toward a goal, all of which are considered qualities to which a member of society should aspire. But there can be a sense of pride associated with these things, as well as development of skills -- they're just not ones people are accustomed to thinking about. 

For example, consider the parent who learns about budgeting, sales cycles, coupons, and other methods to save money so they can provide their family with not only things they need to survive (like food, housing, and clothing) but things that help them be productive members of society, like sports equipment, computers, books, a car to use as transport to a job or volunteer gig, and more. In this situation, motivation toward acquisition can be a positive thing and can serve as a way to participating in materialism in a more beneficial manner. 

Of course, the specter of overflowing landfills and debris-clogged waterways serves as a dramatic testament to the potential downsides of materialism. If people spend and spend, acquire and acquire, without any thought to objects' utility, massive waste is going to result -- and it has resulted, to be sure, in the form of climate change, animals' extinction, and other adverse affects on our larger natural world. 

However, as with anything in life, materialism requires balance and consideration. If purchasing and owning things brings someone joy or helps a family improve its lot in life, as long as this behavior doesn't harm others, it is not worthy of criticism. Maintaining a healthy relationship with things, how we use them, and how to responsibly pass them on or discard of them is something that's achieveable and worth working toward.

But if materialism is engaged in with carelessness and disregard for fellow creatures -- whether of the human, animal, or plant variety -- or for our earth, well, yes: a society that encourages such waste and disregard should be criticized. Factories that harm workers in the pursuit of making cheap goods that will quickly break and be discarded are not good for modern society. Pollution and harm to the environment is a threat to modern society. And a society that doesn't consider the downsides of any aspect of modern life, including materialism, is not one that is properly caring for its citizens and their home.

After all, materialism does not exist in a vacuum. The answer to the question of whether modern society's relationship with consumption should be criticized is one that requires nuanced consideration of intent, context, and consequences for now and for the future. With careful consideration for and attention to the results of choices made regarding consumption, it is possible for materialism to be a force for, if not good, at least no ill effect on our modern society.

