In my personal experience focusing on personal goals leads in general to more happiness than forcusing on the happiness of others. I believe that being a little selfish and more interested in your own gains will in the long run lead to a happier outcome over all. That doesn't mean you stop caring for others. It just means prioitizing youself over others first.

If you focus on your own goals and happiness you get to the point where it's easier to share your benefits with others. For example if you decide to focus on acheiveing a dream of a specfic job or staring your own company. You work on this and make it come true and this success leads to your happiness. You become successful and you can get the things you've always wanted. This in turn makes it easier to give back to others that supported you while you were going through this process. For example pay off the personal loan that you borrowed for someone willing to back you. Or donate to charity so they can make it possible for someone else to benefit. 

I do understand that some people would consider this selfish and that there are plenty of people in the world that are happier when they put others before them and provide them with what they need to be happy. Some people are happier if they focus on others because they get joy from helping that person or group get a helping hand in life. But how do you keep that up when all you do is give and no one gives back. Eventually your good will ends up hurting you. When you have nothing left to give are you ever going to be happy?

In a perfect world if everyone gave back for the help they recieved from others it would be nice to be able to focus on someone else, but this isn't a perfect world. This is a world that if you aren't careful and watch out for your own you'll be chewed up and spit out by the cruel world out there. There are plenty of people that take advantage of people kindness. So yes I will focus on my own happiness first before others because then I can be sure that I don't go without, before I can help others. 


