In my own experience in life, I have chased happiness. As a teen, I chased it through my own goals, seeking to discover what I wanted to achieve and be in my future. In my 20s I found happiness in being in love with someone special and the bonds we had that made our pairing unique. Both of us were on a mission to be better people than the places we came from, believing that happiness comes the feeling one must have by being looked up to rather than down at. In my 30s, I learned the true definition of love when I gave birth  to my daughter. The depndency on me, it made me feel important, needed, special, in love and oh so blessed. When I turned 40, I looked back and remember that I had cursed myself when I was younger and I thought that I was going to die. I was lost and more unhappy than I had ever been. But then a light bulb went off as I had to save myself if I really wanted to survive. I discovered a bliss. 

Bliss is a place of "natural" happiness. What we think happiness is really is not. The happiness we chase is not real. When we seek to be happy, it is only only a temporary feeling, like sadness, or humorous, or feeling bored. It's not lasting. We can do things for ourselves and others that will give us a boost of endorphins that will make us feel a temporary feeling of happiness, but when it wears off we are emotionally idle once again. 
 
People are not more likely to be happy by focusing on personal goals over making others happy. Trying to find happiness in one over the other creates an imbalance in the emotions. When all of your focus is on yourself, then you behin to feel like there is something missing, like you need more purpose out in the world. But, if you put all of your focus on others' happiness, then you feel left out and maybe a little selfish as if there is no love and care left for the self. So how do you figure out what is right? What gives one the best path at finding a life of happiness?

I believe that the balance is 50/50. You have to take care of yourself first, Love yourself. When you wake up, work on self... feel and express gratitude for at least 3 things every morning. Repeat over and over "I am Happy" for 5-10 minutes, and meditate. You gotta find that bliss of no-thing. 

Once you have taken your self-care, go out into the world with a smile and then focus on and care of others,  and express genuine gratitude for everything and everyone. Life is a circle and happiness is contagious, even if it's temporary. So is everything else.
