Materialism has appeared to become a common, and accepted aspect of modern life. We see it on our TV's as we watch our favorite shows glamorizing the luxurious lives of celebrities. We hear it in our music. Who hasn't caught themselves humming or singing along to the catchy tune "Material Girl" by Madonna? Social media accounts are flooded with images and videos capturing the seemingly happy smiles of strangers basking in a world of possessions and apparent wealth. We are surrounded by materialism on a daily basis, yet it is often criticized because it can viewed as greedy or surface level happiness. Modern society should not be criticized for being too materialistic because there are far greater faults within our world compared to materialism.

One reason we should not criticize materialism is because we as human beings are creatures of habit. We learn through observation of others. We also learn based off of the environment we are in. As previously mentioned, the celebrities in our world thrive off of the happiness gained from spending money or material possessions. If we are consuming this type of media, it would make sense that we begin to value this as a society. The fault lies within those in places of power. It should be their responsibility to set the standard. 

Another reason materialism should not be criticized is because there are plenty of other more relevant social issues that need attention. In the United States, race relations and equality are major areas of concern. Instead of placing the focus on materialism, our society should be shining a light on the problems that are in emergent need.

Finally, as long it is not bringing harm to another person or creating a dangerous environment, we shouldn't judge others for where they find happiness the most. Is materialism a wise option? For most, no, but how we choose to seek happiness is a personal preference.

Although materialism is leading to overconsumption and often times wastefulness, it is not the biggest concern we have on our plate at the moment. There are other areas of greater need that deserve our effort in battling. Rather than judging others for their materialistic ways, we should think about how we can bring the world true happiness and justice. 
