Are you materialistic? I know I am and most people I know are too. Just to be clear I'd like to explain my definition of materialism. Materialism is the desire to spend time, effort and money with the goal of buying as much stuff as you want, even if you don't need it. It covers both the things you need as well as what you want. For example, you definitely need to purchase food to survive, but you instead of a chicken breast, rice and vegetables, tou might be typically inclines to but steak, lobster, and other expensive foods to complete your meal. You could get by on the more modest meal; but, you prefer to eat more extravagantly. The same holds for homes, cars, motorcycles, RVs, clothing, electronics and many other things in your life. If you spend more on what you have to on neccessities, and buy things you don't need, you are being materialistic.

I don't want to make a moral judgement on materialism. Whether you are materialistic or not is no ones business but you own, and you aren't a bad person no whether you are or are not materialistic. However, my position is that society should be critcized for being as materialistic as it is. Having lots of nice things is certainly wonderful and enjoyable. Being rich or well off has it's perks in that area. The problem is that most Americans are not rich or well off and for those who aren't, materialism has some serious consequences.

In my own life I've managed to purchase nice cars, a better than average home, a boat, travel, expensive electronics, and much, much more. The problem is that in doing so I had to work longer days, travel extensively for work, sometimes work two jobes, and when I was home I was tired and less able to spend quality time with my family. How is that good? It's not; in fact I felt it was terrible. Not only that, I didn't even have the time to enjoy the nice things I had. I would have been better off working less, buying less and more modest thing, and having leisure time with my  family and the ability to do more volunteering and supporting charities.

There is a flip side to the argument though. Many will say that materialism is what drives the American economy. While that's certainly true, it isn't neccesairily a good thind thing. When demand goes up, so do prices. That means we often work harder to but the things we dont need. Another reason is that if we spend too much money buying things, we may not ne able to save enough. Have things is fun but nothing will give you more comfort during try and uncertain economic times than having a large nest egg  to provide for your family until things get back to normal. People may also say that they deserve to have nice things; and they do. But if it comes at the cost of not having time to enjoy your purchases and the time to enjoy them; then what's the point. In addition, if you don't have time to enjoy your life, you certainly don't have time to voluteer to positively imact the quality of the lives of those less fortunate than yourself.

So for me, I've decided that the human side of the quality of life equation is more important to me than the "he who dies with the most toys wins" side of the argument. I've decide to scale back, kick back, and actually enjoy my life.
