Happiness is a goal that all humans are seeking throughout their lives, although not many can say they've truly achieved ultimate happiness. The question of what delivers happiness is one that has been debated for centuries. It can be said that each individual person is motivated by different achievements, based on their own personal values engrained over their lives. In this essay, I will argue that long-term, sustained happiness is more achieveable through focusing on the benefit to others, paired with a healthy balance of achievement of personal goals. 

In our daily lives, personal goals play a prominent role. People are innundated with reminders that personal goals are the key to a satisfying life. At a higher frequency, a person is exposed to the disappointing impact of not achieving a personal goal. From career goals to family goals, our society celebrates these achievements in higher volume and in ways that are increasingly public through social media platforms. This can lead a person to believe their happiness will also be gained by success in these personal areas. However, the trouble with seeking ultimate happiness through the achievement of personal success is that people wrongfully believe further happiness is within their ultimate control and can be gained through specific actions, thus, they are likely to extend their goal further and further from its original purpose. If you look at successful authors, musicians, and entreprenuers, you'll see a common pattern; people who achieve great personal success relentlessly seek to further that success, often times, at all costs. Looking to visible examples in our society, it is evident the human brain does not often accept moderate achievement as a source of ultimate happiness. However, I believe that when it comes to happiness from personal success, there is a point of diminishing returns and too much personal success can result in a disconnect between the successful person and those they surround themselves with, which in turn creates a deep unhappiness.

As an alternative to happiness gained through achievement of personal goals, a person may find that giving their time, talent and treasure toward the betterment of others' lives can be an even more effective source of happiness. Providing support and kindness to others offers a person the opportunity to feel positively about their own values and merits and satisfied in their current existence. Instead of comparing oneself to a future state, they can reflect back on who they already are and obtain tangible achievement and happiness. When seeking happiness through bettering the lives of others, there is limited opportunity for comparison to others and there are few times when a person's brain will tell them they did not achieve enough. Most agree that any kindness to others is worthwhile and one kind act can change a life. 

In today's society, it is important that happiness-seekers find a healthy balance between achieving personal goals and working toward the betterment of others' lives. Achieving personal goals will allow for fond memories over a lifetime and reduce regret; however, giving back to others will allow for a confidence in the individual themselves. In conclusion, I believe people are more likely to be happy when they focus less on unobtainable personal goals and instead focus on making life better for those around them. 
