In the eternal quest to be the best forms of ourselves, humanity as a whole has been fascinated and has researched its own behavior to see what can be improved. This means looking into our daily habits and seeing if they better, or worsen, our living experiences as a whole. Materialism is a topic that falls under the category of daily habits that people are unsure are positive or negative. Its pros and cons are tied to our emotions towards how we value our time, energy, and people in our lives. Are we spending and acquiring at a level that is counter to our values in life? Are we now, as a group, too materialistic?
Some would argue that the option to even buy or acquire things is a privilege. 100 years ago, when we were desperate to just get food on the table, having the option to pick from a thousand options of groceries, meal delivery, etc. has given us room to express our love for others (as well as ourselves) through cooking. One could also argue it has expanded our horizons to the cuisine of other cultures, and materialism in general can be argued to be a worldly enterprise: the ability to spend more and more money on travel is a luxury not afforded by our predecessors, and has led to a greater globalization that can be seen as a positive. Looking at the way Amazon as a business has grown, one would think Amazon is pro-materialism. It started as a company selling books and is now taking over entire cities and corporations. In some ways, this is very positive: more jobs come from this, the ability to have the items you need delivered to your house on the same-day, the option of having money donated to charity every time you make a purchase on something, as seen on Amazon Smile.
However, some would argue that the money we spend on things and experiences are taking us away from focusing on the things we spend money on in the first place: a sense of security, making our families happy, spending quality time doing the things, and being with the people, that we love. While materialism can get us a nice car that takes us safely from place to place, no amount of luxury can make up for the connection you have with others that requires no money. The rise in "minimalism" as a concept is proof of this: that people are seeking to live a life based more on internal happiness, versus that of external happiness and validation in the form of acquiring. Looking at the example of Amazon again, one could argue that their mission in expanding their business has led to the negative effects of increased housing prices in the cities they put headquarters in, which can lead then to an increase of poverty and a strain on social resources. That could be more of an argument against capitalism, but capitalism is nothing without materialism.
Modern society is doing what is has always done: trying to do the best with what it has, and with that comes great opportunity, and great possibility of human error. Materialism may be a great option and source of joy, while also being a big source of stress and hurt if utilized incorrectly. One could argue our society is not too materialistic, but needs to be careful in how they choose to use materialism in their daily living.
