A review of everyday life and the historical record show that people stand to gain far more from cooperation than from competition. Let's consider the vast number of benefits to humanity from civilization. These would not have been possible without robust cooperation between many people. Competition, however, has had a much more negative influence on humanity, as shown by the tremendous destructive power of wars.

For a society to function, cooperation between many individuals is necessary. We enjoy running water, electricity, tasty and nutritious food, education, roads, security, and healthcare because a variety of people decided to cooperate for the common good. These achievements reinforce one another and improve our quality of life. Oppenheimer once said, "If I have seen further than others, it is because I have stood on the shoulders of giants." These words ring true today. The scientific achievements of the modern era are possible because our predecessors decided to preserve and pass on their knowledge to succeeding generations. If one of us experiences an emergency, such as a car accident or a fire, we can count on others to render assistance thanks to the existence of cooperation. If we want to travel to another state, we can do so only because of cooperation; cooperation was necessary for people to to build the cars we use to drive, to teach us driving skills to operate those cars, and to construct and maintain the roads necessary for us to get one from one place to another. Cooperation has helped to develop alliances between countries, allowing countries to count on help from their allies in times of need. Scientific advancements do not exist in a vacuum. Often, they are the result of teams of researchers working together--sometimes across national boundaries--to solve a problem.

Some will argue that competition creates more success than cooperation. There is some truth in this argument. Competition in some instances can spur people to produce more and faster. The Space Race between the US and USSR is one such example. Competition between these two superpowers yielded rapid advancements in scientific technology, culminating in the US Apollo Program that landed men on the Moon. Competition between companies in the private sector also generates better products for consumers in many cases. Yet competition has a dark side as well. Competition over land, resources, and influence has frequently resulted in catastrophic wars and bloodshed between individuals and civilizations. The historical record reveals countless examples of civilizations becoming exterminated in part because they had resources that other civilizations desired. Competition can drain resources and distract participants from endeavors that would benefit the greater good.

On the whole, it's clear that cooperation provides greater benefits to humanity than competition. The modern world, in which people enjoy far longer and more enjoyable lives than their predecessors many centuries ago, would not have been possible without extensive cooperation across time and space. We would do well to remember how many of the comforts we enjoy today are the result of cooperation between many different people. The success of future generations will depend on us choosing cooperation over competition. 

  
