Happiness is defined as when someone has a positive outlook on what their life is and state of contentment. Many people have a different defintion of how they personally find happiness. Some people believe that they are happy because they have a lot of wealth, a good career, a stable life, having a family, etc. Some people also find happiness by commiting acts of charity and helping others who need it more than themselves. I believe that it depends on the specific person and their identification about what factors will bring them the most happiness. Everybody has different views on life and what they enjoy and everyone's definition of happiness is different. Therefore, happiness is not found by one specific way for everyone.
First off I would like to say that many people define happiness as having a lot of money and a good career. They believe that if they are financially stable and well off, that they will have more things that they want in life. They believe that if they can afford to go on more vacations or buy more things, that they will find happiness. This works for some people, but others believe that money is not everything. Some people who have a good career and money feel like they are missing out on the important things in life, such as a happy family and fulfillment from that. They may feel like they waited too long for a family or that it is no longer in their reach because of how much time they spent dedicated to building their career.
I personally believe that happiness is brought by those around you, such as family and friends. I would not trade my relationships and my family for all the money in the world. Although money is key to having things become easier in life, it is not essential to have a lot in order to be happy. I find that this gives me the most fulfillment in life and makes me feel happy. I get to share what is important in life with others and this makes me feel like life is worth living. I like to focus on the happiness of my friends and family and how I can bring more cheer and joy into their lives. I really enjoy being able to have BBQs and go to events with my family. I enjoy talking and laughing about life with them and would not know if I could find happiness without them. Now others may believe that happiness is brought by acts of charity.
For instance when people help others and do little acts of charity, they feel like they are bringing themselves good karma in the world which makes them happy. Some people find this to be of supreme importance because of the way their love language is. Some people find that acts of charity and kindness are what fills up their spiritual cup. They thrive off of helping others and knowing that they are helping humanity for the better. They feel like if they help others that they will be the happiest because they are bringing positivity to others who without charity would not have the opportunity for some happiness and comfort. They may feel guilty if the decide to have a lot of wealth or buy things because then they feel selfish because they know others do not have the basic necessities that everyone should have.
Overall, I would say that people vary in the ways that they find happiness. I personally strive on the former two ways to find happiness, such as charity and finding happiness in friends and family. I believe that for myself if you are not fulfilled by love from your family and acts of kindness, that you are missing the important things in life. I know others who are perfectly content with finding their happiness in their careers and their wealth because it allows them to have more experiences that others may not be able to afford. I know some people who do not care to have children and instead would rather focus on themselves and find happiness this way. Overall I do not think that their is a right way to find happiness or one way that is superior to the other. It all depends on the person in question and their interests as well as their desires. Happiness is purely a state of mind and everyone has different views of what state of mind works for them.
