In today's modern society, individuals acquire and own more material goods than ever before.  This has come about as a result of advances in technology that make it possible for an average individual to own such a vast quantity of goods in a cost effective manner.  Additionally, today's society puts more pressure on individuals to demonstrate their value through what material possessions they own.  More specifically, this pressure is enhanced through social media which was not around just twenty years ago.  As a result of this increase in consumerism and pressure, many individuals have criticized materialism as an undue, irresponsible, and unnecessary phenomenon.  However, if not for materialism than modern society would not have advanced to the degree it has over the past century.

Materialism is a motivating factor for the majority of individuals to work hard.  While working hard is not a guarantee of a better life it drastically increases the chances of one.  Some of the factors that directly go into a better life are materialistic in nature.  For example, a bigger house in a safe neighborhood, a reliable car, academic tutors for their children, vacations, and healthy food are just some of the things that would motivate an individual to work hard.  Therefore, if not for materialism many individuals would not be motivated to work hard and "raise their station in life."  Otherwise, what would be the point if there is not measurable way to reap the benefits of one's hardwork.

Additionally, materialism is what has motivated entrepreneurs to develop many of the technologies that allow us to enjoy the standard of life that we do today.  For example, Henry Ford made the automobile affordable for the average consumer, Bill Gates brought computers to the masses, and now Elon Musk is revolutionizing the electric car industry.  Materialism is what drives individuals to buy these products which further supports entrepreneurs and allows them to make further technological advances.  Further examples include advances in medicine, space travel, and international trade.

In conclusion, materialism is what has driven the advancement of society and continues to drive it further.  It motivates the individuals that develop new advancements and individuals that want a better life.  If not for materialism, there is no telling where society would be today.  Therefore, it's not for logically inconsistent to criticize materialism but it's to one's own detriment.  If they reap the rewards of materialism, they should not criticize it.
