          What does it mean to be successful in life? How does society define success, and how do people come to find such success? There are several schools of thought on this topic, with two avenues towards success very commonly thought of--competition and cooperation. We see examples, and the results, of cooperation and competition every day. Competition surely drives people to contend with one another for a certain prize, whether it be a bonus at work, a victory in a sporting event, or some other financial gain. Cooperation takes many people or groups working together to achieve a common goal. Although competition has long been celebrated in society, I believe that people achieve more success by cooperation. 
          Cooperation and Competition both certainly can lead to success in a variety of situations. Competition often leads to certain individuals, or an individual group benefitting from a success, while cooperation usually leads to success achieved for the greater good through working together. As previously stated, I believe that cooperation leads to people achieving more success. The first examples that come to mind when thinking of success due to cooperation are the Montreal Protocol, and more recently, the COVID-19 vaccine. The Montreal Protocol was the result of scientists from all over the world coming together to solve the crisis of the depleting ozone layer. It was found that a certain class of chemical, CFC's, commonly found in refrigerants and propellants, was leaking into the atmosphere and depleting the ozone layer, causing a hole above the south pole of the Earth. The depletion of the ozone layer had grave implications for life on earth, as it protected the earth from harmful radioactive rays from the sun. The scientists came together, and came up with a plan to eliminate the use of CFC's around the globe and stop this depletion of the ozone layer. If this is not a great example of cooperation leading to success (the entire earth benefitted from scientists cooperating!), I am not sure what is. The most recent example, at least in science, that showed how successful cooperation can be was the development of the COVID-19 vaccine. Many different scientists and pharmaceutical companies worked together (at least somewhat) to figure out the mechanisms of COVID-19 and create a vaccine to help save lives.  
          There is no doubt that competition can also lead to great success. It is arguable that competition leads to things improving over time, as the biggest, best and greatest products are the ones that people want to buy and support. An example of this is a capitalist economy. With different companies competing for a person's business, they will try to create the best product at the lowest price. Although this is arguably a very great way to achieve success, I feel that externalities are often not accounted for when measuring success through competition. What I mean by externalities are any "side effects" of the results of an interaction. For example, the externalities associated with economic competition are low wages for workers, pollution, and other environmental and socioeconomic issues. With cooperation, these types of externalities are considered rather than overlooked, since people or groups aren't racing each other looking to succeed on their own, but are rather working together to solve a problem for the greater good. 
          Although one could argue either way that competition and cooperation lead to success, I believe that cooperation leads to greater success. However, it may be at how one measures success. Cooperation often leads to success for the greater good, while competition, which can produce good results for many, is often most beneficial for the one "winner." Perhaps looking at what success is, and what sacrifices were made along the way to achieve such success is another question one should ask when looking at cooperation versus competition as methods to reach success.

