Some would say that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people, however, how much of an impact does these things have on people? Many people aren't always influenced by images and impressions, instead it is those around us and all of society that have an impact on us. If an individual says something to one individual along the lines of "today is a great day" and that individual believes them, they have been influenced and will believe today is a great day. Yet if a sign says "TODAY IS A GREAT DAY," it is much less going to be taken personally because it is a saying and it is the impression that we are going to have a great day.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Images are simply just a way that people want to try and assume that there is an effect on people, it can be due to the fact that social media likes to portray certain things to the rest of society, whether it be the way they should look or the way they should act. Images no longer have such a strong hold on these individuals who intially thought that all of this stuff was inachievable. These high standards that so many fear because they don't think they can do it is absurd, yet they end up being able to push past these feelings and emotions.
                                                                                                   
There are some individuals who would say that images and impressions do have a effect on people, why? Because it is what they think is the "right" thing to do and that's what they were "brought up to do". That's not how it works though, it is difficult to say there are things around us that aren't impressionable, yet it is all around us in life. Whether it be the social media or  just simply something they hear/ see while out one day. It is all something that will impact someone. However, once again it is wrong to assume that this would have such an impact. While I would say there is a slight impact, I don't mean it is going to drastically change someones life, they aren't going to do what they were told to do by these images they are seeing on social media. For example, most of the time there is a new diet around, and these models show these drastic changes of their body. Many people realize that the image is photoshopped and far from what reality of life actually is.An example in real life is Kim Kardasian, so many individuals wanted her body yet it was realistically a body type someone could achieve on their own. There were operations, photoshoots and so many other components that made this unrealistic. Yet so many of these individuals intially got influenced, they would get operations that would further damage their body and that wasn't a bright thing to do. 

Overall, images and impressions will have an impact on people, while it may not seem extreme like it used to be, it will still be there. It is up to the person to determine exactly how they will interterpt these impressions and images around them. They can once again, it take it with a grain of salt and not pay any attention to it because they know it isn't something they should put their time towards. Or they will completely do the opposite and think this is the proper way to go through life and believe this is the most important aspect of it all. So, instead of allowing these images and other bits of media continue to influence everyones life, we should work together and build each other up and constantly support one through the tough times that are to come. 
