People with depression can sometimes have suicidal ideation, because when you are depressed, you don't think you will ever be happy again. Depression is not a permanent state. Happiness cannot be a permanent state either. 

Happiness is a fleeting feeling. It is delight, contentedness, surprise, or peace. One person could be happiest alone at the beach, another in the cold, having snowball fights with their family. Happiness can be momentary or last a while, but it cannot be constant. If it was constant, the word sadness would have no meaning.

I have a friend who focuses only on his career, and every step up the corporate ladder brings him joy. He recently refused to pick up his sister and her newborn at the airport at 11 p.m. because he had a presentation the next day. We discussed it in depth, because it was something I could not understand. He was prepared for the meeting, wouldn't lose any sleep, and he only lived a ten minute drive to the airport. He would have lost nothing, but just the thought of having it on his plate made him feel like it would in some way harm his performance. I was shocked. He had made me pick him up at the airport many times that were inconvenient to me. Once at 4:00 a.m. on my actual birthday.

We are probably friends because I am also someone who focuses on career, though mine is in the arts as opposed to a corporation. I work hard at my craft and the business side of it too. And while I do that, I watch people's dogs if they go on a trip. I will come to your house to water your plants if you need. I will donate to your charity ride. And yes, I will drive you to and pick you up from the airport. It makes me happy to help others. It also makes me happy to succed at my career. Over the years I have realized that those people I helped, also help me. 

I am someone who is genuinely happy to see friends succeed in all areas of their life. Sometimes I am a small part of their successess. And any help I have ever given someone, has led to me always being helped in return. People succeed in groups.  Friendships bring happiness too. 

From my experience, focusing on my own goals has brought me much happiness. But so have my friendships. Both are needed to bring true happiness. You must switch your focus between yourself and others to find the most amount of happiness. Because what is personal success without someone to share the news with?
