There are many different views on what is better when it comes to success. Some people will say that working together is the key and others will say working against each other is the best way. The opinions are varied and to many, it makes no difference. To me, when it comes to success, my opinion is that more is achieved by cooperations than by competition. There are many reasons why this is the way it is.

Competition limits the success to those who want to achieve it for themselves. This can be in many different ways, but if two people are working on a task  and they are head butting for the main spot, then they are only going to be limited to their own idea. Working together, and cooperating will bring the two ideas together. So if one person had one idea, the other had another, then putting the ideas together could branch off to several other ideas. You would end up with both ideas and at the very least an idea that stemmed from their two ideas that might be a combination of their ideas. You might even end up with other ideas too because the two are bouncing off ideas and working together.

Another reason that cooperation is adding to success is that there isn't an ego at play. No one is trying to be disruptive to the worker they are in a rivalry with. There isn't sabotage going on in the workplace. You just will have people willing to help each other out and willing to do whatever they can to make an idea work and be successful. It is better to work together than to work against each other. If there is someone who isn't the best for a task, the other workers can step up and help that person succeed. While with competition, if someone wasn't doing the best they would be left to fumble all alone.

It's also important to remember the people that make up the team. Going against each other is going to make the workers really look over a lot of aspects of their job. It might cause them to not think about something logically due to it being a great idea on paper but not logically being the best idea. With people working with you and around you, someone would notice that something wasn't the brightest idea and let someone know that it needs to be reworked. They want to succeed as much as you would want to. People would look out for each other, people would care if the work isn't going to work out since their necks would be on the line as well as your's. In competition, it wouldn't be like that. 

This also goes with success. You have a better chance at succeeding if you have more brains working with you. Having a team and people that are driving the task with you is going to help out a lot. There is a saying that 1 head is better than none, but 10 heads is smarter than 1. You can apply that to success. It's better to have many different thinking brains with ideas than it is to rely one one brain that is thinking about the competition. Based on this, it's so much easier to have a good time and productive time when things are willing to also teach each other any skill they know and someone wants to learn. With competition, that wouldn't happen. You wouldn't share your skills or ideas. You'd keep those to yourself. With cooperation, you would be so willing to share and help out.

Along with going against each other in competition, the likelyhood of you being blamed if the work "lost" is higher with competition. If people are competiting, someone has to lose and be the worse of the two. There's no other feeling then "I lost" when it comes to that. With competition, you are either a winner or a loser. There is no participation award like there would be for working together and cooperating. In that case, if you didn't do the best there isn't one single person to blame. You'd only get to say "We did our best!" and not a single person would have a lower sense of self due to that loss. They would more than likely get more amped to work with the team to bring more ideas to the team the next time. There would be more excitement to help and get things moving. In competition, it would feel more bogged down. 

In life, several examples of this can be seen. Competition is anywhere in sports and contests and cooperation is also seen in the same areas. When a sports team works together, they are more likely to be in sync with each other and know what needs to be done. With one on one sports, there is no one anyone else can rely on for help. This can be related to work and success in general as well. It's better to be able to fall back onto a pillow (with a team) then to fall back on nothing. The drive to help each other succeed is going to be higher than the drive to bring someone else down.  

Another way that cooperation is better is that if there is a larger work load. Those tasks will be tasked out to people who was knowledgeable in the area and will have no issue doing it. The same work load done by someone in competition will be looking for the way they can do it better than the other people, will likely not want to share the work, and will end up not efficiently working on the project. There will be people willing to help, but they can't help if the person feels that they are the compeition for them. It just makes more sense in all aspects of life to ask for the help with needed. It would be a load off of the worker and end up being more successful.  Working together drives people to want to be the best they can be when everyone else has the same thought.

In the end, it's better to coorperate than to have competition. People will be more willing to share sucess than to be please that they beat another person. It brings up morale and it is a great way to get everyone to feel included in their work. It gives people pride for what they are doing and will really gear up people to care more about the work they do. Otherwise, they are looking just to beat someone and not to care about the work being done. Working together cause work to be more efficiently done as well, as well as being a more efficent learning tool for everyone in the team working. It makes everything run smoother than it would otherwise.
