      The modern computer, the flight of man, and the advent of  vaccines are all inventions that would not have come to pass without the building blocks of cooperation. Some view competition as individual event where its successes and processes exist in a vacuum. At closer inspection "no man is an island" and at some level virtually all competition is propelled forward by cooperation.
      Take the flight of man for example. While this modern marvel is certainly a feat of aviation it in no way was achieved in isolation. While a company is attributed the honors of discovery based which one you reference, they in no way got there on their own. Their schematics were inspired by and built on references from models before them. An inventor takes what works or what is thought to be known and builds off that. They in turn dismiss what has proven to be wrong or dispel what does not work. This is not done in isolation. Without the discoveries and failures of those before them to build off of they would not be able build at the point they are at now. Whether intentional or not the principle of cooperation is instilled in the process. While this is not always acknowledged because a more literal view of the process is associated with the word, I contend that cooperation exits because of the coopting of the inventions and works from those before. 
     The signs of invention are all around us and in use in everyone's daily life. We can't go through the day without the use of a pencil, fork, phone, etc. All of these are inventions that we take into ready use and coopt into our daily lives. Now take this on a grander scale and apply this to research. Before one even begins to solve a problem often a research review is conducted. What has been explored, what is over explored and where do the deficiencies lie. This all relies on exploring and using the work of others. This is cooperation in its most primitive self. Competition in a vacuum does not really exist. All competition at some level is working hand-in-hand with cooperation. 
