Happiness is often a fleeting feeling. One week, a person may feel content with their life and fulfilled, and the next week that feeling could be reversed, with a sense of sadness or emptiness. Often times, this change in feeling is due to the roller coaster of emotions we call life. Events are constantly transpiring: events in our individual lives, our communities and across the world. One commonality across most people remains. Despite these events constantly shifting our emotions, we all strive to achieve and maintain happiness. Though how do we do that? Do we achieve it through our own personal goals, working hard to conquer the mountain of work, duties and commitments? Or do we achieve through outside means, setting our sights less on our own personal motivations and more on other goals that may affect others? 

A difficult argument to make, depending on the person, happiness most often comes when we are often not actively working towards it. Doing things outside of our own personal goals often times reward us with a sense of earned happiness, whereas setting our own goals, and achieving them, may reward us with happiness, but it is fleeting and sometimes doesn't live up to our expectations. Happiness often hits us harder when we are least expecting it, experiencing it not just through ourselves, but through other people, through "outside" goals not set for just your own development.

Take, for example, the person who is an incredibly hard worker at their job, looking to advance in their career. The work will always be there, offering some happiness upon success. That same person may dedicate their after work hours to volunteering in their community. Working hard for other people, not just for themselves. Seeing that hard work blossom and benefit the lives of those around them, often times those in need, grants a sense of something bigger than oneself, a happiness that those in your community get to advance because of the work you put in. There is no sense of personal worry about fleeting happiness - seeing others happy can be infectious, especially when you helped contribute. In a smaller example, when you ask most people if they prefer to receive a gift or give a gift to someone they know they will enjoy, many will respond with giving a gift. Seeing a smile on someone you love's face is often times more rewarding than getting something yourself.

Of course, this may be dependent on individual preference. This is in no way a slight against personal goals and development. Working hard towards earning a promotion is incredibly gratifying and rewarding, granting us new opportunities, fortune and accomplishment. The same goes for personal goals, like training for a marathon, which requires intense work and discipline. Though often times, reaching these rewards grants happiness for only short periods of time. That promotion grants us more pay, but also more responsibility. That responsibility can become overwhelming, outweighing the happiness once rewarded. Completion of that marathon grants such a personal growth and triumph, but what comes next? Striving for a faster time or an even longer run? Are we ever truly happy with these accomplishments or do we need to constantly look for more, to advance our happiness even further? You can make the argument that achieving happiness for the "outside" goals wont often provide that sense of "what else?" you get from personal goals. The sense of accomplishment from "outside" goals can still help us grow, but also not inhibit our happiness by asking for what else is there for ourself. Instead, we can revel in the enjoyment and happiness of others, fulfilled by their joy.

Happiness can mean something different for everyone. At the end of the day, what brings us happiness can be our own individual challenge, reward or cross to bear. Ultimately, we live our lives to foster that happiness as long as possible and that can come from personal growth and development, or goals that help others or humanity itself. What matters is maintaining it. Evidence suggests that helping others keeps it maintained rather than constantly striving to obtain it for ourselves through never ending goal-setting. Happiness comes in different forms, but we all react to it when we see others experiencing it - it is contagious, particularly when we helped those others find it. That's something to celebrate and strive for, even if it means focusing less on personal goals. Though that doesn't mean leaving those out altogether - running a marathon is still quite the achievement!
