 I belive that society is becoming more and more materialistic everyday. It is all around us. From the shows we watch, to the music we listen to. I believe that the youth are especially at kisk for being materialistic, due to being unexperienced. Children do not understand the value of money because they have not had to work for it.  They see their favorite rappers or artist flaunting money and they want to be like them. These kids then grow up and want what they have always wanted. Money and material possessions are truely the root of all evil. People will do unbelievable things to attain it and keep it, including kill for it. I believe modern society should be criticized for being so materialistic. 

While having some material pocessions is a necessary way of life, some people take it too far. People want more and more, in order to keep up with what others have or to feel like they are in control.How much money does one person need to have, if they wouldn't even be able to spend it in a lifetime? Look at Elon Musk.

People often buy things they want, instead of what they need. What happens to all this stuff when people move or when they outgrow a material possession? With more "stuff", there is more trash. With more trash and no place to put it, we will eventually run out of space and will have to find other ways to get rid of waste. Will it end up in our oceans? Will this effect the food we eat? With more demand for products, companies will have to use more energy to keep up with the demand. This has already had a negative effect to the environment.

The negative effects of being materialistic, outweigh the good. Yes, it is nice to have nice things once in awhile, but we should not let it devour us and control us. At what cost will society have enough money and things? When will society start realizing that there is more to life than money or material possesssions.? We all die one day and we have no use for material posessions or money, once we are all dead. It is better to make memories than money, because those memories can last a life time. Material possessions and money can only be enjoyed until we die, if it doesnt kill us first.
