                In this modern world, all are believed depend on the appearances. If it is either a fake or truth. They did not mind that. They believe that depending on the appearances and the way that they show to people. Advertisements are the best part in this type. All around of us are believe appearances not the reality. Clever advertisements create impressions to people. But in depth there is no good or healthy in that product. They just promote their advertisements to people.



            In stores, colourful packages are attractable by the children. Also media provide best role in this type of advertisements. Also politicians, actors and famous peoples are being a part of that type of advertisements. People saw that advertisement and bought that thing only for the appearances of the actors. They did not care about the content of the product. So that we need to be aware of that type of products.


         If we bought a product we need to see the content and what type of minerals and essence are added into that product. Then only we must bought that product. We need to teach that to our children also. We did not attract by the advertisements or any other colourful packages or the famous politicians or actors in the advertisements. So be careful and be aware of clever advertisements.
                                                                                                                                                                     
                                              
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              





                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                       

                                                                                                                                                                                                    



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
