If a picture is worth a 1000 words then one would think that pictures, images and such should have an extrordinarily weight on how one perceives peole things and events. Since the early 20th century with the advent of large media images have taken on an editorial quality in daily life. Outside hard sciences having an opinion, agenda or point of view is at the heart of what picture content is placed in anad, news article etc. Philosophical outlook has always exerted an influence. Is it too much? yes it likely is but I am sure what can be done about it. Complete objectivity is an ideal that will remain in the realm of ideals and is unlikely to be often only vaguely obtained. Everything written and published is going to have a point of view as every writer has a point of view. That doesnt mean everypice picture is pursuing ab agenda but there is always a reason soething correct. Correctness is usually a goal even in marketing and political speech where it ost unlikely.
I do not think that all representations have to be absolutely evenly balanced if their goal is crystal clear. Buy a buick, the are the best doesn't need to meet correctness. It states what it's aim is. If the consumer of the media still chooses to ignore that, there is nothing to be done. If the preacher says I am a teetotaler while waving a bottle around we may be appropriate to think that he is a liar. In media it just sometimes becomes more difficult to tell when positions, pictures, picture selection and position are consciously manipulated. So manipulation in marketing is to be expected. The goal is to put an attractive description of the product. Duh.
In other media this becomes less acceptable as marketing technique is added to the arsenal of the plain old lie. We have various agreed upon and indifferently enforced standards to reduce overt untruth. I agree with that but do not think beyond tweaking and general media awareness can ever be substituted for individulal ability to see through obvious  disingenuousness.
Some folks argue that we can say whatever we want but that has been untrue according to social common law since time began. Some things can cause actual harm in the physical world. This is true all the time and easily proved yet that has never stopped it. We depend on good information to make good decisions.
Without a continuing attempt to make general media and discourse adhere to a standard of thruth we would be lost. So it has to be a supported all the relentlessly. Never the less we have to be aware that we are swayed by image and tr to be as objective as possible. Good luck with that.
