Some people believe that success is achieved through intense the intense competition that is brought about through rivalries while at work in while engaging in play. They believe that the stakes that are set by this type of rivalry should be put in place to help others achieve success and to avoid failures. That does not work as well in the real world. Life is much more complex and requires cooperation between teammates and sometimes even rivals to achieve much more substainal results with actual longevity. 

There are many times that complex situations will arise in life that will require cooperation to succeed. There are many times when multiple different groups or individuals will face a common opponent. This shared opponent may be too large for each standalone group or individual to overpower on their own. The groups may share a common goal and may all reap the benefits of being able to work together simultaneously to overtake the common enemy. If they all worked seperately, they would be able to achieve nothing, but working collectively, everyone benefits. This is strategy is often used in cooperative games or in situations such as wartime conflicts. 

Cooperation could also be used to tackle a large task that is just too much for one person to be able to handle on their own. When one person fails to be able to complete their part of the workload, sometimes this will have a domino effect on the rest of the chain of work. Instead of letting one person fail and causing everyone else down the line to also fail, working together will help keep the workflow on track. 

Working together has a much higher success rate than solely having intense rivalries in place. Many times when no one works together and an intense rivalry is all that is in place, one or all parties involved will fail. No one comes out as a winner. Much larger and more meaningful thinigs in this world have been accomplished when everyone pitched in and worked together as opposed to everyone fighting to come out on top.  One tiny victory achieved by one person does not have the same impact as the collective success of a large group all achieving that same victory. It gets multipled many times over and becomes more impactful. The world's greatest accomplishments have been the results of teamwork. 
