The question that is before us today involves images and impressions. Everyday we deal with people and businesses showing us images and trying to make good impressions for us. They want us to buy their products and services.  Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people? My stand on this topic is no. I feel that images and impressions are static and we can overcome the messages given to us if we choose.  My arguments will follow.

We can be overloaded with images and impressions.  But, we are human and we have methods to not be controled by these methodes.  The Bible tells us to flee from what is not holy and righteous.  This means that there is a way to avoid. We chose what we take in.  You don't have to see images.  Turn off the television and computer. You can choose what you partake.  Good for a walk in a forest, there aren't images and impressions there.  But even if you do have to deal with images and impressions, you can choose what to make with them.  They are just thoughts and ideas.  They are not real.  You have the ability to just ignore the ideas you don't like.  You don't have to guided by them.  A celebrity is just another human.  Follow your heart and mind.  Don't be led by images and impressions, it is your choice!

But is it realistic to avoid these images in today's society?  A person can only go out in the forest for so long. We are sorrounded by images and impressions. How do we not be led by them? My response is that media, politicians, entertainers and other public figures are just humans.  If uncle joe is telling you something, do you always follow what he says?  A public figure should have no more influence over you than uncle joe.  And as far as packaging goes, images and impressions are designed to make you want them.  They spend big dollars to get us to follow their ideas.  But look past the packaging.  Do you need that product?  Check you mind and heart and take some time before making a decsion.  Be in control.

We control what influences us and we ultimately must decide who and what we are.  I believe we can overcome images and impressions as the are static and avoidable.
