"Winning is all that matters." You'll hear that in youth sports, educational opportunities, corporate boardrooms, Wall Street, and everything in between. Nobody likes losing. Not you, not I, not Pete down the street who has just let the 31st hockey puck in a row into the net from his older brother Tommy. Especially not Tommy. Athletes like Muhammad Ali, Mike Tyson, Cael Sanderson, they all won it on their own right? Wrong!  Everyone that has accomplished anything has had some form of support. Some sort of guidance. Winning is not a solo venture.

Competition can be a beautiful thing. It can be one person versus themselves, one person versus another, one person versus many, or any multitude of people versus each other. The aforementioned "solo" athletes did not win individual accomplishments without their caretakers, their coaches, their teammates, sponsors, and many other people along the path. Heck, every facet of nature competes, but the number one rule, whether person or plant, to being successful and to survive, is to cooperate. The much sought after morel mushroom does not grow without the perfect soil, humidity, nutrients, and many other conditions that people have not figured out yet, all provided by the biosphere around it. Is it healthy to have competition? Yes. But competition comes separate to cooperation. There doesn't have to be just one winner in almost anything.  I personally have not met anybody who has truly "done it all by themselves." I wonder how many people could say otherwise.

Now I've heard about things like vision quests; you go out into wilderness by yourself, you find your vision, you return as someone else. But without being raised by their tribe nobody would have the confidence or wherewithal to actually go out there and accomplish their quest. "It takes a village to raise a child." Some people may say that other people get in the way of what they're doing. Well, if you're using any tool other than your own body to achieve anything, someone produced that for you. "Well isn't that all socialism?" one might ask. No, not even close.  This isn't to discredit people that went beyond expectations, who accomplished more than anyone would have given them credit for, it's to show the stepping stones that helped empower them.

The hard truth is that we wouldn't be here if we hadn't leaned on what others had already accomplished and provided for us. We owe it to them, and all of those around us, to work together to further strengthen us as mankind, to take care of our lands, seas, and skies. And to be in harmony, because we looked at those around us and did the right thing, helped, as they did for us, in symbiosis.
