We are surrounded by beauty and perfection.   Slender women in body-concious clothing.  Sculpted topless men in perfect physical shape.  But is this all real?  Is this the ideal?

In reality, these perfect bodies and perfect lives are unattainable, yet individuals strive everyday to seek them out.  Society is brainwashed to think these images are the reality and to be happy we must emulate these people in the media. In truth, no, being a size 2 WILL NOT get a housewife from suburban New Jersey invited to the Oscars.  No, working out and starving yourself WILL NOT get you a new Mercedes and a young model to date.  This idea of perfection not only applies to people but also the things we buy.  Guess what - that stringy cheese you saw on TV was crafted with glue.

Not only do we ourselves seek out this idea of perfection we see every day, with rounds of dieting and lamentations about our size, or about our muscles or lack of them, but we pass that along and it perpetuates itself.  Your child has a bit of baby fat?  Perhaps he or she should diet lest they ruin their popularity.  There is the potential to not only ruin the self-image and self-love children should have for themselves and that parents should be guiding them towards, we have the potential to take away their childhood.  Yes, some surgicaally enhanced celebrity is wearing something ridiculous - does that mean a child should be wearing similar pants that say "Sexy" across the rump?  Will doing so instill talent? Or fame? No. It draws children away fom discovering their own unique talents and can sexualize them before they are ready.

In some ways, it's refereshing to see the "dad-bod" memed in social media, yet in others it's disheartening to see us make a big deal of the reality of normal people.  You'll not see one stretch-mark on a celebrity or in an ad, yet that is reality.    Celebrities have stretch-marks - well hidden ones - but they are there nonetheless. Yet it's to be avoided or "fixed" at all costs lest we be rejected at each turn.

We need to get to a place of "reality-positive".  This is a place where celebrities admit they have cellulite and that their talent gets assistance from sound engineers.  This is a place where an athlete admits they are ridiculously overpaid and taht a teacher should be earing their salary.  This is a place where real parents are shown juggling babies and groceries in and out of that new car and vacumming up smashed crackers. This is the place where we are shown that the person with that expensive car has massive debt or has worked 100-hour weeks to attain that.

We need media and celebrities to be real and truthful with us, so we can be real and truthful to ourselves and to our future generation.
