It seems like people love to criticize what they perceive as materialism in society as a whole; yet when it comes to being able to take a good look at themselves and their own love of possessions...they turn a blind third eye. While I do agree that materialism does exist in a major way, I believe change starts at home. If we can worry less about what other people are doing, and more about ourselves; we are more likely to experience freedom from materialism, if thats what we desire. 
Materialism is always discussed and put in a negative light. The same person though, will not think twice when it comes to purchasing things they feel they want or need. It is only when they are on the outside looking in do they usually judge or have something to say. I purpose that materialism is a personal matter and can only be dealt with at an indiviual or family level. No good can come from judging or getting angry at  how others'  spend their hard earned money.

I have come to a position in my life where I have realized that when I have a problem with something other people are doing, that I am usually lacking in that particular area of my own life. I am projecting my insecurites on others. So if I, for instance, notive I am  having a problem with how my neighbors love their possessions to a fault; then do some self exploring, I can easily see that maybe I myself am not always proud of how my possessions may comfort me. Once we can all be honest with ourselves and see the things in our life that can be changed, we can all make a revolution where we are our best selves and  accepting of those around us. Of course there will always be those who disagree with this and will never look at their own actions. They will claim matieralism is the next guys problem and urge the people around them to change. Once again, we will never change theese people, so why try?

Realizing that your power lies within yourself to change yourself will be a freeing experience. You will have time to follow what the Serenity prayer says. You will be able to "accept the things you cannot change", the "courage to change the things you can" and the "wisdom to know the difference". Good luck on your journey.

So, in conclusion, should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? I believe no. If we personally feel the need to criticize society as a whole, then I feel that is a sign that you personally feel materialism has become a problem for yourself and therefore requires action to be taken on a personal level.
