We often use social media and websites to set a visual goal for ourselves. What we want to be and see, and what we want the world to see about us. We use filters to appear better then we are, so why would companies not use this same effect in their advertisements? People want to seem better then they are, and so do companies, and sometimes this completely takes away from the core values. People see the fakeness, but they still believe.
We see a brand or a label but do not take into account the price it takes to make it, and not just a monetary value. Did the company use ethics in creating their product? Were people treated fairly, and paid a fair wage? These are behind the scenes things we just dont know. So yes, we as a society get dazzled by the front of glamor, instead of the core value. 
Sometimes we purchase a brand knowing that it is not all that is advertised to be. We know that the stain probably wont completely disappear like the advertisement says, but we give it a shot anyway. The woman looks amazing in the newest lipstick, but i bet it doesnt shine as much on my lips. This is how companies can make their money, knowing that their product is wanted and "needed" and people will pay for it. Companies get a way with taking shortcuts and cutting corners to make their product cheaply, but advertising it as the best, withing legal limitations of course. 
This also include standards and pressure women feel from advertisements, celebritites etc, on their physical appearance. Celebritities, instagram stars, influencers are all gorgeous and women compare themselves to the fit beautiful ladies they see on screen. However, deep down they know the images have been doctored,  few inches taken off of her waist here to make the model look slimmer etc. Removal of all blemishes to have the most perfect skin. These are impossible standards, we know are not kept, but yet females especially, compare themselves and always hope and wish for the same effect, from the same products. 
I think images and impressions definitely have to much of an effect of people. As a female, i feel women are impacted by their hpsyical image being compared. We also take into question our own ethics just to own a product, knowing the questionability of the product. Media has blinded the world into believing that we have to live a certain way and present ourselves a certain way. When we obviously don't. 
