    Materialism is something that many people identify with.  Owing more and more stuff to help make life easier, or to try and show status to others.  Is our society materalistic? Yes I feel that our society is materialistic and we should wokr hard not to be.
    A long time ago before technology helped advance our lives people where a lot more minimal in the belongings that they had.  Did people 50 years ago need 3 winter coats one fore work, one for fashion and one for eveyday wear?  No they didn't.  They had one winter coat and used it for everything.  They where resorcfull and didnt run out and buy the next gadget that they saw on tv. They didn't have a coffer pot, french press, espresso maker, and a cold coffe pot.  they just had one coffee pot. If people today would go back to a miminal life style instead of a material lifestyle so many people would not be faced with high amount of debit and having to work to long to pay eveything thing off that they dont get to enjoy retirment.  I feel that people today are so concered with "keeping up with the Jones" that they are putting them self in debit that they very possably wont be able to get out of.  
    I feel that people shoulf be more focused on leading a happy healthy life.  Do you really need everything that you own to be happy?  I do not feel that you do.  As long as you have a roof over your head it doens't matter about the size of the roof but the love of the family under that roof.  Do you really have to buy the whole serise of books to read and spend lots of money on them?  No, you could barrow that books form the libary.  If people in sociery where more minimal didnt accumulate somany materis item think about how much of a great impatch it would be on the enviroment.  There would be less polution going into the air and I feel that climet cricus would head into a better direction.  If people would just stop being so materialistic I feel that they would be a lot happier and havea tromendus amount of stress taken off their shoulders from not being in so much debt that they would be able to lead a long heathier life.  My family personal leads a non material life style and in doing so we owned our own house our right before the age of 35, hav no credit card debit, and own our vechicals our right. 
 Happiness should not be determinied buy having the next newest gadget to add to the collection.  So in short, should modern society be criticized for being materalistic?  Yes it should.  And we should work toward changing it.  
