"Perception is reality". A sentence that has been around for longer than I can say, but it isn't that simple. Perception can become our reality. Humans don't have perfect knowledge of everything around us, we have surprisingly limited senses as our only gateway to the world. We see things, hear them, smell them, touch them, and then our brain translates that into what we know. But it isn't that simple. But it can be easy to fool those senses if someone tries.
All around us, there are people and companies taking advantage of our senses to change how we look at things. Products on packages look more appealing than the contents within. Commercials include perfectly crafted examples of their products, while the product itself can be poor and underwhelming. Politicians and public figures release carefully curated videos and pictures to gain support for themselves or their cause, while hiding their actions behind distractions.
Commercials are designed to sell us products, there is nothing wrong with that. They are, however, a perfect example of this attempt to influence our senses. Fast food commercials will shows juicy burgers, piled high with condiments and toppings, along with a crisp cool drink, covered in condensation. Reality practically never matches up with these standards. The burgers in the commercials have all of their condiments pushed to the front facing the camera, each one carefully laid out to look as large and appealing as possible. The drinks are sprayed with water so that it beads up on the cup and looks as refreshing as possible, and tablets are dropped in them in order to make them fizz. There are people who's entire job is to craft food to make it as appealing as possible for videos and pictures, often making it inedible in the process.
In grocery stores, vegetables can come in bags that include colored stripes, making the vegetables within appear more colorful and vibrant. Packaging for items use a lot of the same tricks the commercials use to entice you to buy their product over their competitors.
It's not just advertisements and products though. People can craft their entire image to influence others. It's why we dress up for important events, following certain dress codes. It's why professional settings require suits instead of t-shirts, to make a good first impression on clients. Politicians and public figures try to create a likable image, so that when they do things that their supporters might not like, or something that might even be illegal or unethical, they are more likely to get away with it because their fans like them anyways.
In todays world, especially with increasing technology and CGI, it's become more difficult than ever to trust our own senses, but they are still the only way we have to interact with the world. We just need to be aware that things are not always what they appear to be, and not let our perceptions become too far away from reality.
