                    In this modern world, we prefer many materialism just to show off to others.  We have a thought that only if we have filled our home with accessories , we will look rich to others.  More than spending money for entertainment or food, we spend on buying products which can make our home look rich.  We prefer things which can increase the beauty of our home just to make our home look good and perfect to others.     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                      Materialism is identity crisis. One day, you will realize that material things mean nothing.  All that matters is the well-being of the people in you life. Materials which you use to fill you house will not fulfill the hearts of your people. It is in our behavior which shows us rich and it does not depend on other materialistic things.               
     
                      When you have rich things around you which you own, will not make you proud or rich and it does not makes you happy at many times. We are just afraid of losing our materials and don't concentrate on others happiness and ours too. It is all just because of your belief that materalism is making you proud but the truth is only your naturality and your character defines you and not any of your financial status.                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
