 I think images and appearances do have too much of an effect on people. It is an advertisers goal to draw the eye, that is their goal, and it is fair game if they fairly draw the eye of the target. I think it is on the consumer or potential customer to determine if there is not enough done or not enough shown for the advertisement. 
 I think the issue here is that sometimes appearances alone can make fools of us, can make us hypocritical. I've seen people say one thing but because they didn't have the right appearance it was taken another way. As a gamer, I've seen this a lot. In fact, one thing I see is that if a woman says something about games sometimes other gamers will question her. Especially if she's a generally attractive woman or I should say appeals to the standard of beauty that most have. So what happens is a woman might say she plays games, she may look more like a model than your typical gamer and as such the typical gamer will sometimes believe she is doing this just for some advertising opportunity and will not think that perhaps she plays games as much as they do. This is an example, in my opinion at least, of impressions and appearances having too much of an effect on people. If this woman was just an ordinary looking male no one would question if she were really a 'gamer' at all. They would just accept it.
 When it comes to products appearances and impressions are everything. After all, companies wouldn't spend millions on advertising if they did not matter. A brand name can go a long way as people will shop and buy what they are familiar with. So for instance you are looking for a new brand of toothpaste. Would you buy the brand you've never seen or heard of or would you buy the brand you had seen a commercial of with a known celebrity? My guess is most would buy the one that was advertised. They don't know the quality of it but they do know that a lot was put into the projection of the brand. It might even have a special package on the shelf that helps it stand out! It's all a game to draw the eye and appeal to some hidden instinct and make you ignore making a more logical decision.
 Politics, in my opinion, is the best example of images and impressions having too much of an effect on people. I think a lot could be said on this particular issue but I would be failing to convince you if I didn't bring up the topic of propaganda. It is a broad term that could mean many things but propaganda, in my mind, is taking images and information and trying to convince people to take one side or the other. If you wanted to make a group of people look bad then what you do is only report the bad things they do. America has a history of doing such things. As a black person I've seen certain people do nothing but report on crimes that black people commit. They'll show a story about a black person robbing a store or assaulting someone and in the replies you would see many people report crime statistics. They make it seem like all black people are committing crimes or even just most are when that isn't the case. It ignores the story of the crime and makes it more of a racial issue. This is a good example of impressions and images having too much of an effect on people.
 In the end it is on the person, the target, to rise above and not let others influence them so easily. Don't just buy a tube of toothpaste because you've seen a commerical about it. Do your research, talk with your dentist, find out which brand is best for you, personally. Look into things but also understand your weaknesses and things you are ignorant about. Always keep the goal, whatever it is, in mind. 
