Materialism has slowly but surely spread its roots through capitalistic societies. New and expensive items are seen as status symbols and badges of the upper crust. The working class is not exempt from this either; the desire to distance oneself from poverty in actuality and in appearance is near universal. The need to fit in and look good starts as soon as socialization starts, and deviation is often met with bullying and social isolation.

Whether materialism is the symptom or the disease itself I cannot say, but it's clear that materialism can be and is used as a cudgel against the less fortunate. It's also clear that it's unhealthy and unrealistic to strive for only the newest and best things available. It causes feelings of inadequacy and shame when this standard isn't reachable, and frankly it isn't reachable for most average folks. It helps to extend the divide between rich folks and poor folks, raising class tensions at a time when anger is already in no short supply. Modern society should be criticized for its materialism. It also needs to come to terms with its materialism and grow beyond it, for the good of themselves and others, before it's too late.

Of course there are those who say there's nothing wrong with having nice things. If you have the money, you should be able to spend it however you see fit. I only take issue with the social repercussions of materialism. Objects should not be more important than people, or the environment. The rush for the newest and shiniest things at all times is unethical and unsustainable. Landfills are stacked with last year's electronics, often still in working condition but tossed in favor of the newest release. Recycling simply can't keep up with the amount of forced obsolescence rampant in so many industries. The clearest evidence I can find that materialism does cause some people to value objects over humans are the numerous incidents of tramplings and fights during Black Friday sales. I myself have been trapped in a cramped aisle while people pushed and pulled to get to the electronics section of a department store, where I witnessed a very impassioned game of tug-of-war over a new HD television.

What it comes down to is materialism simply isn't healthy. It's a detriment to society and something people should strive to improve in themselves. We can't take any of this with us to the great beyond and all our corpses will look the same with enough time. It's imperative that we focus on the here and now, with what little time we do have, and appreciate our fellow humans more than our possessions. To sum up, modern society should and must be criticized for its materialism, for the good of other people and the environment. People must be convinced of the harm materialism has been causing for years. Money and the spending of it, ideally, would matter much less in a better world.
