In today's society, it has become more and more apparent that there are two groups of individuals: those who are out for themselves and often very competitive and those who favor a more subtle approach and lean on cooperation and collaboration to reach levels of achievement. It's often viewed as a 'me" versus "us" outlook. 

While it's great to achieve things on your own, I believe one can never fully become successful on their own. You always need the help of others at some point in your climb to success. It's often comes down to those who are willing to admit that they need help versus those who want to claim all rights to their success as their own doing. I believe one has a better shot at being successful when you remain open minded, cooperative, and willing to work with others towards a common goal. When we work together, everyone can be successful instead of just one person. When everyone has a chance to be successful, then it's a win for everyone. 

In my first university level Sociology course, our professor asked us this question: "Can you make a hamburger all by yourself?". She wanted us to ponder that thought for several minutes before she asked us by a show of hands who felt they could make a hamburger on their own. Nearly every hand, including mine, went up. You could hear slight laughter and some bewilderment at the question because as long as you had some basic cooking/grilling skills, what young 20 year olds couldn't make a simple burger on their own? After taking a quick surveilence of the show of hands, she asked us to think about that again. This time she rephrased it and said "How many of you can make the burger completely on your own ? With absolutely no help?". Confused, most of us raised our hands again. She then proceeded to go through a set of steps about the hamburger making process. Were any of us farmers? Do any of us grow grain that is needed to make the buns for a burger? Are any of us cattle farmers who raise cattle? Does any of us own meat processing centers? Grocery stores? The list went on and on. Eventually, she got to the point that we cannot make a simple hamburger without the help of someone else along the way. It's not just about compiling all the ingredients at the end. Sure, we can all do that! But, other people had a hand in making those products for you to make the hamburger. So, no, we cannot make a hamburger all by ourselves. It was in that moment that I understood how important it was to recognize that it takes more than just one person to be successful. 

What is success? We all have our own definitions of it. For some, it's making a lot of money. For others, it's recognition and high status. Yet, for others, it's simply just being happy and content. None of these are inherently wrong. I think success is a personal feeling, and we all have different levels and things that make us feel successful. But, how do we get there? Some people think they need to be tough and competitive. Plow anyone down in my way! I have to be the best! I have to show others that I am #1. I have the best ideas. I have the best process. "I" ... "I" ... "I" ... and some people do achieve their definition of success that way. But, others take a road that leads to a longevity of success. It's one thing to achieve success. It's another way to keep it. How do you do that on your own? You don't. 

By building others up through a shared success, you are setting yourself up for continued success as well as others. Through cooperation, you gain other elements such as respect, gratitude and trustworthiness. How great is being successful if no one trusts you or wants to work with you? How can you continue to be successful if you did not form relationships along the way of cooperation and trust? Who do you have to lean on to help you continue to remain at the top of your game if you're focus was competition and trampling on others to get to the top? No. The best way to be successful is to have all those building blocks along the way. Cooperating with others forms and builds upon relationships that will help you retain your success. When you can compromise and cooperate, it lends to a different skill set that opens up doors to other important building blocks as previously mentioned: trust, respect, honesty, teamwork. 

Have you ever had a coach who told you that there is no "I" in TEAM? I have. She was right, too. One single person cannot win a team championship. It takes everyone. Even if a team builds around one great player, that person isn't always going to be on their A-game. You need to have support. The same goes for any success in life. You need to be cooperative with people so that people want to help and support you. Often, it's a mutual gain. And mutual respect and admiration leads to better opportunity and more open doors. 

So, do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition? You can build more on cooperative relationships and the elements that you gain from doing so. More doors open. More opportunity to be successful or more successful. Competitiveness gives you the win in the short term but it's not sustainable if you don't have the respect that you would gain from being cooperative. If you are known as the competitive person who is only out for themselves, you can continue to break through closed doors. Or, you can learn to be cooperative and work well with others so that your biggest decision is which OPEN door you can just simply walk through and continue to build upon your success. 

