In todays highly profit and results driven world, most corporations and people believe that competition is the answer to achieve greater success. This can be seen in the way we hire, structure our teams, and even the way we socialize in our day to day lives. However, if we take a step back from the modern era, one can easily see that throughout human history, cooperation beats competition.

Ever since humans climbed down from the trees of the Savvanah, our strength has been in numbers and problem solving. It is through our cooperative nature that we were able to share our skills with one another and overcome our struggles. One person would teach the tactics for hunting prey, while another one would prepare the tools needed for the hunt, meanwhile other tribe members would stay behind and protect the territory, and yet others would build and expand the lodgings. Not a single action taken by an individual would ensure success, but when combined, the collective force was unstoppable.

Some may say that this line of thinking doesn't translate to our modern lives, but this neglects the fact that while our problems are modern, the solutions are not. For example, in a scenario where two different teams, one working within itself to solve problems, and another one pitting its own members against each other for an answer, the former one will produce better results. This is because the former group can use the collective skills of each individual to its greatest potential and combine them into one super solution, meanwhile the latter will have the group members be so preoccuped with being individually superior that they will lose sight of the greater goal of success.

In conclusion, working amongst ourselves will almost always lead to greater results than if we pitted one group against another. This can be applied across all facets of life. If we hire team members that will complement our current workforces' strengths, then the workload will lessen for all. Making our teams aware of each other's strengths and weaknesses and encouraging them to help one another out will make the individuals intintively care more for the collective. Even in a simple example as our day to day socialization, when a group of friends can't figure out where to go to eat, collectively working together to come to a choice that will please all will satiate them faster than if each person behemently insists on their obscure choice of dish.
