Some people believe that happiness comes from achieving their own personal goals and aspirations. Others believe that there can be more happiness from helping others. I believe that there is more happiness to be found from helping others. While there may be truth to gaining happiness from achieving your own goals, you can achieve more happiness from helping others becuase of the total amount of people that gain happiness, the lasting impact of your actions.
To start, by helping others you not only achieve an amount of happiness for yourself but also for other people. If you help one other person, you have now made two people happy instead of one. That is more people happy than if you focused only on yourself. That knowledge can be used to create more value in your actions and (in the end) more happiness for yourself. Some people may argue that they cannot gain happiness from others if they are selfish and do not care about anyone else's happiness. This can be refuted by simply pointing out that even non-selfish acts of kindness can be twisted in a way to gain happiness only for yourself. There are people that help others simply to gloat that they have helped. It is generally viewed as a positive thing to help others. If others see you in a better light then your value as a person can increase. Is increase in value can be taken to generate more happiness for yourself. This can still be considered selfish since you are only helping others for your own personal gain. 
Secondly, I believe that the actions you take to help others can create lasting effects. Creating lasting effects can create long term happiness and can compound with short term happiness. To take this to an extreme, if I save a young person's life in some way, then every additional year that person lives can be seen as a positive. I can continue with my life knowing that I changed someone's life for the better. Remembering this throughout life generates happy feelings for myself. Although the positive lasting effects of helping others can be apparent, it is important to remember that there is a "shelf life" to any action. You cannot continue to remember one action without it having dimishing returns in happiness. Peoples' memory is also unreliable and easily changed. Constantly bringing up an old action can cause the opposite and you may be seen as selfish and out of touch. This can have negative effects on your happiness as those positive actions are tainted with negative emotions. 
Overall, I believe that helping others is the best course to being happy. While there are issues with this idea such as selfish people may not be inclined to this thus limiting the amount of people that can be happy by helping people and knowing that helping others can lead to dimishing returns in happiness and eventually may cause the opposite, unhappiness, helping others tends to generate more happy feelings for more people and can have lasting effects. In my opinion, this leads to more happiness while also providing happiness for others.
