    In the day in age where the more it appears that you have, the higher in society you stand, a lot of people have become focused on material objects and the impact they have on their self-worth and the opinion of others around them. While this seems to be an ongoing trend of "Who can have the most?", I believe it is tearing ourselves apart at the seams, and yes, it is unhealthy for society as a whole. We have a perception that we must keep ahead of others in the form of objects and posessions in order to feel successful, but, in all actuality, it has become entirely too easy to obtain this sort of "wealth", and it is fair that we should be criticized because of it.

    When those who came long before us and the world that we know it walked the earth, there was no currency (at least not money like we know today). There was no mass production, and when you had something, there was usually a circumstance in which you came to own this thing. There were still those touted as high society, wealthier than others, but they were few and far between, and also often untouchable, almost like today's actors and pop stars. They also had things, lots and lots of things. These things, though, were not manufactured by the thousands and shipped to a store, where you or I could nix a whole paycheck on one item, and no one could stop us. These things; furs, jewelry, tapestries, anything those from the older times had were a bit hard to come by, as there was often only one ever made. Now, this means nothing. You could see the same pair of $300 Nike sneakers three times in one day just taking a walk downtown. In other words, this mass manufacture has ruined the essence of owning something you know that nobody else has, because, realistically, someone probably does.

    Though some may argue that this is not such an awful thing for society, that we've come a long way, and suggest that this way of life is actually progression rather than regression because we are all now able to obtain about as much as the next person, it is simply not true. Those who create things themselves are the only ones of all of us that truly have something that nobody else has. I believe the materialistic approach to life has truly slaughtered our individuality, due to companies copy-and-pasting their designs thousands of times over, then selling them to those who believe the lie that it makes you "more worthy" of anything.

     In conclusion, though we are all guilty of this lifestyle because the world around us has made it practically impossible to not be at some point, I think the generations of humans long before us had it right. We, as a whole, do not need posessions to be successful, the true success in life comes from our individuality, and companies, at least the ones capitalizing on our immature ideologies, are going to be the death of individuality as we know it. 
