Happiness is an abstract concept that seems to permeate, and at times plague, the mind of the indiviudal. It is a goal which we can not help but to tirelessly pursue, though there is no clear avenue to achieve. Some theorized avenues even seem to directly contradict each other. In this essay we will explore the pursit of happiness from two different perspectives. The first perspective asserts that one must become self actualized and fixate on individual goals to achieve happiness, while the second claims that and individual can achieve happiness through focusing on improving the quality of life for other memebers of humanity. This essay aims to prove that happiness is obtained through focus on ones personal goals, because the achievement of these goals bring about a lasting sense of fulfillment.

The manner is which a person achieves happiness is related to that individual's personality and values. The variance in personality from individual to individual means that achieving different goals will bring about a varied level of fulfillment depending on the individual. An example of goal achievement could be building a unique skillset. For one individual, building this skillset could be more fulfilling because they are able to overcome things they struggle with through the process, such as practicing self detemination and reliance. The sense of pride and self-improvement they feel in an area they struggle with can bring about a long lasting sense of happiness. If a person does not struggle in these areas, than the sense of accomplishemnt can lessen. If a person struggles to be happy, then they should analyze what components of their life are causing their distress and set goals that aim to give them a sense of fulfimment and personal growth.

A seemlingly contradictory approach to happiness claims that a person should focus on the happiness of others and the improvement of humanity. While this seems to contradict the idea of individualism, these notions are one in the same. helping others certain individuals feel fulfilled because it aligns with personal goals of that personality. Some people feel fulfillment in helping others, because want to view themselves as benevolent and altruistic. While there actions to benefit the community at large, their actions and ultimately self serving. For those who do not gain a sense of fullfilment in this aream  the are far more variables that can take away from the overall payoff for their efforts. For this reason, personal goals are more likely to bring about happiness.


 
