Open your eyes! We have now reached a period of time in our world where we have to start to question if what we are seeing with our naked eye is showing us the true nature of a product, person, or even situation. We are living in times where it is not who you are but how many followers on social media you have. These star performers are promoted as influencers and they are paid to advertise products to convince you to buy them. Celebrities are also displayed on pedestals to us and their less than desirable pasts and habits are disguised or swept under the rug and we envy and idolize them without wavering to our own instincts as to the real characters of the people. 

At the supermarket, you will see boxes of cereal lined on the shelves. They are displaying colorful images of smiling and dancing cartoon characters and some contain free toys. A responsible shopper will turn the box on its side and read the nutrition information. There they may see bionengineered ingredients, food colorings, and modified ingredients. The packaging is made to seduce the eye and perhaps distract you from the true quality of the product. Companies will use celebrities to market these products as well. They try to make us believe that these are the very best food choices on the market and people will buy them without giving it a second thought. 

Some people will believe what they are shown or told as long as it was from their favorite politican or public figure. Even if they are shown evidence that contradicts the truth of their knowledge, they will not abandon the proven lies. The advertisment industry knows this and they use it to their advantage. From sneakers to sandwiches, we are subjcted to all kinds of ads that will stimulate our senses. Many times this will be on a subconscious level. Alot of us will not even notice the influence of our shopping habits by a brightly packaged carton of  chocolate milk or a candy bar. 

Overall, we must take a clear view of everything we see and train ourselves to view the actual product or person and not be distracted by the glitter and glam of it. We must break free of the the decades of  ads containing fancy pictures and catchy slogans and be openly perceptive as to what is actually in front of us. The new view may be overwhelming at first, but there is much more beauty in truth.
