We all strive for success in our lives. We want to maximum achievement in our educational experiences. We want to obtain well paying jobs where we can advance in our careers. We want to raise happy,  healthy families, with children who will ultimately contribute to our communities. Some view success as a competitive process, whereby they strive to always "get ahead" of others in the all positions in the company. Others feel that working together with other employees will bring the best out in everyone and will produce the most positive outcome for our companies.

Cooperation is the process whereby we all desire to combine our talents into a sort of think-tank, and we can all draw from that. Since we each are blessed different abilities, we are called to share those talents with our colleagues so that the product of our joint abilities is much larger than the individual abilities. Cooperation leads to happier workers and better outcomes than the competitive model.

Others strive to compete and be the best even among their best friends and colleagues. This competiveness leads to endless stress, restless nights, and poor physical and emotional health. At the end of the day, one may say "I am the best and I have proven it", but be quite unhappy, and it may be lonely at the top. 

The cooperation model leads to happier and healthier employees. It leads to quality work. It contributes to person health, less stress, and more joy in the work. Ultimately, it can produce friends from fellow workers, and can lead to social activities outside of work, which will benefit everyone. It may well lead to less "sick" days, and a more fully functional work force.

So, in conclusion, when we are looking to be the most successful in our lives, we can work hard to be better than everyone else, and end up being fairly alone. Or we can choose to cooperate and work together with our fellow workers to ultimately bring successes equally to all of us in our work, and have more joy in our daily lives. It seems obvious which is the better route to take in both our careers and our personal lives.
