The discussion of whether cooperation or competition yields more success depends largely on one's definition of success, as well as personal goals. In today's capitalist society, a degree of competition is expected if one is to be successful in careers, as well as to secure one's position in the upper class. But what if an individual eschews competition in favor of cooperation?

A cooperative personality is more likely to lead to lasting satisfaction in both personal and professional lives. 

A person who strives to be cooperative is going to be pleasant to work with. This person will posess interpersonal communication skills as well as listening skills. They will be effective at problem solving and an asset to the work place. This can lead to greater opportunities for promotion, and glowing reviews for potential new jobs. By contrast, a competitive individual may give short term impressive results, but at the cost of burnt bridges. 

In their personal lives, the cooperative individual will be better equipped to navigate romantic relationships, family, and friendships. The word "competitive" in the workplace may initially give the impression that someone is driven for success, but when you place that same word in the context of a close personal relationship, and the picture quickly changes. Childishness, arguments, and overall toxicity immediately come to mind. 

CEOs are four times more likely to have antisocial personality disorder (previously known as psychopathy) than average. CEOs are seen as the epitome of success, and surely possess competitive traits to get to where they are. Surely that's evidence that competitiveness is the way to go? But what defines success? Amassing a pile of wealth? Power? Respect? Is that even true happiness? Especially at the expense of damage to one's personal life.

While an individual driven by competitiveness may find monetary wealth, it is achieved by using people as tools to achieve one's means. those who prioritize cooperation will find themselves with a more well-rounded type of success. Cooperation is an effective trait towards professional achievement, but even more important is the sustained happiness towards forming strong reciprocal relationships. Combined, the result is a well-rounded success in all areas of life, with personal relationships based on mutual trust. Creating meaningful relationships is what ultimately leads to happiness. If you aren't happy.. are you even successful?
