I think people can achieve more success by cooperation. Competition is always there but knowledge can be shared and passed on from people to people . This is what is meant by cooperation. Let us see few examples of cooperation and competition and check on their advatages and disadvantages.
Competition is when one is trying to prove stronger or smarter over the other. This could be because of rivalry or can lead to rivalry. These happen especially in schools when you are too young to understand and want to be in good books with the teacher. The teachers always give example of best student who gets best and top marks. So it feels like an achivement and to show I am the best. 
On the other hand cooperation is helping others. If a person is new to a job he will succeed when he is being helped by his coworkers. So cooperation brings the best out of him.  If a student is facing difficulty or not understanding and is afraid to ask his teacher. He can always get cooperation from his class mate . And thus in both the cases they will achieve success.
Competition may lead to bad intentions but cooperation is always with a positive attitude. Cooperation can take you ahead in life .It can help you climb the ladder of success. It will make you a better person. Once you get cooperation from others then only you can win the competition. Without cooperation there is no competition. Competition can also gain a set back in your life. If you are not strong enough you cannot rise after you fall. In competition there will be always someone before you or after you. Competition will never feel you content . It will always ask for more. One cannot be satisfied with it. Success is how one measures in his life. A businessman earning thousands of dollars in day will still not satisfied and will not see himself successful. While a person selling few items on living on daily wages may be successful when he has got more money then he could save few. I think people will achieve more success by cooperation only.
Competition will not lead to anywhere . It is a vivacious cycle where a person will keep on spining with no end to it.  Sharing and gaining knowledge will make people more successful. There would not be internet , books or other social media to share if cooperation would not lead to success. Sharing is caring and achieving success in long run. So yes people will achieve more success by cooperation rather than competition.
