Independence is something that humanity in particular seems to value. Its not a uniquely human experience, but overall humans seem to enjoy when they are able to exercise "free will". On average, I would argue that most people are not necessarily "self-centered", but I would say "self focused", even when it comes to caring for others. It is only human nature to think of yourself, how the situation is affecting you, and what benefits or costs the situation is bringing to, or taking from you. So I would posit that humans are most happy when focusing on their personal goals, things that they consider their passions, and working towards goals that they themselves have set. This is not to say that you cannot be happy when others are, just that the personal effects are always going to be at the forefront of one's thoughts.
Happiness occurs most often when someone accomplishes something. Think of things like graduating from school, landing a new job that you've always wanted, finishing a project you've worked on for awhile, or asking someone out and they say yes! It can be simple things that bring one happiness, or more complex and in depth things. As a person, though, you will always be more attached to the things happening to you, the things affecting your situation in life, because these are the things you deal with on a daily basis. If something were to happen to someone around you, good or bad, you would eventually be away from that person and that situation. But you will always be with yourself. The goals and things you wish to achieve, those are the things you think about in your free time, away from others. Accomplishing those means a culmination of so much time, time you've spent dwelling on those goals, time you've spent trying to make them a reality, and the time you've spent changing them as you progress through life.
While happiness can be received from others, it is not what I would consider the average response. Generally, living in pursuit of making others happy will lead to disappointments along the way that are out of your control. In this way, it makes it hard to say that one would be more likely to achieve happiness through pursuing others' happiness. There is just so much more risk involved, things that are out of the control of you, the person who is trying to be happy. When you focus only on your personal goals, there are less "moving parts", fewer things that are out of your control, and fewer things that can go wrong. From a mathematical standpoint, you're simply more likely to be happy with fewer variables at play. In this case, that means pursuing your own goals.
There is a case to be made that blind pursuit of happiness, only thinking of oneself, is dangerous and potentially harmful. That is a fair criticism, as when you lose focus on the people around you and don't think of them at all, you're likely to step on their toes, or worse. In this way, its important that even in pursuit of one's own goals, to consider others' feelings. While their potentially happiness or sadness might have an effect on you, overall the goal here is to manage risk, again. Being considerate means, quite literally, to consider them. You're making sure to think of the situation, the people involved, the reactions beforehand. Everything is being done proactively. So these things are not mutually exclusive, you can be focused on your personal goals and self-oriented without being inconsiderate of others. In fact, I would argue that its part of your due diligence in pursuit of your goals to consider their impact, and that includes their impact on others.
Mathematics may not be the most glamourous way to frame my position, but in my mind it is the most effective. Simply put, you are more likely to be happy when you can control the situation and its variables in order to make yourself the happiest. The risk of "hitching your wagon" to others' goals and happiness is that there are more things out of your control, things that can go wrong in spite of your best efforts, which would in turn make you feel much worse than a simple failure that you can learn from. When you are able to focus on yourself, and your goals, and pursue what matters to you as a person, it only stands to reason that you would personally gain more from that as well. When you consider the control that you also have over that situation, in comparison, there is much less that could potentially go wrong. So while it may not be the solution for everyone, statistically speaking, you would indeed be more likely to be happy pursuing your own goals than by pursuing the happiness of others.
