Success achieved by competition versus cooperation is, in my opinion, entirely dependent on what type of goal is to be achieved.  However, broadly speaking, competition works best in terms of sports and games, whereas cooperation is the superior option when trying to create something or achieve a common goal.
Sports, as an example, is an area where competition thrives because competition is the point.  We watch sports to see who is best at the game.  We take sides and we want to see our team be better than another team, and we revel in the thrill of victory.  But it's implicit in sports that competition will happen.  We get into sports expecting competition and we are fully prepared for it.  We consent to competing by taking part in sports, and so we are okay with the fact that we are in a competition.  This is not to say that there is also not cooperation in sports -  for example, we cooperate by agreeing on a set of rules, or a location where the sport will be played.  This fact also ties into my next point - why cooperation is superior to competetition for reaching a common goal.
When we are trying to achieve a common goal or create something, though, collaboration is almost always the better option.  Humans are naturally different from each other in many ways; we think about things differently from each other and what seems obvious to one person may be difficult to notice for another person, and vice versa.  If we are trying to create something new and beneficial, it is better for people to cooperate because by bringing together so many different minds and backgrounds and outlooks to the same goal, we have a better chance of achieving our goal.  If we compete with each other, we do not get the benefit of each other's thoughts and opinions, and we suffer for it.  In the paragraph above, I talked about cooperation in the context of sports.  Cooperation works even in this context because if people were not able to agree on a set of rules or a location to play the game, for example, there could be no competition because we would not have the sport to begin with.
In this way, cooperation and collaboration is more likely to produce significant and lasting accomplishments.  Competition is fine when we want to create a contest where one person or group comes out on top of the other one, but when everyone needs to benefit from a goal, collaboration is the way to do this.  Cooperation is less stressful, more fulfilling, and leads to a better result for everyone - which competition necessarily does not.
