i have come across materialism in our modern day society and it has brought so much competition amongest our youths and adults. everyone wants to become successful and be  rich quickly at the same time. people are defined by what they have which has caused so much competition in the society. i have come across young guys who will basically do anything to become rich and have all the materialistic things the world could offer. people should be careful on the decisions they make at their tender age and be able to think on the positive side and also the negative side.

young people should work on themselves and work hard in order to achieve anything in life. the society has subjected the young generation on technology too much that they end up forgetting about themselves and what would become of them in the future. i always try my best not to focus on materialistic things because i have been able to see the people of my age having more pressure on having something just to prove a point.

i will urge the government to also help the youth in providing them with education and teaching them the importance of life and how to become a better person in the society at all times. also making sure that every child attends school and is able to aquire all the materials needed. materialistic things come and go and as long as one puts effort in his or her education someday you will be able to have everything you have always wanted. we also need to make our society better with great leaders who will be able to help our people in everything to make things better. i will forever be happy to see young kids attending school, people living together as a community and loving one another no matter the circmstances of life. we should support ech other at all cost. avoiding racial discrimination and being able to work together in building the nation and uniting our people. the society should make sure materialistic things do not affect our young generation but instead give them teachings on how they should become great men and women in the society and being able to help each other in times of need and working to prosper.

