Picture the movie, gray office building. It is probably raining. A man or woman is sitting in their office doing some tedious task. No one is excited, no one is smiling. I believe many movies, shorts, and shows have all successfully shown how drab and boring that office setting is. Finally, someone decides they are no longer going to just sit there and push papers, but they are going to seize the day! Usually when they choose to leave the office and take on life, they are not going alone but grabbing others with them! They want everyone else to join them and be happy also! Happiness is a attritube that takes friends! Happiness cannot operate if done alone. 

People are more likely to be happy if they devote their time to helping make others happy! Take a teacher for instance. Teachers obviously do not go into their careers with the hope of being millionaries! So why spend time with kids all day? Because they care about them as a little person and want to advance their happiness. Teachers boost student's happiness when they give them confidence in academics, connect students with other friends, and help them create a routine in their day. No kid ever feels happy when they recieve a failing grade, and the teacher does not want their student to fail but succeed. However, when that student is taught and encouraged and they recieve a great grade, both the student and the teacher are happy! When a teacher connects students together to be friends, everyone is happier! Teachers are just one example of of a profession that strives to make others happy. 

All professions within the service industry work to make their customer happy! So many professions ask for their customers to provide feedback. When the feedback comes back positive, the workers and customers are happy! When a survey comes back negative, no one is happy. Most people who enjoy their jobs are working to complete a task to help someone else feel more positive. There are so many non-profits and organizations that are geared toward wanting to help others and make them happy. Why would such an establishment exist if they did not believe that making others happy was worth the time and energy. 

Society, especially as of late, has encouraged others to chase their own dreams or goals and they will be happy. That happiness, however long it lasts, is fleeting. Once you acheive the goal then what? So you made it to the top, so you became the boss, so you did whatever it was that you were striving for; however, how many hours of family time or hobby time did you have to sacrifice to get there? Did you find happiness on that path, or are you burnt out? Many of the famous movies don't show that someone acheived their goal and feels they have everything. Typcially, the movie shows that the person who achieved their goal is still just missing something. Happiness cannot be found at the end of goal. Happiness is found when you are striving along the way to make others happy. It might change how you approach situations and not burn bridges along the way. 

Another objection is that sometimes while making others happy, you yourself burn out on the way. However, if everyone is working to make others happy, someone should or would be pouring into you. As they give you happiness you are ready to give to others! 

Serving others and desiring for others to be happy is more life giving than just tring to meet your own goals. More often than not, you hear people doing what they do for the people or the smiles on others faces. That is how I am confident in knowing that happiness comes from serving and loving on others. 


