What is more important to an individuals success?  Is it competition or is it cooperation?  While both are extremely important and both are needed to succeed in our world, COMPETITION, is still the most important in an individuals success. 
When we have competition, we strive to bring out the very best in ourselves.  It all starts when we are a young child.  Whether it is competition to get that last dougnut or ice cream bar from our siblings, or playing on the youth t - ball team, these events are all helping us learn to strive to be the best that we can be.  Sure, there are ways to work together and cooperate, such as spliting that last doughnut, yet it still instills that drive in us to be the best to get what we want out of life.  We are programed in such that we do not want to fail.  So by having these early experiences (which may seem insignificant), these experiences are actually helping us and preparing us for life.

Let's take the example of playing youth sports.  In on league, only the winners receive a trophy.  In another league, all participants receive a trophy.  Which of the players would be more inclined to work harder when the next season rolls around?  The answer is, the ones where only the winners receive the trophy.  The players that saw the winners receive the trophy, get the message that in order for that to be them the next year, they have to work hard and practice to get better in order to achieve the goal of being the next one to recieve that award (the trophy).  They have a goal and something to work for.
On the other hand, yes it should still be fun, and yes you still need to cooperate with your coachs and team mates.  However, those are pieces of the whole process, with the competition still being the most important.

So in conclusion, yes we do need to learn to cooperate and work well with our peers and it is still important and necessary.
However, we can only be responsible for ourself and our number one job is to look our for ourself.  Therefore, in order to truly succeed and become the best we can be, we need to COMPETE to get ourself there.  There can still be times to have fun and cooperate with others.   We will have success and failures in life.  

So set goals, work hard, lace up the soccer shoes, and split that last doughnut with your sibling.  Just remember, if you work harder and compete, you may just get a bigger half. 
