Materialism and its behaviors have enveloped most people's lives, especially in the Western world. Acquiring possessions and spending money, has become the default lifestyle for most humans. Although some may brush off the criticism of materialism, I believe that modern society does deserve to be critcized for being materialistic.
The constant chasing of possessions and economic utility, has caused us to lose touch with the world around us. Many, possibly unconciously, view materialism as an expected feature of life. They live their lives with the main goal of acquiring as many expensive possessions as possible. People then view this material wealth as a measure of their success in life. I believe that success in life should not be calculated by how much money one makes, the size of their house or amount of possessions. Instead, I believe it should be measured by how one treats his fellow man and what they truly put out into the world. Disregarding the feelings and situations of others while in pursuit of more material wealth, seems to be fairly common these days. This chase for material has also lessened our compassion for our fellow man. The constant "need for more" has also created a world of mindless consumers that are missing the lives happening in front of them.
Some may say that materialism does not deserve to be criticized due to it bringing many a vital source of meaning and happiness. While this is partially true, that happiness is often short-lived and fairly surface-level. The feeling you get from new and nice things is a nice feeling, but usually fades fairly quickly and must be replicated by the next purchase. I believe, most real happiness comes from helping others, rewarding experiences and friends and family. Materialism can also help fuel economic growth, which is another benefit. With such benefits I do not believe that there should be no materialism, that is unrealistic and foolish. However, unfettered and mindless consumerism and materialism are detrimental.
We will always want more and things that make our lives more comfortable. However, we must reexamine how it is shaping the world and our futures. While many live their lives without awareness of their materialism, there are many less fortunate that are not blessed with even the ability to become materialistic. I believe that less materialism and more human connectedness is the balance we need.
