While it is certainly true that manufacturers and the media alike tend to exaggerate both products and people, these misleading images and impressions do not have too much of an effect on people. The assumption that the exagerrated propoganda is too much for the majority of people to handle is frankly insulting. 

People are definitely capable of looking deeper than surface level and deciding for themselves whether or not products and people have true merit. Most people have a clear understanding that just because something is attractive does not inherently indicate intrinsic value. There have been numerous cases were attractive products have failed on the market because they were impractical or poor quality. Most of how we are exposed to new products in todays environment is through advertisement and I for one have never purchased an item just because it looked aesthetically pleasing in an ad. I am a careful shopper who carefully weighs pros and cons and compares price and quality before making a purchase.

Some people might argue that a lot of individuals, however, do buy nearly everything they see advertised, but I attribute this more towards hoarding and a shopping addiction than them being persuaded on looks alone. Online reviews are so popular today that even if a few individuals buy a product based on an initial positive impression, then the feedback they inevitably leave on review sites would discourage the majority from following in their path if the product was unsatisfactory. Similarly, with people there is a known fact that attractive individuals generally receive more opprtunities and better treatment than their unattractive bretherin. However, I would argue that this too affects a minority of people and is blown way out of proportion. If someone's character or moral integrity is lacking then an initial positive impression will do them no favors in the long run.

For the reasons stated above I feel that as a whole images and impressions of people and products do not have too much weight when judging said individuals and items. Most humans are too intelligent to be so easily persuaded by something based on shallow initial impressions or a shiny veneer. Like any other aspect these are mearly two small part of the whole that make up people and things.


