Materialism has existed since Pharoahs ruled Egypt, since the Greeks fought the Trojans, and since Cosimo de'Medici controlled Florence. The ability for wealth and power to allowing people to engage in conspicuous consumption has been something that has existed for thousands of years. The concept of criticizing people for being too materialistic seems to be something that is very obvious in our current society. However, it is not something that will go away, likely ever. I propose, instead of criticizing the level of materialsm within society, we attempt to change out methods of obtaining these objects and reduce the need for items that have no purpose other than showing off the fact that we have them. 

As I've noted, materialism has existed for many years and has been engrained, particularly into American culture from the start. The reason, I believe, that materialism has become so problematic currently is our ability to gain these objects with such ease due to technology. If we get an idea of something we want or see something we want, we can have it in a click of a button. Accounts set up with our payment information already stored make this process significantly easier not only for the lack of effort of typing in our credit card numbers, but the removal of the chance to rethink your purchase, even if only for a few moments. If it took effort, even as little effort as driving to a store and browsing, people would not be so quick to just click and buy. Effort and time are deterants to rapid spending, particularly for those who can't afford what they are buying (which is more than half of America). 

Once again, should people be judged on materialic tendencies? I do feel that materilism is an issue and a problem and people shouldn't focus on things but instead, focus on each other. However, materialism is something that has existed for a very long time and I do not see it going away. In ways, particularly for people interested in archeology and art history, without material objects, there would be little to no knowledge of historical cultures and visual references to the past. So, despite the negative connotation applied to materialism, it is vital to express the important elements in different cultures and provide an understanding of society as it was and is. So, I suppose criticizing materialism would be hypocritical and also just unrealistic. 
 





