criticizing a society for being materialistic is not to be done because living situation changes along with the day to day life now a days we are in much need of materials and so of we become materialistic it can be both criticized and also be accepted it is a better truth to be accepted that the society become materialistic but only that cannot be life and people should come out of the materialistic world but it is a sad truth that we cannot come out of the materialistic world and so only we who can change it is each and evrery persons responsibility to change the society but just criticizing the society for materialistic is not fair.
But materialistic changes people more selfiesh and people becomes more materialist when there is an increased demand in their needs of the people so onl critizing the society to be materialistic is not such a good opinion for me it is all we to change the society we can not change it because there is an increase in demand so there is an increase in the people to become materialistic and but there are some chances to change the society from the materialistic world. Increase in need of more stuff more to be the world is materialistic. It can also be stated as adaption to the changing world. materialistic is not a bad thing but it can change some good habits or even the behaviour and character of a person it can change even an introvert person into extrovert and vise versa. it became one of the most vital part of  the people life. as of a coin have two sides same that materialist life have both good and bad side for a persons life it is not only for a single person but also to the whole society because people of now live a programmed and scheduled life and it may change to worse in the future and there is a little chance of changing this situation in future. the more stuff we need the more materialistic the people and gathering stuffs only does not refer to materislistics it also refer to some other needs too which can be essential or unnecessary that depends only on the person and the thing which can also be compared to the society for many reasons.
      AND THIS IS MY THOUGHT ABOUT SHOUL MODERN SOCIETY BE CRITICIZED FOR BEING MATERIALISTIC?.
   I think this was an essay upto my thoughts about materislistic society.
    The final conclusion is the more demands that we have in our needs the more materialistic we would me to the society and inperson.
      And this is my conclusion.
