In life we're all presented with various paths to happiness, and the varying levels of it. 
The question many people have lived with and perhaps have died pursuing is what exactly makes me happy?
With an infinite number of answers, and so limited of a span of time to decide a vast number of people have
passed on pondering the question.
Some may never have the answer due to choice paralysis, or the wrong path chosen as happiness can at times
be a moving target.
There are two stances that stand out amongst the sea of choices when looked at, at length; Is it better to only pursue
my own goals, or would my happiness stem from the serving of others to bring them joy and happiness?

To narrow this down this ocean of choices down, I'll examine which side of the coin I believe is the right choice.
This is independent of any mental health insight, as I am not a medical professional, however depression and
a host of other mental illness, or chemical dependencies can affect the choice of which stance is the right one.
I'll only be speaking from a person who is strictly factoring in just the two options of whether to serve oneself, 
or to serve others in terms of what makes you happiest.

In my personal experiences, I have been on both sides of the coin. I have often pursued just my own interests
in the pursuit of happiness, and I have been of great help to others and bringing them joy. Both present equally
beneficial outcomes. 
With the pursuit of my own goals and interests I've gotten things accomplished that I set out for myself and that
I wanted. I've acquired things I dreamt of, felt the happiness that comes with knowing I can set a goal and achieve it.
With putting people first and bringing them happiness I've seen smiles I can't help but remember when times are hard.
I've been remembered by people who I thought had long forgotten who I was as time has gone on, simply because I cared,
I helped. The happiness of knowing you're loved and appreciated is unlike any other you can obtain.
As I've said, both have their merits and rewards, and both have a place in the overall make up of a life's happiness, however
as I can only choose one I must say that pursuing your own goals is the more consistent of the two and likely to lead to more
happiness in the end.

It may sound cold, but keep in mind there are many factors that go into this decision, and it wasn't an easy one to make.
When in pursuit of your own goals that you set out for yourself, whether it's a lifelong dream, or a small goal you've set for the
week you have a constant exchange and tally of wins and losses with a clear end goal. With the happiness of others there's much
more ambiguity in where that line is for your happiness. Are you happy with how much you've helped? Could you do more?
Are they really happy, or are they just saying it?
Whereas with your goals, you set the goal, you achieve the goal, you're happy and you set the next goal. You may find happiness along the way as well, with new developments or your own reaching of your pursuits sped up by actions you've taken and dictate.
I feel that it's more concrete, and something tangible and trackable. You hold yourself accountable as you're the one that knows what the end result should and could be. There's a strength to accomplishing goals you've set out that amplifies your happiness and confidence, allowing the next goal to be more easily obtained.

Some may argue that bringing happiness to others is it's own reward, which in itself is true and it's a wonderful reward that does bring happiness, but in order for that happiness to be consistent you must always have people to bring happiness too, which in turn brings you your happiness. Sometimes the memories can be obscured by time, and not feel the same as when you've successfully made someone else happy at the time. Relationships change, and it may tinge your memories of the event in a different shade that can turn into a bit of sadness or bittersweet rememberance.
There are arguments that the more you help others, the more you help yourself and the thoughts of you spread through word of mouth or by other means, bringing more people to you for help, however that too can become a burden.
You may be stretched too thin having to bring happiness to so many people at once that may desperately need it, and make you feel guilty, ultimately taking away from your overall happiness. Something you feel as beneficial may suddenly turn into something you can no longer maintain.
When looking at my stance, people may see it as selfish and I can see that outlook on it, but I implore those people to look deeper into what I'm saying.
All I'm saying is the pursuit of your personal goals is more consistent and brings you more happiness over strictly serving other people and bringing them happiness. Happiness can be such a fickle thing, easily forgotten. Hard to maintain, but when you're in control of it, it's not selfish it's properly analyzing what you need to maintain your happiness and having the correct means to go about it. Nobody else can live for you, nobody else has control over your happiness but you. As I've said before happiness is a moving target, so you must therefore always be on the move in order to maintain it and cultivate it. Having trackable progress bolsters that mindset, progress you can only track when you're in the driver's seat, eliminating all other variables.

To conclude the things I've touched on and elaborated upon in this essay, I'd like to say that happiness may not be a concrete thing for many people. Many may find it in bringing happiness and joy to others, and they may find it pretty consistent however, people cannot live your life for you, and only living to bring happiness to other people leaves you with no sense of how to acquire it, should you need it when other people aren't around to please. That can negatively affect your happiness, and make it harder for you to stand on your own in terms of how much happiness you feel you need to go through life. 
I also truly feel that happiness is greatly augmented when shared, but it can be greatly dimished when dependent on outside variables that you've no control over in the end. Therefore your pursuit of happiness with personal goals is strictly controlled by you and no one else. So even when you're alone, you can still gain happiness and maintain it. People will not always be around, but they are important, but you cannot help anyone else if you cannot help yourself first. It is still my belief that personal goals will bring you more happiness in the end strictly based on these facts. 
