Is a human an independent being with free will or just as programmable as a computer? Have you ever asked yourself about it, looking at the ads or reading the news? Maybe, such an  approach seems strange to you, or maybe a chosen topic is anoppropriate, but I will try my best to express my opinion in this essay.
Here, in MTurk, we do a lot of written exercises and consumer researchers, that can invoke a bitter feeling. Day after day, people of marketing try to find the key to human mind. They look for a form drawing customers attention, they look for a sound pleasant for our ears, they investigate how sertain mood, news, situation, even weather influence our behavior. So people become programable, they live and function according certain algoriths, unknown, unconcious to themselves. Some people believe, we're free and do everything according to our will or desires, choosing between sides, that modern world it too transparent for a big lie. I would say it is possible to form our attitude to certain brands and events, using media tricks.  
As I mentioned in your enrollment form, I am from Russia and know a lot about propaganda and "forming attitude" to entire countries. But also I've mentioned that I left Russia 8 years ago, before anti-Ukranian propaganda began. It was really weird when people in web started to change their opinion, speak agressive against brother nation (and I grew up with the idea that Russians and Ukranians are brothers, even my mom was born in Ukraine, she never spoke against Russians). I never watched actul TV programs, that were washing brains of Russia population during the last 8 years. But it turned out that goverment propaganda worked. All that pictures, fakes and lies formed the image of enemy that Russians need to fight.
One more thing is a "CNN effect", that is connected to using images in news and social media. When there's a picture of distruction, people suffering, refugees, bodies on the street all the world is shaken by that atrocity. But Russian people don't see those images, don't read such news, all indepent media left the country, so who will help them see the truth? My conclusion is, people are programmable, and it's a bigger danger that one could imagine thinking about stores and ads.
