Materalism is considered a widely controversial trait for one individual to possess, but it's not entirely harmful to have this kind of outlook on life and in this essay I will explain why I believe that is to be the case. Everyone at some point was tempted by the prospect of owning something that seems exclusive to oneself, I would argue that it's human nature to yearn for something outside of your reach, or that is hard to acquire. Not only is exclusivity a good way for people to feel good about themselves, it also propels other hobbies or businesses to stay afloat as there is an abundance of arguably useless materialistic things that rely on peoples sense of materialism.

There are plenty of ways people gain satisfaction from spending their money on things, we as individuals look for things on a constant basis to turn our attention to so we can distract from the inevitable wave of boredom and monotony in our day to day lives. Comparatively to a lot of other hobbies or habits, materialism is harmless unless you're spending money that you can not afford to lose. For example, your mother may want want some jewelry for her birthday, it may not help her in any way but it's something she desires and if you give her it she'll be ecstatic and may consider the gift to be the highlight of her day. Human emotions are valuable, and if improvements on said emotions don't rely on drugs and alcohol, peoples anger towards materialsm may be better spent towards a different avenue.

Plenty of businesses, more on the art or luxury service side, rely on peoples desire or materialistic desires to keep themselves afloat in an economy. More businesses leads to more workers, and a more healthy money flow in our economy. Sure, it may seem redundant for someone to purchase a sports car such as a Lamborghini, however if not for their absurd price and the desire to own such a luxury vehicle, then production of them would cease and not only will companies associated with those cars not exist, jobs won't and concepts such as a fast comfort vehicle will never be expanded upon and will be stunted until peoples interest return. It's easy for one to say they don't care and we'd be better off without such companies, but I'd argue that they are thinking in a very selfish way, as they aren't the ones being hurt by the end of the day if they don't choose to indulge in those types of pleasantries, as if those pleasantries don't exist plenty of people will be out of work and struggling to make ends meet.

In conclusion, society is being too stingy on the concept of people enjoying the finer things and opportunities in life that involve being materialistic. If we turn our attention to other more dangerous addictions that don't involve materialistic things, we as a society would likely improve and people can continue living their lives to the best of their ability to hopefully maintain a worthwhile livestyle for themselves.
