Although the culture and dominant ideology we live under teach us that competition is the human norm and the source of greatest productivity, this perspective is ahistorical and based almost entirely on a focus on the past few hundred years of Western history. 

Hobbesian thinkers like Steven Pinker assert that we have been mostly competitive and noncooperative throughout human history, until recently Western social models like "democratic capitalism" were able to harness the competitive instinct for positive ends and put it to use in non-destructive ways. But this is a gross oversimplification. For most of history, the dominant mode of organization was either hunter-gatherer bands or stateless villages, in which property was largely communal and levels of violence between social units were fairly low. Even as people concentrated into larger, city-sized units in alluvial areas, permanent social stratification only developed in places where climate changes "caged" populations so that they were unable to retreat into foraging or less "legible" (in James Scott's terminology, less subject to monitoring and control from above) forms of agriculture. Michael Mann and David Graeber have both marshalled a wide array of anthropological and historical evidence to confirm this thesis. So violent, authoritarian forms of social organization were uncharacteristic of the species, emerged only in a small number of places under unusual circumstances, and then spread from there.
For most of history, economic organization was largely cooperative. The dominant model of land ownership was communal, with eminent title vested in the village community, clan, tribe, extended family, etc., and individual or household claims being only possessory and periodically reassigned. This model includes the Jubilee system of the Judges in Israel, Marx's so-called "Asiatic mode," and the open-field system of medieval Europe (which persisted in Russia, as the Mir, into the 20th century).
Artisan production in villages and towns might be competitive to the extent that multiple actors produced for the same market. But even their competitive relations were embedded in -- and restrained by -- a customary social framework.
Such predominantly cooperative economic models were not supplanted, as in the conventional account, by the spontaneous or natural emergence of capitalist society. They were violently suppressed by Enclosures and other expropriations of land, by the imposition of cash-nexus economies (as recounted by Graeber, by assessing taxes in specie and paying troops in the same), and by the use of violence to force people into the wage system (e.g. vagrancy laws, the English Laws of Settlement and Combination Laws, etc.).
Behind the neoliberal ideology, corporate capital does not actually practice competition. It relies on state-enforced monopolies and entry barriers -- e.g. intellectual property, absentee title to engrossed land, etc. -- to suppress competition and enable the extraction of economic rents. Internally, the large corporation relies on systematically organized cooperative labor by its workers, but encloses it within corporate walls by means of a state-enforced legal structure to enable the extraction of rents from their cooperative labor and social intellect.
But the authoritarian capitalist framework prevents the most effective use of even this cooperative labor. Technological advances have taken place largely through stigmergic coordination of research, and the free sharing of information so that people are able to make use of each other's work and new innovations become the property of the community. Corporate walls and intellectual property rights act as toll-gates that impede the sharing of information, and thwart the "shoulders of giants" effect that human progress results from.
In addition, the authoritarian hierarchy of the corporation impedes even internal cooperation between its own workers. Because the hierarchy exists to shift effort and blame downward and shift benefits upward, workers know that any benefit to productivity they create will be expropriated and used against them in the form of speedups, downsizings, or larger profits and management compensation. Authority relations inevitably create massive information distortions and irrationalities from perverse incentives.
So while we're taught from childhood that human beings are naturally competitive and that progress comes from competition, it just ain't so. Even the competitive capitalist system is parasitic on human cooperation -- it just makes really inefficient use of it. We're more bonobo than chimp.
