  In society, competing with others is just as important as cooperating with others. People tend to bring the best out each other when they compete and they can often bring the best end result when they cooperate to complete for example, projects they are working on. So which one truly results in more success?
  Choosing whether competing with someone or cooperating with someone resulting in being more successful depends on different circumstances. You can say that when two people compete with one another, they force themselves to fight for more. Competing can push people to their limits and sometimes beyond them. Individual competitions can be just as effortful as group competitions with the stakes being similarily as high. When it comes to cooperation, individuals work together usually for the same outcome. Cooperation requires people to be on the same page or at least have an understanding for what the end goal is together. Whether it's working on a project together such as building a garage or solving a mathematical problem, cooperation is often a joint process. Competition and cooperation have their similarities and differences in how people proceed under their rules. 
   Dating back over centuries, people have competed over land in wars, in sporting events, over resources, and all kinds of things which have changed the course of our life on Earth. On the other hand, there have been times where people have cooperated to build cities and change the landscape of the world we live in. You can find architecture that was built going back thousands of years ago. The pyramids in Egypt were certainly not built by one person and required cooperation to have them stand above ground. Workers helped move stone together because of how heavy they were. They were able to stack them with the combination of strength of all of them combined. If I had to choose which one results in more success, I would have to agree that cooperating with others can have the best end result simply because one person cannot get everything done. There is a quote and phrase from a professional football coach named Doug Pederson that says everything you need to know about cooperation. He said basically one person can make a difference, but a group of men can make a miracle. And this is exactly why I believe cooperation pays off with more success when it's all said and done. 
  Can competition result in more success than cooperating with other? It sure can in many situations that require competing over cooperating. For example, there can be two male wolves trying to compete with each other over who is the dominant male when a female wolf is ready to breed. The dominant one ends up winning a tussle and in the end, they achieve success of breeding with that female. This type of event among animals especially has been deemed as a main cause of what is known as natural selection. Sometimes competing with others can bring the ultimate effort out of you and your peers. You push yourself beyond what you thought you were capable of. The success you achieve because of that can stretch further and prove that competition makes everyone stronger in the end. Cooperation does not always end well when two people trying to come up with solutions don't stretch the imagination more than they could have individually. 
   In the end, I believe that between competing and cooperating in life, cooperation is what I believe has the edge over competiting because it takes a team to win it all. One person can really do a lot on their own, but together with others we have seen the world drastically evolve and change over time. One person did not build the world we see now. One person needed help from another person and those two people needed help from another pair of individuals. I believe that cooperating with others directly results in a larger portion of success, even though competition can bring the best out of people as well by pushing them as far as and beyond their limits. As the saying goes, two brains are better than one. 
