Happiness is a very personal thing. Some people find that material things make them happy. Others find that the love and support of people close to them makes them truly happy. Still others discover that traveling the world, or experiencing new things is their route to happiness. Finally, people find that being surrounded by happy people, or making others happy, makes them happy. In reality, it is likely a mixture of these things that makes any one individual truly happy. It is likely that if you asked people what their main goal in their life is, they would respond with some variation of "to be happy" or "to make my family happy."

In order to understand what makes people happy, we must first describe happiness. In biological terms, happiness is determined by the chemistry of the reward pathway in our brains; in order to do things that are good for us, our brain rewards us by making us feel happy. From a more philisophical standpoint, happiness could be described as a feeling of satisfaction or well-being. Some people describe feeling happy as feeling warm, or content. In general, there is short-term and long-term happiness. An example of short-term happiness is the feeling of satisfaction of eating your favorite meal, or talking to someone that you like. Long-term happiness is more ethereal; it is a general satisfaction with the state of things, whether that is in your own life, in the life of those close to you, or something similar. Short-term happiness seems to feed into long-term happiness; if you are consistently happy in the short-term, you are more likely to be happy in the long-term. This isn't always strictly true, however. For example, a gluttonous binge of food, drinks, or drugs could make someone feel happy in the short-term, but may lead to loss of satisfaction in the long term. Therefore, it seems that long-term happiness is harder to achieve than just constantly doing things that make you happy in the short-term.

In order to achieve fulfilling, long-term happiness, one needs to find out what will make them feel satisfied with their life. This is easier said than done; how can someone know what will make them happy without first achieving that thing? One might think that something will make them happy, but feel unfulfilled once it has been achieved. In a person's life, their experiences are the thing that guides them through this process. Once someone has accumulated enough experience of feeling happy or unhappy, they learn what causes these feelings. Some of these feelings are guided by our innate intuition which has been honed through evolution; achieving adequate food, shelter, and socialization makes us happy because our brains have evolved to make us seek these things to maximize our evolutionary fitness. 

One way that people achieve long-term happiness is by working on personal goals that they have set. By working hard to make themselves into a more perfect version of themselves, they can both feel good about the progress they make, and gain additional material things and opportunities that will make their lives naturally happier. For example, someone could decide to go to school, get a job in a career field that they like, and make a good wage. This will allow them to spend more time doing things they like, both in their work and in their personal life. This person will likely be happier than a person who struggles to pay their bills, and works in a field that they dislike. Other people can set smaller goals such as getting in shape, socializing more, or learning a new skill. These things also let that person feel good about the work that they are doing for themselves, and can unlock other avenues of happiness by allowing one to fill their time with more enjoyable activities.

Another way to achieve happiness is by devoting your time to making other people happy. This can often have the most profound effects when one focuses on making those around them happy. If you are living with someone, and that person is generally happier, it is likely to have a positive effect on your own mood. There will be less stress in the immediate environment, and you can enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that those you are close to are happy. Ensuring that those you care about are happy will also make you happy for the same reason. Even keeping your pet happy can have positive effects on your happiness. Knowing that you have a positive influence in the lives of others, and that others depend on you and enjoy your presense is innately fulfilling to us as humans.

Which of these ways is most effective for each individual is innately personal. Some people enjoy keeping large social circles; that person might enjoy more long-term happiness by focusing on the happiness of others. Other people enjoy their personal time and being individual; that person might have more long-term happiness by focusing on their own goals. Ultimately, however, I believe that making other people happy depends on you, yourself, being as happy as possible. There are plenty of stories of people burning themselves out and becoming miserable by spending all of their time thinking about other people. However, living a hermetic life and solely focusing on self-improvement will also likely lead to burn-out and a lack of fulfillment and joy. Therefore, there is a balance to be struck. However, I believe that focusing on the happiness of others at the cost of focusing on your own self-improvement is putting the cart before the horse. If you are unhappy, becoming happy is often its own long-term goal. This will depend on other, shorter-term goals, that will involve personal goals that are individual to the person in question. One of these goals may be to make others around you happy. However, there will likely be other, more personal goals that you will also want to achieve. Therefore, making other people happy will just be one step into making yourself happy.

Ultimately, happiness is personal and somewhat subjective. Only you can determine if you are truly happy. Sometimes, you might think that you are happy, but you aren't. Other times, you might second guess your happiness and believe that you should be happier than you are. Finding fulfillment comes from experience, and experience comes from trial and error. Trying things, being introspective about your own state of happiness, and getting yourself closer to what your experience tells you makes you happy is what will lead to true, long-term happiness. Focusing on the happiness of those around you could be one of the things that will lead you on that path, but it will likely be one of many things. Therefore, only setting carefully constructed goals, wrought from consideration and experience, will lead to happiness.
