Materialism is an emphasis on, and a desire for, material things - stuff you want to own - and shelling out money to do it. Some naysayers think materialism is focused on way too much in modern society. I agree that some folks are focused, even obsessed, in getting, having, wallowing in goodies. But my position is to look on material things, particularly money, as a means to an end, not the end in and of itself.

I didn't start out that way. When I was young, and got my first job and my first regular paychecks, having money was a heady thing. For the first time, if I saw something I wanted, I could get it, and it was mine, all mine! I did a lot of spending back then, acquiring tokens of my love of movies and filmmaking - posters, scripts, t-shirts, memorabilia. I bought nice clothes. It was fun to have, rather than to want. When I married and got a house, I spend a lot of bucks making it my dream house. But things change, times get lean, the career doesn't go the way you envisioned...and there's less disposable money. That's when I started looking at things differently. I was limited by, not my lack of things, but my lack of money. I had medical bills. I had geriatric cats who needed special care. I had a stalled career. My choices became severely limited, because of lack of money. Sure, I had my dream house, and my memorabilia collection, but I was stuck, limited by my lack of funds. So material things became much less important, while cash money became, not a path to riches, but to independence, and the freedom to choose. So my viewpoint now is, you don't need a lotta stuff to be happy. But you do need money to be independent, not imprisoned by materialism and some need to add to all the stuff gathering dust in your storage unit.

There are surely many who think differently than I do. Get that Lexus! Take those $5000 vacations! Wallow in the money you've earned, flaunt it! Let your possessions define you to the rest of the world! It's a moral imperative in a democracy, isn't it? The goal of being filthy rich, overweight from all that expensive food, your Facebook sagging with the weight of all those travel pictures you posted. Right? That's the ultimate? Sure, some people might be happy oozing wealth, or scrabbling to get to that magical level of wealthy oozing. If that makes them happy, all power to them. It is not my place to criticize them for their life choices. (Even if they judge me poorly for not having their values.)

But my lean times taught me more about being happy without "things." My cats were far more important to me than a 2nd car or an extra room, or that landscaping I wanted to put in, or that trip I wanted to take. It was tough at first, setting aside my dreams of material nirvana to pay vet or dentist bills. But I adjusted, and downscaled. As a result, I find a lot more contentment without that obsession for things. I focus on what I have, not what I lack. And my life is much more peaceful. Now, if I sell that big script, I'll take the money and set up a secure, simple life, and help others with the largesse I have earned, rather than pissing it all away on expensive junk I don't need. No matter how much money I have, what I'll really have is peace of mind, freedom, and choice. I think in the long run I'll have a lot more joy and a lot less worry.

So while some judgmental types might disparage modern society for its sometimes unhealthy focus on spending money and acquiring goodies, I don't, because I see it both ways. I've been on both sides of the discussion. Cool expensive stuff is, well, cool. But a healthy, happy, beloved cat is way more valuable to  me these days. I guess that makes me a throwback, or a dunce (if I have the money to spend). But I think it makes me...free, independent, content.
