   On January sixth of 2021, a mob of angry Trump supporters stormed the US Capital building in an attempt to overthrow a free and fair election.  While the full scale of this attack and the repurcussions our nation will experience have yet to be seen, one thing is perfectly clear: this mob was not motivated by facts or truth but by superficial appearances and lies.  While the attempted insurrection is a very extreme example of false impressions effecting real world events, this is a problem which everybody experiences in small ways every single day.  In this essay, I will outline the common ways that you and I are probably forming false impressions of the world and what I believe should be done about it.

  As I am writing this essay, I have seen a disturbing number of "thirsty" posts on Twitter about the serial killer Ted Bundy.  As easy as it may be to pass this off as a sign of our sex-obsessed age, it's a well documented phenomenon that goes back through much of human history.  The so called "halo effect" shows repeatedly in controlled expermients and analysis of criminal trials that attractive people are thought to be better than ugly ones.  In this way, the jury's perception of a person effects the reality of the person.  They're attractive, so they get a lesser prison sentence.

  This effect doesn't just occur when we're judging other people, either.  One notorious behavioral experiment gave volunteers two identical pieces of fudge.  One of those pieces was shaped like candy, but the other was coiled up like a piece of dog poop.  Even though both of these pieces of candy were the same, the one shaped like dog poop was consistently scored as tasting worse.  The volunteers' perception of the candy colored how they actually experienced it.

  With these two examples, it could be easy to assume that there is no viable action we can take to limit the degree to which false perceptions are coloring peoples' lives.  Thankfully, this is not the case.  There are a few very simple measures that we can take to help counteract this issue, and some of them are already beginning to be implemented.  During the Covid-19 pandemic, major tech companies like Google and Facebook began to call out verifiable misinformation on their sites.  While this likely does little to change the minds of people already convinced of false ideas, it can help to prevent their spread.  The Netflix documentary Behind the Curve talks about how many Flat Earth conspiracy theorists were convinced of this false idea by Youtube videos.  If Youtube called out those false videos earlier, many of these people may not have been convinced in the first place.

  Perhaps the most important area where impressions incorrectly color our world is in job interviews and criminal trials.  Attractive people are given preferential treatment in both of these areas over similar unattractive people.  The simplest way to prevent this would be to simply not show the accused criminal or the job applicant at all.  Teleconferencing software has proven itself to be a workable solution for job interviews, and protected witnesses have testified behind a shroud of secrecy in criminal trials before.  There's no reason why a person's appearance should effect how long they spend in jail or whether or not they can get a decent job after they're released.

  I hope that I've impressed upon you the importance of this issue.  False perceptions are quickly becoming more important to this world than the verifiable reality of the world.  There are some simple ways that we can take action against this issue, and we desperately need to take them.  Every day, attractive criminals are given lighter sentences than unattractive ones, unattractive job seekers are denied jobs that they would have gotten if they were more attractive, and misinformation that "seems true" to the uninformed pushes extremists further from reality.  We saw on January 6th how serious these effects can be if they aren't controlled.  I hope we don't have to see it again in four years.
