What do you value the most in life? Is it your religion? Your spouse? You family and friends? Your possessions? Nowadays this matter of our material possessions is so important to so many. There is this idea that our material possessions define who we are and whether or not we are succeeding in this life. Everyone seems to be striving to aquire the newest, most expensive, attractive products. Besides through material products people also seem to feel as if their status is determined by the amount of money they make. What do you feel defines you?

Today, more than ever, people define themselves based on their acquired possessions and financial standing. You may say that today's society is materialistic, meaning that a vital source of happiness in people's lives today are their material and financial attainment. As time goes on we see that people are striving to gain more and more material possessions by gaining more and more spending money, and the more they obtain the more they feel they will find their happiness in life. But, is this actually the case? If that is the case then where does it end?

The question now is should society be criticized for being too materialistic? That is for you to decide. Today most people spend all of their time and energy to accummulate more and more physical things. There is the producing and consuming of material possessions. Instead of living a life of enjoyment by experiencing different things or traveling to different places we accummulate all of these items that sit in our houses, or are used to showcase to people outwardly that we are "successful". Does this really bring in happiness? True happiness and comfort? Maybe for a short time but there definitely isn't lasting enjoyment because if there was there wouldn't be the need to continue to accummulate more and more. 

Not only do people tend to accummulate more products as they go on, but there is also the matter of the increased output of upgraded products. Even the items that people do have, if they strive to keep up with the newest and trendiest products, they are continually buying objects to achieve this "happiness" they so deeply desire. As I said earlier, where does this end? When is the happiness reached? When do you reach the point of having gained all you need, or when have you reached the amount of spending money you have always wanted? We don't want to be those who waste our life away by using all of our time and energy to gain these things that don't add to lasting memories that will bring us true joy.

Although this matter of materialism is very contraversial we need to see that in today's society this is what people value. Many people criticize and even condemn materialism but this is where we are as a society today. People live lives that consist of accummulating material possessions and spending money so that they can find happiness and accummulate more and more stuff.
