Should modern society be criticized for being too materialistic? 

Materialism breeds creativity, innovation and the emergence of products that employ millions around the world. Materialsm feeds families. The accumluation of "stuff" can mean infinite things: a present to signify an important birthday or anniversary, the begining of shared possesions that mark the start of a marraige, a treat or retail therapy. 

As Madonna once said "We are living in a material world". The Sound of Music gave tribute to "My Favorite Things" in song. 

Is it so wrong to reward our forward trajectory in life with prizes, possesions, tokens and the like? Without materialism we would not have the culture of "gifting" or rewarding our own hard work with purchasees from our hard earn paychecks. The satisfaction of earning our way up a tax bracket to buy the things we always dreamed of. 

There is a counter argument according to infinate podcasts, minimalism blogs and "buy nothing" movements for the argument of owning as little thigns as possible to the true path forward to happyness. 

Why not live and let live? 

Want to live minimal? Go for it. Noone is stopping you. 

There is subsequently a growing movement of accumulatiing experiences over things. Memories over mementos. Capsule wardrobes that consist of no more than ten pieces of clothing to create multiple outfits. Apparently, Martha Stewart is a fan. 

But shouldn't it be a personal choice to accumulate or not? To condemn materialism outright is to censor inventors, designers and the like. Why put a cap on what a forward thinking human being can create, invent and put out in the market? Why punish those who wish to reward their own hard work with a purchase? 

As long as we recycle, regift, and reuse, is the accumilation of stuff really so evil? Is it materialism that is so wrong, or is it where the materials eventually end up? Or the backs of labor on which these objects, keepsakes and luxury cars? Can we stand for fair trade, workers rights and environmental responsibility while also acknowledging that accumulating things in exchange for hard work has it's merits? 

If we demonize the material girls, boys and others of the world, we must demonize the collectors of the world. The quirky stamp collectors, comic collectors, collectors of vinyl. The historians who dedicate enrtire spaces to archive the dresses of Marilyn Monroe or the showgirls of yesteryear. We must condemn the museuams who "hang on to stuff". The archivists. Or any other sector of society that revolves and eveolves around a growing number of objects. 

Materialsm can be a great testement to the celebration of inventions. The rejoicing of an idea and a respecting of the process that takes an onject from idea, to drawing board to inventions. 

If you don't like materialism, the answer is simple. 

Don't be materialistc. 

But for those of us who light up at the sound of a credit card receipt running through the machine, or the look on a childs face when we gift a toy, or the feeling of sheer joy we get when our hands are on the steering wheel of our dream car- all of these things illicit dopamine which is a key ingredient to happiness. This goes back to caveman times where the collection of rocks, branches and natural elements were turned into artifcats that we admire at today's musuems. Yes, even our prehistoric counterparts were collectors and materialistic in their own right. 

It could be said that materialism quite simply is human nature. It is in our DNA. 
 
Our designers, retail workers, inventors, shareholders, and consumers deserve a home. 
