What is the true source of happiness?  That's a question better left to philosophers but I believe that lasting happiness comes from providing happiness to others.

There are many ways to think about what makes a person happy.  Some derive happiness from accomplishments.  Some think that it's not the end result but the effort taken to reach that accomplishment is the true source of joy.  I think those methods might be fleeting.  My view is that if the people around you are happy and you can take at least some small amount of credit for that,  that's the happiness that will encompass your whole life.

Think about it this way.  When you accomplish a goal, you feel exhilarated.  But with time that exhilaration lessens and you have to find a new goal to complete to experience that exhilaration again.  I'm not saying that isn't worthwhile but it's temporal in nature.  You only get that true feeling of happiness a few times per year.  On the other hand, small acts of kindness even to people you don't know can give you a warm feeling of joy many times in a single day. It's difficult not to feel happy when someone smiles at you because you've been helpful to them or even just showed them some courtesy and consideration.

The question becomes which is better?  I maintain those small daily moments of happiness outweigh those singular moments of exhilaration.  These daily moments aren't huge and life changing but they are much more easily attained.  For example, helping someone out at the store who is short on their bill.  Stopping to help someone change a tire.  The exact act isn't really important.  Even something as simple as giving someone directions can be a source of satisfaction.  I guess that what I'm trying to say is that happiness is something that really can't be measured in degrees.  So is it better to experience small amounts of happiness every day through an almost infinite variety of ways or is it better to lump all that together and experience it all at once through one event?  I'll take the small satisfactions that leave me feeling happy every day.
