There's a debate over whether people achieve more through competition, or through cooperation. Which do you think it is? Do you think it's competition? Or cooperation? I'm sure the majority will say that competition is the best was to achieve more and to be more successful. I'm going to go against the flow though. I believe that people can achieve sucess through both, but they'll be more successful through cooperation. I know that may sound unheard of, but let me explain!

Success through competition might be more fun sometimes, but it has its drawbacks. Some people, when competing, may take things too far. Low blows may be dealt which can cause conflict among the people within the competition. This can lead to harsh feelings toward each other. With competition, you also have people who are only trying to push their own ideas as the solution, and are therefore presenting reasons for the opposing ideas to be invalid. Additionally, in competition, each team is thinking of only their own view point. This can lead plausible solutions to be overlooked.

Cooperation is better to use if people want to achieve success that results in significant and lasting accomplishments. When people cooperate, they are working as a team in which everyone is looking to reach the same end goal. Also, when cooperation is used, those who are working as a team are putting their heads together to share and discuss ideas that could be beneficial to the end goal. Problems can be prevented when ideas are shared and discussed. When people work together, they can share what they see as successful ideas as well as what they see as potential problems that can arise from certain ideas. What person A. might not be able to see, person B. or C. might be able to see and present to person A.  Working together collectively draws more success. 

Through cooperation, everyone works together to achieve success and claim victories. Additionally, when using cooperation, people are more content with no hard feelings towards one another because every person is working together to achieve their end goal. It makes logical sense that cooperation works better at achieving success as opposed to using competition to achieve it. 
