Cooperation and competition both are great motivations on ways to achieve success, however there is one that outshines the other. Cooperation seems to be more optimal than competition in the vast majority of things as long as there's the same amount of motivation for success in both routes. With cooperation, you are able to bounce ideas off someone, collaborate together and let the better of your skills magnify without the flaws having to be displayed. Like the old saying goes two heads are better than one, I am an agreement with that and multiple people with the drive to success seems more efficient than someone motivated by rivalry or an ulterior motive.


I can see why competition could be the case though, as it's not uncommon for either to be a way of motivation for success. I think the biggest appeal of  competition is it would be easier to motivate someone if they're in a competition for something that is important to both of them, but at the same time that's flawed in the since if you're going to be going at it alone, if you reach a part where it's too complicated or you fall behind in your rivalry in your head, the motivation and drive could easily go away without anyone to push you back up. If you are serious about success, there's going to be times you might have to do something out of your comfort zone or something brave and defying, and it just seems to much to do it by yourself the risks are much higher than the reward. The most compotent of people will think competition is best because success is all they've known in life. Which goes back to the first point, if there's a point in whatever you're doing and it gets to a point you don't know how to advance, the fire that burns by competition will easily get snuffed out.


Both are choices that have been used and will be used for countless years, but I think with anything, having a support group, having a family that supports you,  it's always benefitial to be alligned with competent people you can trust and pick up the slack when you're having an off day or it's a difficult time/subject for you.  Even the world's smartest man has read several books, had teachers, and pressumably still learns stuff from other people, it's just a common thing to always learn and have a set of good skills. Align the good skills with someone who has the features you lack, and that's benefitial to everyone. Regardless of what really motivates someone for success there will be obstacles, but it's more likely if you're surrounded by competent people that the obstacles would be easier to conquer with multiple people helping. 
