People cannot achieve success through self-reliance alone; the involvement of others is integral to any type of success. Historically, people have worked either with one another or against each other in order to find success or to reach a goal. However, most of recorded history that involves either type of work (together v. separate competition) does not fall into either category; rather, events tend to be a mixture of the two or have a good chance at being one or the other. Competition, though, tends to drive people to become more successful in their endeavors than through cooperation with other people alone, as it involves a simple psychological drive to succeed, provides opportunities for growth, and is one of the best ways to reveal a person's character; competition therefore allows people to become better human beings.
Dating back to ancient Rome and Greece, the olympics persists as an expected event, held every 4 years, with multiple sport competitions. Though sports have evolved since then, the roots of olympic games and the competition as a whole remain back in that area of the world at that time before common era. Humans have such an intense interest in olympic games and sporting events that not only do thousands train and participate, but millions, even billions, more people watch them when they are held. There is even a worldwide winter olympics game held in the interim, 2 years after the previous primary olympic games. The intense drive toward success is bolstered by the fact that these athletes work to represent their own country, sometimes even as a part of a team. Competition is not always inherently between two or more individuals and could actually easily include a form of cooperation and relationship-building between the people who are on one side of an issue. Further, this team work may actually make it easier for a team to succeed due to their familiarity with their peers and willingness to compromise with them. For instance, the 2020 American Women's Gymnastics team was notorious for having strong interpersonal bonds during the olympic games; gymnast Simone Biles worked hard with her team to win medals during the olympics when they were held, and has since faced some serious health issues. After a teammate competed in her place, she faced social media scrutiny and backlash for stepping out of that race, and many were quick to criticize her for "allowing" her teammate to win a place that could have easily been her own. However, Biles later would state that she was proud of her teammate and harbored no ill feelings toward her, as they were a part of a strong team. Competition like the olympics, then, is not only something that draws people to become successful, but is a great way for people to build relationships. 
Further, many competitions contain aspects of self-evaluation that are necessary for an individual or a team to succeed. Throughout grade school, especially in western countries and specifically in the United States of America, students are pitted against one another in class rankings to see who achieves the highest grades. These grades are recorded for the duration of their school career and are submitted to colleges and universities as they exit high school or secondary school. The students, though, who endure this kind of competition, who have a drive to achieve a top score in their class, need to have a system of self-evaluation so that they can ensure they maintain or achieve such a good spot. Report cards, for instance, are a great way that students may do this; not only can high-achieving students see their strong points and areas of improvement, but lower-performing students may as well. Seeing the grade one achieves in this way can in fact be a major motivator for these children to improve their knowledge and skills. In addition, this sort of evaluation is the foundation for many of the tasks they may face in their adult life, including credit scores or job reviews. People are taught, then, from a young age, that reflection is a needed part of success, and can use that knowledge to seek out growth and new opportunities from which they can learn.
Whether or not a person takes advantage of positive opportunities, however, may also reveal how they act and who they are on the inside. People may change as they grow, though often times, a great indicator of a person's future behavior are ways they behaved in the recent past. For instance, teachers in public schools in the USA are evaluated by their school administrators to determine whether or not they are a good fit for the subject, the department, the school, and even the district. Few teachers tend to lose jobs over these evaluations alone, though paired with the teacher's dedication to improve their craft, evaluations easily put teacher jobs at risk. Two teachers who receive similar scores during a midday classroom observation may not be a concern initially to their administration, though on further research done by their administration, one teacher may be revealed to copy the lesson of the other teacher. Alternatively, one teacher may take an opportunity to learn from professional development opportunities whereas the other teacher refused to do so. Sure, a person's job is not the only place where this kind of character counts, and extenuating circumstances are all too normal for a complex world such as the one everybody lives in, but these evaluations and competitions provide necessary information to determine who is more likely to succeed in specific areas. Humans do not have the luxury of simply knowing where they have areas for growth in any given competition, though evaluation and history of their own behaviors can provide this information so that they know whether or not their personality can endure different types of competition. Finally, this knowledge of a person's behavior inherently incorporates other people, requiring a level of cooperation that the competitor might be remiss without.
Competition does not always provide people with the best opportunities for success. Still, cooperation is a major part of most competitions, even ones with low-stakes and little to no adrenaline usage. Previously, competition has been used in many ways, including at the founding of the olympic games, which have since sparked other events and have maintained insterest in the human conscience for eras. Since, humans have grown to instill many forms of competition into their own children as soon as they enter public spaces, which helps many in learning necessary skills for self-growth and independence. As these individuals become adults, they learn how to interact with the world, especially as they enter a workforce. Success is largely personal, though not always, but cooperation within themselves and between others during competition, which will happen between humans regardless of how much many may hate it, allows for humans to become better people.
