Are we living in the matrix and don't even know it? Well doubtful but the world as we see it is not what the actual world is. Everyday millions of people put on a mask or rose colored glasses to hide the realities of the world.  What we see and what we think about what we see controls almost every aspect of our lives so makes sense we want to have a positive outlook. No one wakes up hoping to see or hear terrible things when we could have the option to look past it and enjoy the peace of not knowing. Images and impressions have far too much of an effect on the way people act and feel in today's world.

We as a society are too trusting of what we see and that is one of our greatest weaknesses. Millions of dollars are spent hourly to show the positive of products and services with little claim to be true. No one facts checks anything these days even know we have unlimited resources to do so in our pocket. It is just easier to believe than to go through the efforts to prove it wrong.  Even if we don't buy the product right away or even think the service is terrible we don't try to stop them spreading the false info.  It isn't until something really bad happens that people start to care about the truth which is not how things used to be.  There is almost no down-side to bend the truth to your side in the moment so why wouldn't a company do it.

Some may say there are regulations to stop companies and people from just falsly claiming things or spreading lies. This is technically true but you have to be forced to submit stuff to these places for them to do their job. Regulators have no control if there is a loop-hole that lets products skip that step.  It is all too easy to just write "Claims not evaluated by FDA" and start selling. Society for some reason or another has decided that seeing that label on a product is not a red flag anymore. If we don't give the regulators any power to force companies to come to them or allow them to interject into the sell/buy process then it's like they dont exsist.

Furthermore, With the internet and technology everything has gone digital. This is great for a lot of things but the one downside is we have made it almost too easy to manipulate this data.  We have made editing so easy you can do it with a click of a button thanks to machine learning. Things like deepfakes and everything being photo-shopped has made us second guess things online. This sounds good since we shouldn't beleive everything we read online but what has happened is we no longer beleive anything online. Even the facts are now considered questionable reguardless of how much proof there is.

Images and impressions are how we judge things and make decisions about everything from what shoe to buy to which canidate to elect for president.  It has become too easy to manipulate these impressions and images to the point that no one can tell what is real or fake. For this reason people have just started thinking whichever way they think it should be is the truth. That is now how the world works but it is how people now see it. Long gone are the days when you could read a paper for the news and not have to check 3 other sources to see if that actually happened. Images as we once knew them are gone and people should upgrade their views to not put so much weight on them. Just becase you see or hear something doesn't mean it is true but also doesn't mean its not. Have to take a step back and look at the big picture on almost everything in your daily life.
