I believe that images and impressions do in fact affect on people. If this was not case then advertizing would not be such a big industry.

I will site one example of what I just heared  about, the company Coke -Cola. It was formed in the late 1800's to sell a new drink invented by a phamacist named Pemberton. He want to see it as a cure all for some physical alments. But his bookkeeper had other idea, he coined the name coke-cola andt hen he began to market it. His idea paid off, it moved from a pharmacy to a drug stores (most of these had ice fountians).

Later on another idea they had was to bottle it and put into grocery stores and they starteed to advertize it, in fact at christmas time we saw Santa hold a bottle of coke. In fact during world war 2 coke sent sent this product to or men overseas and after the war everyone now knew about this product called coke-cola.

Next they starting show celebrities drinking coke-cola and even some sports stars, this left the impression that anyone who is anyone had to a coke-cola and they even put ads on some kids tv shows. This allowed youg people to want to drink a coke-cola and thus sales went. 

With all the advertizing on radio, movie theathers and tv, coke-cola may not have never been the product that it is today. So yes people do get impressed with images and impressions that they see on tv or the radio. There are many other companies out there that if they did not adverize there product they would never have grown to the size that they are today.

If you surf the internet today you will a lot of ads on alomst every website, why? Because this company'e will pay to have ther ads on this sites to attract sells. ads do influnce people on which product to buy when they go shopping.

Most parents want to buy something the think is wholseome for the children and if the ad implies that the product has been kid tested and mother improved then every mom wants to give to their kids.

So yes advertizers know and understand that they will impress the population with the ad they are creating and the images and music are a big part of that impression.


