Throughout time  humans have climbed the social structure by compentition, it is in fact a natural instict that is found amongst various species. However, there is another trait that humans used to become better suited in their enviorment. That is cooperation. Cooperation has helped humans share ideas and their labor to create complex systems and structures. Cooperation and Competition are both different types of actions, but both lead to similar results. Both forms of actions are driven to complete a goal. This raises the question, in order to find success does one need to cooperatate or compete? In this case Cooperation seems to be the better option. 

Cooperation by definition is working with others, instead of being solely independent in finding a soloution you work with others to find answers. This not only saves time, but it also creates an enviomrnet where ideas are shared. For example, schools and colleges are set up so there is a room of students and one teacher. Students help eachother when they don't understand a problem. In the work force, businesses hire multiple people and create group meetings where they discuss important matters when a decision needs to be made (ie, Solutions to profit margins being too low, how to advertise the product...). Countries were built by not one person but a group of people, this is seen throughout history from the ancient Mesopotamia civilizations to the Greeks and modern democratic societies like the United States.  

Some may argue that competiton is a better way to achieve success since it allows others to be driven to compete and improve themselves. In some ways this can work in situations where competition is mainly found, such as in sports, creative arts such as music and painting. However, this creates a toxic enviorment which can lead to unnecessary violence or hatred. Cooperation on the other hand is civil. The act of being civil is what we as a society decided was preferable, competition in some ways feels barbaric. Why improve yourself through violence when coopoerating can lead to similar results. Helping one another should be the goal, not fighting. 

Overall, cooperation is more likely to produce success. It is less risky unlike competition. It does not create a toxic enviorment. Society has been built based on cooperating with one another. Our current education and scientific findings were results of cooperation. It also drives us to be more civil. Which is why cooperation is better than competition. 


