We are living in a material world and i am a material girl, famous song by Modonna but highlights the truth of the world we live in. Incase you haven't noticed you have spent your entire life living and breathing in materialism no matter where you were born or who you become. Those new cloths you want, That bigger TV,  Those new tires your car needs, and that video game you must play with and that new book you must read are all materialism. But is it a bad thing? i don't think so.

Materialsim is good for many reasons, Materialism sparks innovation, always wanting for improvment and modification to fit a specefic purpose leads to discoverys for newer usage and technology that might not have happend without the need to feed materialism. The Need for something better leads to the development of better products, medicine and even theologies.

Ever since the start of mankind has materialism been a main focal point in shapeing the world we live in today. Ancient mans discovery of agriculture, farming, tools, currency, clothing all had specefic reasons and purpose put into them for anyone to aquire for good reason. In some cultures clothing was a sign of your status in that society, what hat you would wear would dictate your standing or the color of your clothing. Materialism is woven into the human minds psyche since the dawn of man. Family hierlooms that appear to be useless hold sentimental memorys for the people that have them that are priceless. Material possions improved your living and livelyhood and still do to this day.

Some people say materialsm is the root of all evil in our society and that our constant gluttony of always needing more and improvments will be our own undooing as we waste resources and are eventually left with nothing. These points of view are not entirely wrong, Proper managemnt of resources is vital to mainting them. However we live in a gigantic universe full of resources. The only reason we have not utilized them is because we lack the technical know how to. We need more innovation and materialism goes hand and with that. We need materialism for the future of our civilization and human race. Improvments in managing our current materials and finding uses for materials that are abundent is what is needed now.

Materialism is the centerpoint of the human story, it has shaped us into what we have become today. Every aspect of your life was founded with materialism in mind from it's inception. We are materialism in bilogocial form to deny this is to deny our selves and change our entire viewpoint on our selves. Embrace what you are, be materialistic.


