When navigating our day-to-day lives, little thought often goes into the deeper meanings of the images and impressions that our eyes receive. A simple stop sign invokes authority, price tags indicate boundaries, and even billboards, while often unnoticed, entice and illicit desire. It is very rare that our minds walk us through the steps of why we digest and chose to react or not react to these stimuli. Yet, with how images are crucial to how we interact with every single aspect of this world, should we walk ourselves through this infinite landscape or bright colors, signals, and meaning? Should we maintain a constant proverbial filter and maintain a discerning nature in relation to the images and impressions? The short answer is absolutely.
Sociology teaches us that it is impossible to develop a self without the perception and input of others. This is called the looking glass self. Our primary points of social contact in this state of development help us to carve out our independent nature and this sense of self. As we develop this identity, we start to become discerning of world around us. This, in turn, contributes to our preferences in music, food, and political leaning to name a few of these individualistic attributes that one can have. 
Yet, these preferences do not come forth in a vacuum. They are greatly influenced by the outside images and impression of the world around us. Something as simple as a brightly-bag of chips could infuence one's preference on snack food. An impactful speech from a politician could sway a consituents entire political leaning. Yet, do we take these at face value? Do we hold the politican accountable for broken promises or a lack of movement? Do we try the dimly-colored chips that have higher quality ingredients?
Without these essential filters, critisims, and deeper meaning, we loose our ability to distinguish ourselves and our entire indentity if we are swayed by moving words and bright colors. While some images are essential to funciton, such as the stop sign, others merit deep thought and careful consideration. It is vital that we, as a society, process and ponder the impressions that stick with us from individuals in positions of power and influence. And even greater so that we consider the media we consume, the food that we eat, and the images the digest.
