In today's society, image and impressions have a greater effect on people than reality does.  This impacts every part of our lives from business, to socializing and most facets of participating in society. 

In years past, if a person were looking for a job, a well-written resume and solid, verifiable references were a must-have.   Currently, especially when looking to employ younger generations, many companies will use social media as a variable part of their search.   Although it is definitely worthwhile for these organizations to obtain a complete picture of candidates, it is possible that a vibrant online personna can give the impression of a competent, well-connected individual, often wrongfully.  Additionally, the 'credentials' a person posts in social media may not be as true as one would hope.  

I believe socially the impact of designing a pleasurable appearance on a product is what sells these days.  We only have to take a stroll down the aisles of the mega-stores to view an array of packaging choices that stimulate and attract the customer, creating a false sense of connection.    One only has to witness the buying frenzy of shoppers gleefully carting massive loads of goods out of these places.  Upon experiencing these purchases, I think people are left with a hollow feeling spurring more buying to fill the void. 

Honestly, the biggest problem with impressions carrying more weight in our society, is when it comes to people creating images not backed by reality.   Whether it be a politician with a strong agenda whose lifestyle is in opposition, or a Hollywood elite spewing what is good for people, yet not applying those principle to themselves, it is hipocracy.  An attractive image gives these characters credibility that they do not deserve.  

Am I being too cynical in my reactions?  Perhaps.  Honestly, we live in a complex, often harsh, world.  If people enjoying the escapism of living vicariously through the images these people and products create, what is the harm?   Remembering my earlier love-to-shop days, I do have to admit having experienced retail-therapy.   

Although I am more impressed with quality vs. quantity, I find myself in the minority and believe this appearance- driven society worships all that is shallow.  Whether the minority or majority is more correct, the long-term benefits or consequences remain to be seen.  
