Society is too indulged with vanity and looks that it skews their perception of the actual product or person. Its human nature to judge a book based on its cover but many skip over actaully reading the contents inside. Outside appearances are a strong deciding factor in people's perception of others.

One example of this is dating. We have apps such as tinder that force us to put judgemnet on others strictly based off their looks. Many people are ignored if they do not meet someones standard of beauty. You can have the most genuine and fun person but if someone determines they are ugly in their eyes, they will not stand to be given a chance. On the flip side, you can take someone who is attractive who has horrible personality traits and they will still be given more chances than the "ugly one".

Another example given if branding and packaging for products. As long as something is name brand and well known people will pay extra for it. Even if, the generic brand is of the same quality or sometimes better, people are more inclined to pick what is more recognizable and even pay more for it. People are inclined to choose what they know rather than try something new. 

Same goes for makeup, the prettier the packaging, the higher the cost. People will still be inclined to choose these products for the sake of vanity. Some also believe the higher the price, the better the quality, which isn't always the case. Ingredient lists are always ignored because hardly anyone looks at the fine print. They could be getting the same product in a more fancier packaging for double the cost but no one catches on to that.

In conclusion, vanity has taken over our society and skewed our outlook on others and products. People don't have the time or the sense to look deeper into things and take everything at face value. Outside appearances are a strong deciding factor in people's perception of others. Our society is shallow and controlled by marketing and vanity. It's all about looks.
