Everyone likes to think that they're not materalistic and you probably don't even consider yourself to be materalistic. However our entire society is built around what brands people own and can change how we, or others, view them. Owning luxury brands will cause people to view you as having a higher status or class than others who don't own those brands. Materalistic ideals fuel our society. 

For example, there are people who purchase the new Iphone or Samsung phone as soon as it comes out, waiting in line for hours to get it. They don't necessarily care about the product itself but they know if they have the brand new phone people will comment on it and will acknowledge them. This is the same for people who buy the new game consoles as soon as they are released. any of us will go out and purchase something just for the sake of having a dose of seratonin in this harsh world. Money makes the world go round is a popular saying and one that proves that we live in a materalistic world and will continue to live in one until we no longer need the support of Consumerism.

Materalism is also the backbone of Consumerism and Consumerism is what fuels our world. We live in a world where everything is made to make a profit off of, including healthcare, so it makes sense that we all have some inkling of materalism in us. This is why I don't think we should critize society for being materalistic as without this, we wouldn't have new things and we wouldn't be progressing as quickly as we do. Materalism forces companies to come out with new ideas, new things, and allows us to evolve as a species. It is also something that will never disappear so long as it's tied to how big companies make their money. 

Byrant  H. Mcgill has said,"The folly of endless consumerism sends us on a wild goose-chase for happiness through materialism." Instead of criticizing society for being materalistic shouldn't we instead criticize consumerism and how quickly it gets pushed onto us in today's society? 
