While competition tends to be a motivating factor for sucess, I have always been a strong believer in cooperation above all else. So many people out there try to go at it alone, and I have always found that by working with others, and putting your best peices together, you are more likely to come out ahead. 
When one goes at it alone, it is so easy to overlook many obstacles that stand in the way of your goals. For example, perhaps one is limited on financial means to achieve a said goal. There have been many businesses and endevours that have excelled through things such as business partnership, crowdfunding, and hosting events. In cases such as these, starting from the ground up solo, can lead one to give up before they even begin. 
Being able to see things from other perspectives is also a valueble aspect when it comes to cooperation. To listen to the creative advice or wisdom of others, you might realise something that you never realized before. It's possible you may have completely overlooked something that would have been the defining crucial moment of what would have made your endevour a sucess or a failure. For instance, maybe one decided to go into a home childcare business, and starts watching children in their own home. One day, a not very well secured shelf falls on one of the children, causing an injury which results in a hospital bill and a few stitches. The owner of this business did not even think of basic things such as proper shelf installation, or homeowners insurance. Perhaps this person was just so goal-oriented on starting this business and making money, it was simply overlooked If having had discussed and worked with others, the owner could have saved his or herself alot of setbacks, or even a lawsuit. 
Many things are more sucessful by working together, rather than alone. Look at climbing Mount Everest. Usually when one wishes to attempt this feat, it is much more likely through the work of several individuals, sponsers to help fund the excursion, guides to help them along the path, a cook to prepare meals at the camps, and so on. While the drive might be there by a competition of another person or team to reach the summit faster, trying to it alone is much more likely to result in failure, or even a catastrophe. 
Alot of times competition is driven by a more negative  factor, such as wanting to do something first, wanting to do something better, or in some cases, motivated by revenge to "prove" something to another individual or group. To me this is not the best path of sucess, and even if achieved can feel a bit unfulfilling. Cooperation on the other hand, brings together positivite aspects, such as working together, supporting one another, and leaning on eachother. It is making something happen because you have dreams and a drive to make these dreams become a reality. It brings about fulfillment, and something wonderful many times. 
