Marketing and advertisement are huge industries in our world today, and it is all thanks to our baisc human psycology. It is our nature to inffer as much information about something as possible, without having to thoughly investigate. Because of this nature, colorful packages, beautful models, and flashing billboards capture our attention. The saying "Do not judge a book by it's cover" is a saying stemmed in reminding us not to fall into this trap. Because of how marketing can take advantage of our human nature, our decision making is often impaired by the overwhelming amount of ads we see every day. 

Online shopping has made the ad problem even more prevelant. The idea that a purchase can be made at just the click of a button allows us to make spontaneous purchases even more easliy. Items can pile up that aren't really necessities, but are just wastes of money. For some people, this decesion making is hard to avoid because of the constant "in your face marketing" that is designed to play on your psycology and hand over money to a useless product. It is so easy to be tricked by the images we see daily online, and as a result we can't control our clicking. The result is feeding into the already growing consumerism problem in America. 

A common counterarguement may be to say that people are making these spur of the moment decesions by their own will only, and ads are not to blame for consumerism. They may blame consumer greed instead of the flashing colors and sex appeal we see in our daily advertisements. However, consumer greed is not to blame. The goal of advestisement is not necessarily to reach an audience who actually needs a product. Their goal is to convince anyone and everyone that they need their product, even though they may not. This is what feeds into the impusilveness and instant gratification problem we face today. Our attention spans and ability to make decesions are constantly affected by stimiulation designed to play on our psycology and trick us into making the choice the company wants us to make. Without advertising, purchases would be much more need focused. Us humans know our baisc needs, but is mostly the "wants" that need to be advertised. This shows that it is unfair to soley base our purchasing problems on greed. 

It will never really be feasable to control the marketing industry. What is much more practical is to understand how this daily stimulation effects our impulses and decesion making. If we can understant how ads try to trick our brians, we can combat our instant gratificaion problems and start to make more sensible purchases. This is important not only for our wallets, but also for our emotional well being in the long run. 
