I believe that cooperation allows individuals to achieve success moreso than competition. I base this opinion off of my own experiences and personal morals. In the following paragraphs, I will explain my reasoning, and also weigh counterarguments. 

Many of the jobs that I have held have involved working within a group to accomplish a goal. I worked in the hospitality industry which is incredibly people and service focused. While I worked in catering, it took many members of a team to accomplish a goal. This included: chefs, bakers, event coordinators, and general staff. We all had a role to play, and with strong communication we executed events with outstanding results. I have also seen the benefits of cooperation while attending college. Working with other students and professors promoted diverse ideas, and led to successful projects. 

Throughout life we are connected to others, and often rely on a number of people. Others can help during hardship, provide friendship, love, and opportunity. A community that cooperates thrives and is a better place than one where social bonds are weak or broken. There are many points in life where we need a hand or support from others. It is also rewarding to be able to improve the life of another person. 

While I believe that cooperation is best for success, I could also see where competitive strategies and mindsets can be more successful. Some would argue that there are few you can trust in this world, as humans often do things for their own gain and pleasure, and will put themselves first. There are many career fields where competition is common. The businessworld for example often requires that an individual does all that they can to come out on top, and separate themselves from the others even if that means stepping all over others. A lifestyle that puts others down is a sad one. While competition can drive people to perform the best they can, it often is done at the expense of others.

I still believe that in an ideal society it is best to have strong cooperation rather than competition. Strong bonds and cooperation with others builds strong communities, healthy relationships, and improves work performance. Competition often creates hostility and promotes selfish behavior. Take a moment and reflect on how often you have relied on others, and how you have worked with others to create great things. 
