Since the rise of modern media, and especially social media, appearances have seemingly become more important to society than reality. This has led to more of a focus on surface level issues and leaves little room for any nuance. Not only is the onus on us as individuals, but everything around us emphasizes the importance of appearance over substance. My focus will be on social media's influence on society, although it is only a small aspect of the evolution of a more narrow-minded society.

With the rise of social media, both what we present, both visually and textually, is taken at face value. Images of influencers are all over our social media feeds, with the subjects exhibiting the perfect, body, locale, and essentially life. But very little scrutiny is placed on the fact that these images are heavily filtered, photoshopped, posed, and otherwise present only a small and unrealistic aspect of this subject's life. This leads to people feeling inadequate about their own lives in the face of these apparently perfect people online. 

Further, the largest population of social media users, young people, are rarely given that perspective while they are consuming social media, thus continuing to perpetuate the idea of the perfect life. And with self-esteem already lowered, companies can target these inadequate feelings by persuading consumers that they can also attain perfection if they only buy a certain product or pay for a certain service. There is little questioning in whether it is all a calculated effort to project a perfect life and link it with consumerism, when in fact the reliance on consumerism can lead to lower self-esteem, perpetuating the ugly cycle.

The rise of the importance on superficial imagery has seemingly dumbed down our society, with critical thinking skills on the decline. While it can be easy to sympathize with the notion that images can have negative consequences on society, it can't be discounted that believing in these idealized presentations shows a lack of ability in discerning what is real and what is not. For example, it is widely known that celebrities and influencers photoshop and filter their images, so why do people continue to believe in these unattainable beauty standards and allow themselves to feel inadequate in the face of these falsehoods? The responsibility is not just on the media industry to be more realistic in how images are presented, but as individuals we must question everything that is presented to us and not take anything at face value. If you allow yourself to be weak-minded, you will be taken in easily, no matter how it appears to you. 

While images and impressions have proven to have a massive effect on society, with its influence only growing, it is important to understand why it has taken such a hold over people and why there isn't more interrogation over what is presented to us. Especially with the rise of social media, contrived appearances have taken on an important role in the world, with everyone from public figures with large followings, to private figures with minimal followings falling into the trap of presenting a world that is perfect only on the surface. If the people don't work on what is beneath the surface, we are in danger of becoming a world in which nothing is truly real.
