In a world that seems to thrive on competition there seems to be a set of people who tend to shy away from the concept. So instead, what if we all worked together? So much more could be accomplished if we all worked together instead of against each other. The coming together of minds helps spark great things. Think of it as a single match. Sure if lit in a dark room it would emit light and light up a little of the room but what if the match lit a bundle of sticks how much more bright and warm will the room be? That's the concept of cooperation. You can make so much happen when more people come together. That is how life has been we are a people who have built on the ideas of others and that is why we are here today if one person had only done the work that would be one thing but as you can see those thoughts have been built upon year after year to where we are now. The same is how it will be in the future. The things and ideas we have now others will build upon. That is one idea of cooperation. 

Competition has its benefits but as that may initially start the flame like the single match then it is lit up and more comes from that initial competative start. There are so many ideas that  have come previously such as scientific discoveries and math finds. Even creative outlets such as stories and music have been built upon. It brings to mind the saying that there is nothing new that has not already been created. So I feel we are basically building on the ideas of others anyway. When we think of business yes cometition helps to move things forward but there is even a cooperation in business. Like a set standard for pricing. That is why you see meal deals in restaurants basically set around the same price as each other and not undercutting. This is a working with each other unspoken cooperation. 

When people cooperate it also brings together a sense of accomplishment and a collective agreement. This helps with peace and also brings together people who may be marginalized or forgotten and those people may have ideas that others may have not thought to consider. There is just so much more that comes from cooperating than through competition. Cooperation will be the way of the future as the world comes together to work on things like medical advancements. There is still competativeness like being the first to come up with a cure but there is also a sharing of knowledge so that the cure can be found quickly. So in essence competition and cooperation work together with cooperation being the thing that ironnically "wins out". As we look to making the world a better place cooperation is what we need to look forward to in the days ahead.
