 

  For most of the duration of human history, we have hunted and gathered. We did not need many material things. Unecessary material items were too difficult to bring along as our people migrated over the miles and generations. 
  As we settled we made homes. Homes we eventually filled with STUFF. And when we ran out of room for our STUFF, we went out and got bigger places. But when you get the bigger place you realize you dont have enough stuff to fill it. So you go out and buy MORE stuff. This sounds like madness no? 

This IS madness.

  Fast fashion for example. We pump out a new "season" of clothing 52 times a year. Every week of the year, is a new "season" - with new designs, and new styles and new trends. We buy all the latest clothes our closets can hold, throwing away "outdated" fashion. And in 6 and a half years when that trand rolls back around... guess who has to replace the clothes they already had to fit that trend? The consumer. 

  But dont feel too bad! No, because the companies that sell these products rip and shred the clothes they dont sell so that they cannot be sold or worn. 
  We never think: Where do these "material" items come from? And where are they going once we disgaurd them? Do you give it a second thought? Do you know that large developed societies throw out so much of these "materials" that there are whole communities, who thrive off of recycling and scavenging our trash from the ground. Communities walking in our filth and trash because we just buy things and throw them away. 
  These materials arent just spilling out of our homes anymore. They are spilling into the streets, and forests and oceans. Because of our greed to have MORE.
  We have become enamored with having the newest things. The best things. The trendiest things.

  At some point it all loses meaning. Doesnt it? We only have so much time to give to these items, these hobbies, these toys, etc. Dont you want to make sure youre only making room for the most important things? 
  Because wouldnt life be a little simpler and stressfree, if we were surrounded by only the important things we cherish? And a little less, STUFF?
