Our society is so focused on aesthetics and the way that the world around us looks. This is evident in our everyday lives, with colorful packaging at the local Target store being the only that that draws you in, making you spend more because this item looks pretty. More often than not, these aesthetics can be misleading. This can be evident in political races, the "cancel culture" of actors, or the growing consumerism in our society. Images and impressions do have too much of an impact on people, and it creates a lack of trust between different people in society.

Political races and election cycles are designed to take over the entire advertisement spaces during the time of the election. People running to be apart of politics put so much money into political advertisemenets to make their opponent look like the bad guy, and that their side is so much better. A lot of the times, these ads say very jarring and scary things, but there is no proof to back up what is actually being said. Political ads are designed to provide this impression that someone else is the bad guy, and it is designed that people only use these ads as their source of information. When further research is done, you can find out just how many lies are in political ads. Relying on the impression that is created by an ad can lead to mistruths, misinformation, and "fake news". 

Cancel culture has been on the rise in our society over the last 10 years. Before the age of social media, actors and famous people were able to go about their lives however they pleased and all that the viewers would know were what they would say in interviews or in their films. Now, actors and famous people have the same access that everyone does to social media. Being able to go back through social media, since the internet never is truly deleted, exposes these actors unrelatable beliefs. The rise of cancel culture shows that we again have too much of an effect due to singular impressions. With cancel culture as a whole, people are so quick to forget that actors are real people who make mistakes, or act out. Cancel culture has created this idea that one mistake or one bad impression is meant to ruin your entire life. 

With the rise of the app "Tik Tok", consumerism has also grown immensely from this app. The trendy idea of "Tik Tok made me buy it", creates the idea of consumerism as a whole around the app. People do not know how the product acts or really works, because the intention of ads is meant to deceive. The impressions that people create from their products in order to make money can be actually mistifying to their audience. Relying on only impressions and images allows for people to spend more money, typically money that isn't exactly expendable, to have the illusion of more convenience.  
