     Materialism seems like a personal value that is universally frowned upon, for many reasons. People who live, work and use their earnings to purchase material objects, which can range from many things such as video games, clothing, electronics, should not be ostracized for doing so. People find comfort in many things that help them deal with the stress of every day life, and materialism is one of those aspects. While I do agree that stockpiling material objects within ones home or other places, can be detrimental to our planet, it can be done in more beneficial ways. Those beneficial ways can help preserve human history and objects that may be lost to the elements and time. I myself am materialistic and have changed the way in which I collect things and use my finances, in order to attain some form of happiness in my life. Ways that help keep humanity connected throughout the years and future generations to come, I hope. 
     As I stated before, materialism can make people feel good about themselves and help ease the stress in their life, but in most cases, the collection of objects can pollute our world with plastics and toxic waste. There are good, beneficial ways to participate in materialism. For example, collecting old films that are recorded and stored on media that will degrade over time, is not a bad thing that should be criticized. People can learn to take those old films and music, so they can transfer them onto more modern media for preservation. That type of materialism should not be frowned upon because people want to keep human history alive. People spent their lives producing these works of art and should be treated as such. To take it even further, people can take those old films and music and make digital copies, which can be stored on servers and the cloud. I see nothing wrong with people spending their energy, time and money, preserving such material objects for the sake of history. In this situation, people have no right to criticize others for doing this activity. 
     Another example of materialism that can be beneficial, is the preservation and restoration of old photographs. Photographs hold poweruful meaning and emotions for people, as they represent moments in a person's timeline. Like film and music on old media, photographs will not stand the test of time, even when placed in the right storage conditions. Spending money and energy to safeguard these precious memories is a form of materialism that cannot be criticized because it helps keep people and their families attached and knowledgeable about their family history. Photographs can also help future generations to learn and understand how society functioned in the past. It is a great learning tool for an educational setting because of our materialistic nature.
     On the other hand, I will acknowledge that even these beneficial forms of materialism, can be detrimental in certain ways. Taking old film and music and transfering them to more modern media can produce more clutter in the form of DVD's, CD's and hard drives. It does not alleviate the issue of having to much of one thing, which requires production and results in toxic waste in some cases. If old films, music and photographs are stored on the internet, the cloud and servers, these electronic facilities will produce heat, which requires cold temperatures, brought upon by air conditioning. Air conditioning can pollute our atmosphere on Earth and electronics will use too much electricity. Because of these reasons, some people will argue that holding on to these material objects and memories requires another approach to make it beneficial and meaningful for humanity and the Earth. 
     I believe that our materialistic nature should not be criticized and frowned upon by others, as long as it is not hurting humanity and the planet in any capacity. Sure, materialism can be wasteful if used for the purpose of collecting items that will only bring happiness in short bursts, but who are we to judge others. It is up to everyone on this Earth to find their own happiness and in some cases help others find it for themselves. I agree that our time on this Earth can be used in better ways that will help future generations to live, survive and advance the human race, but it is a necessity to find comfort in some form or another. Every human being is only going to be alive for a certain period of time, so why stop people from participating in their materialistic nature. Our materialistic nature can provide a window for future generations, so that they can find comfort in their lives as well.        
