While some people say that happiness comes from within, I believe that true happiness comes from a combination of making yourself and others happy. To begin with, it is important to take steps to become happy with yourself - simply making others happy will not allow one to achieve true overall happiness.

To begin with, you have to take a look at what makes yourself happy. For me, good health is probably the most important thing. To achieve this my wife and I do crossfit workouts every morning, followed by a 2-mile walk. In addition to that I regularly ride my bike from our home to the post office to drop off packages for my home mail order business. We also enjoy many other active outdoor pursuits, such as hiking, bicycling and long distance backpacking. We recently hiked over 700 miles of the Pacific Crest Trail - in the process I lost 32 pounds and have never felt better.

In addition to good health, I also have several hobbies that make me happy. I'm an avid music fan, with a large collection of music that I listen to. It is also beneficial to my happiness that my main income source is running a music record label and web-based music shop. I also enjoy reading and gardening - both of which are relaxing and let my mind rest for a while.

In my opinion another key to happiness, which helps oneself as well as others, is to simplify your life. This can be done in the home by reducing spending on things you don't need, reducing clutter and the amount of "stuff" that you have, and not spending as much money on going out to restaurants. What this achieves is more money in the bank, which reduces stress and increases happiness. It also reduces one's environmental impact - each person is consuming less and using less resources. If everyone reduced consumption by just a little, the overall impact on the planet can potentially be enormous.

On the flip side, focusing solely on oneself isn't the path to overall happiness - it's also important to help others. For me I try to help others in several ways. With my music business I donate 10% of proceeds to organizations that help people of color get into the outdoors, women's groups, and environmental causes and non-profits that plant trees all over the world. My wife and I have also volunteered with All Hands & Hearts, a disaster relief program that helps rebuild homes and schools after hurricanes, fires and floods have occurred. Finally, I devote a good amount of time to the Washington Trails Association, which does trail building and maintainence throughout the state of Washington.

In summary, the things I do for myself work hand-in-hand with the things that I do for others to help me achieve overall happiness. I don't think I'd feel complete if I only did things for others, although it's hard to be too critical of those who do spend most or all of their time helping others. Of course, those that only focus on themselves are, in my mind, just hard to deal with and I really don't think they achieve true overall happiness. To me, you have to find a balance of both to be truly happy.

