Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?

That is a fair question. However, it is not easily answered. The words, "images" and "impressions" are not clearly defined. I will address this questions as though we are referring to media and marketing. In short, the answer is maybe. I will elaborate.

The effect that images and impressions have on people is not determined by the presenter. The effect is determined by the consumer. Perhaps people allow presentations to have too much of an effect upon them. However, that is the fault of the consumer, since the effect is up to them. 

Conversely, presenters could do more to promote accurate images and impressions. That is not in their best interest, however. Presenters have a specific reason or goal for presenting the images and impressions, in the first place. They want to convey a sense that a service or product is desirable, or they want to convey that a person is the epitome of cultural affluence. The goal is to sell something (a product, a presentation, etc.). 

To summarize, we live in an advertisement driven world. Our society accepts the benefits and detriments of that. We rely on services which are supported by advertising revenue. That allows us to use services, while someone else incurs the costs. For instance, network television is supported by commercials. If you want to view programming without commercials, you must pay for a premium broadcast service.

Therefore, we accept the images and impressions put forth by the media. How we respond to them, is entirely up to us, as responsible individuals. If someone is not mature enough to accept media advertising for what it is, who is at fault? The advertiser or the consumer? Are we willing to scrap our current system of financing consumer services (advertising)? Are we willing to pay for the use outright? If the answer is no, then we accept advertising for what it is, an attempt to make something seem desirable in an attempt sell it.

Are we inundated by it? Absolutely! In this capitalist society, everyone is trying to sell something. Every organization is competing to make their product or service seem the most desirable. That means they will continue to produce images and impressions that effect people. The goal is for you to give them your money. You are not going to be motivated to give your money to company "X", if company "Y"s product or service seems more efficient, beautiful, elegant, functional, affordable etc.

This is the capitalist society in which we live. We have created it and accepted it. We are all responsible for it. We consume the services supported by advertising and we are employed by organizations promoting the advertising.  It is impossible to complain about one aspect of a system without addressing the system in it's entirety.
