
Have you ever thought the items you purchase look differently from their packaging? Do the glamourous stories of the rich and famous seem too good to be true? Does a hamburger at a fast food restaurant look nothing like the commercial? If you have ever had these questions then you were taken in by marketing giants. Everything we see on TV, in magazines and online has been carefully structured or fabricated to make them seem better than they actually are.

Marketing has been a global phenomenon long before the 19th century. Whether it was Kings and Emperors being made to seem like unfallible beings akin to gods or the modest street vendor proclaiming to have the finest produce in the world, if a person can tell a good story most people are inclined to believe it. These beliefs then go on to influence what people like you will purchase, with money or faith. If Tom Cruise appears in an advertisement for Jim Jacob's Plum Buns you might be so inclined to go out and purchase a box for yourself. It's good enough for him, why not me? In this way the people of the world have been and are being manipulated.

Manipulation might seem a harsh word but that is what marketing comes down to. A big juicy burger as seen in a commercial may be only half the size when you buy it from the store. A celebrity's life may seem perfect on TV but they might be unhappy or struggling with personal issues. Media is a storefront, they are selling not what they show in ads or commercials, but the people themselves. Every advertisement shown is drawing in customers. Every endorsement from a public figure brings in eyes looking to be shown what to believe. 

It is a cycle of cause and effect, you watch a movie or show for an actor you enjoy then are shown that actor consuming products. So you go out and purchase a product that is nothing like what you saw that actor enjoying. A politician speaks about a local eatery you frequent so you begin to listen to that person and their ideas. These things are happening every moment of every day. Little advertisements that trigger responses in your brain making you crave a beverage. Some picture on a soda can that reminds you of an upcoming movie. A movie that happens to star your favorite actor, who is then shown saying their favorite place to eat is Wendy's. This cycle continues forever, always moving you towards the next product.

What started out as a way for market stalls you draw in customers has remained much the same, but it is now on so grand a scale that there is no way to tune it out. That chicken that looks so delicious on TV, with their logo conveniently turned towards the camera at all times. The celebrity wearing certain clothes and bragging about how amazing they feel. A politician going to a small town and eating at a local diner. All of these things are just new ways to sell the best produce in the world. Keep this in mind the next time you see an advertisement. How much do they truly influence your choices in life?
