Materialism is heavily criticized in this day in age, and for good reason. Though I do believe that being heavily materialistic can cloud out what really matters in this life, I believe we should cut ourselves some slack. After all, we are only human and to shrugs off the timeless human act of consuming for consumptions sake is a herculean task.

As a society, I believe we get bombarded with advertisements and promotions, slammed with deals and sales, and shown that adding a new iPhone or rustic pair of jeans will make us complete. What we should recognize in this is that we have feeble minds. Even those who are aware of how deeply these marketing schemes can influence us, are not immune to its effects. Its a systemic problem, but is very difficult to fight on an individual level. It takes immense focus and discipline to stay the course of not giving in to marketing

I believe that the problem is systemic. It is somewhat of a neccesary evil in order for our capitalist nation to carry on as we've become so accustomed to. I don't think this is inheritly evil nor do I believe it deserves scorn. What I do believe is evil is when lines are crossed and profits become more important than people, when the effects of more money begin to outweigh the effects of polutions and slave labour. 

We spend most of our time on this planet digging up resources only to use them up and bury them back into the ground. This has had a terrible effect on our planet and our souls. I believe if we all spent less time with these materialistic activities, we would not only advance as a human race, but we could spend our time caring more about the people we love and doing things that truly make us happy. It will be some time, if ever, until society as a whole can figure that out and there are a lot of people who are vested in that not happening.

While my answer to the question posed is "no", I believe it is important to note that I don't believe "modern society" should be criticized but there is blame to be had for the damaging effects of materialism. I place that blame on corporations who have taken things to the extreme when it comes to materialism. 


