I do think that modern society should be criticized for materialism in some aspects. I think materialism should be criticized when it is clear that there are detrimental effects of it. For example, I think those detrimental effects can appear when materialism causes an overwhelming demand for something, and that demand cannot be met or that demand causes a burden or destruction on resources. Consumerism and capitalism contributes to this issue as well.

An example of this is the demand of Playstation 5 game systems. Early on in the COVID pandemic, when the systems were released, there were not enough to meet supply. Materialism was part of the reason for this. Several people wanted to hoard the game systems and sell them at an astronomical markup. People who wanted to purchase a system for entertainment could not do so because scalpers continuously wiped out supply at retailers and online. While gaming systems are not necessarily a life necessity (such as food, water, and shelter), the gaming systems provide(d) a high-level of entertainment for people. People value entertainment, and entertainment was considered an especially valuable commodity during the time where most of the country (U.S.) was forced to shelter indoors and many venues for entertainment such as theaters, stadiums, etc. were shutdown.

In contrast, there are some people that believe that materialism helps the economy since materialism helps to create the demand for products/services to be created in the first place. While that may be true in some aspects, materialism and consumerism absolutely can get out of control and causes more harm than good. In reference to the PS5 example I used earlier, both consumerism and materialism contributed to the problem. The demand for new PS5 could not be met because the supplies and materials needed to create more systems were not readily available.

Overall, while materialism may be a good contributor to capitalism, and capitalism helps to sustain consumerism, it is not something that is above criticism.
