In today's world, we are often fooled. We go through our days seeing what other would like I to believe rather than what actually is. There are examples of this in almost everything we do. We see it on social media being shown only what the influencer wants us to see. We see this is advertising on every corner, every webpage and everytime we turn on a tv. Companies promote their products non stop, most often in ways that do not portray the truth behind what they are attempting to sell. It is a puzzling world we have developed that generally lives on lies instead of the ugly truths of the world. The longer this is acceptable, the harder a truthful world will be to obtain. If companies are not required to tell the truth in advertising and social media is a mirage of the real story, can we get back to a black and white world. 

We are currently influenced by what we see, the colors shown, the perfect model of what a mother "should be", how a man should make millions are never be at work. The unrealistic ideas of perfection are making it impossible to live up to. There should be a truth meter or way of bringing these false depictions to light. Companies should be held accountable for falsing advertising a product as something it is not. Social media influencers should be challenged to show their real lives and only compensated when they do so. Politicians and leaders of any kind should be held to a higher standard of upholding the rules, not being allowed to skate around them. We are fundamentally teaching the next generation that our world only goes around by lies and false statements. We show them that we must follow the laws, but our leader don't have to. Our current world is raising a generation that will nevre be able to accurately sets goals and acheive them. They are shown a world that does not exist. It is unobtainable. The arguement here could be that you must now live by the saying "can not believe everything you see", however, we are left believing in nothing. With so many powers that be controling the narrative of perfection, we are unable to see any reality. 

Accountablity for all statements must be demanded. We must stop the cycle of allowing false advertising and become a society that questions everything we believe to be false. If a politician or world leader lies, they must be publically called out. If these leaders break their word or the law, they must be removed from their position. We have to create an environment where we are only rewarded for truth and honesty. Large companies falsely displaying a product as something else, must be help accountable. They should not be allowed to profit for misleading the public. I also believe a national database of companies that have been caught lying or false advertising should be public knowledge. Again, companies that tell the truth and advertise correctly should be the more profitable. Lastly, we must call out the misinformation being shown on social media. A model, actor, millionaire, etc being paid to promote product on social media is very confusing. There must be a way to teach the future generations that social media is another movie set and only shows a very small portion of reality. 

Everytime we turn around, the world we see is filled with lies. Unfortunately we have been trained to not question these issues. We have been taught to look the other way when someone in power does something wrong. To have a positive future and be able to build an honest world, we must make this a thing of the past. We must stop believing everything we are told. It is imparative that we stand up for truth and demand this from all powers that be. We can not raise an entire generation with constant lies and expect them to be able to lead the world one day. There is a need for us to go back to the old days where our word was our bond. Where we can trust those around us. We must make our world focus on truth and honesty. We have allowed lies and colorful advertising to replace the reality. 
