Materialism is very rampant in today's society.  This is due, in part, to the ease of buying as well as the constant competitive nature of society which tells people that the more they acquire, the more successful they are.  Materialism, however, is about much more than the mere act of acquiring material goods.  Keeping this in mind, materialism should not be considered a positive term.

Materialism serves as an never-ending reminder that the goods we own eventually start to own us.  In our constant quest for acquiring enough to make us feel happy and successful, we only find that we are anything but happy and successful.  This is because there will always be someone who has acquired more and is deemed more successful.  Therefore, the chase if futile.  We find ourselves in an endless cycle.

I remember years ago at the beginning of my career, all I wanted was to purchase a small home.  In my mind, this would mean that I had "made it".  So I bought my first home.  It was a small ranch house, and perfect for me.  When I saw my friends, however, purchasing biggerr homes in nicer neighborhoods, I began to feel disgruntled.  I began to question my decision.  I began to feel less successful than my friends.  It became like a competetion, and it was one that I never seemed to win.  No matter how I tried to keep  up with them, there was always more.  I found myself stretching my resources and being overworked - and it did not make me happier or more successful.  All it did was stress me out.

All of this being said, there are many who are able to acquire material things but still keep their heads about them.  They do not allow what they own to own them.  They continue to put relationships with family and friends above materialism.  This is the key.  To these people, what they own is not the most important thing in their lives.  Their sense of success comes from the relationships they have.  If they were to lose their material goods, it would not devastate them.  They would just work hard to replace what they lost without it upsetting their mental and physical health.

Being materialistic is something everyone needs to avoid.  It can negatively effect one's overall happiness and well-being.  That being said, one can still have material goods.  Just remember that these goods should  not come first in your life.  Your relationships with others should always take precedence over material things.

Modern society should be criticized for putting so much emphasis on what people own.  This causes undue stress and pressure to always keep up with others, acquiring more and more.  It leads to greed, and a greed that can never be fulfilled.  This is not good for society as a whole, and will lead society away from what truly matters...relationships.
