   Gimme. Gimme. Gimme.  One cannot begin to argue whether or not materialism is inherently something to criticize or not without a clear definition.  Is materialism a behavior by itself or is it a series of behaviors over time? Can a person be materialistic about certain objects and not in other areas of their life?  In my mind materialism is a pattern of behavior over time that shows a person consistently seeking new objects.  This pursuit of gaining new objects is viewed as a comparison to what others have.  Gaining new objects and the objects themselves, while somewhat satisfying, is secondary to having more objects or better objects than other people of similar means.  Materialism becomes a way of life.
   It is my position that critics of modern society who say that our society is too materialistic are correct.  Society as a whole contains a wide array of beliefs and behaviors, but materialism  can be seen prominently by people of all ages.  The pervasiveness of materialism in modern society encompases many different religions, ethnic groups,  and socioeconomic levels.
   What is so bad about wanting nice things and wanting to live a certain lifestyle?  Nothing is inherenly wrong with wanting to have nice things.  Like many things in life, materialism becomes problematic when it supercedes all else.  When the pursuit of acquring new things is the end game.  When there ceases to be enojoyment in the things one possesses and simply keep moving on to the next, the biggest, the best, the newest, etc.  When people stop taking joy in the people in their lives and spend time away from their families in pursuit of the next thing or to earn money to buy the next thing life gets out of balance.  The meaning in life of enjoying objects and sharing them with people you care about is lost.  While it may seem off topic, materialism in children seems to create young people who see no value in things given to them.  I have seem firsthand students who were given school supplies treat those supplies as easily replaceable.  When students earn a special school supply they take much better care of it.  This is a side of materialism that many don't see.
  Some might say we need the next big thing in order to be able to survive in this society.  To that I would say, check out Reels, Tik Tok, FaceBook, YouTube, and other social media. Look at the number of individuals who are downsizing to tiny homes, or who have taken their family on the road with no return address.  Look at the people who are "getting back to nature''.  Those people portray themselves as happy and as finally gotten themselves away from so much "stuff" so that they could simply live and survive.  Especially after the last two years, look at the number of people who are taking vacations and mostly relaxing and enjoying family time.
  While interesting arguments can made for modern society being criticised or praised for being materialistic, when materialism becomes a way of life, an ends to a means, everyone loses.  We lose out on learning from those who are so busy aquiring that they seldom have time for being.  We lose out on those who create things to be tossed out rather than being proud to create lasting objects that don't need replacements.  We lose out being a society and become inviduals in pursuit of obejcts to make us happy.  Without interconnectedness are we really a society?

