In the world we live in, competition is a salient aspect of life - sports, school, jobs, and virtually anything else.  The phrase "keeping up with the Jones'" describes very well the mentality of many people both at home and at work.  While in many aspects of life healthy competition can act as a motivator and result in superior performance, cooperation can also often lead to better overall results when looking at the performance of the group as a whole; and, perhaps more importantly, leads to positive feedback to the individuals involved, thus creating an even more powerful motivator than competition could ever be able to do.

In a competitive setting, individuals are pitted against one another either to compare their performance against one another or against a set benchmark.  This works well for certain personality types that thrive on being "the best" or enjoy the feeling of being at the top of the pack.  Humans are herd animals, and for the alpha, this competitive environment likely results in the greatest performance and productivity as the stakes are high and the rewards great.  However, this leaves everyone else - the non-alphas - in a situation where they cannot win, do not experience a positive feedback loop, and ultimately may be come demotivated over time from repeated losses, resulting in deterioration performance and stagnation in personal growth.  

Traditional capitalists will argue that competition drives innovation, productivity, and results in increased profits.  While this may be true in some specific industries and some specific individuals, it does not work for the vast majority of people.  Sales environments are a common situation in which competition is used as a motivating factor - competing against one another for the bragging rights of being the best salesperson or against a set benchmark at which one would earn a higher wage or bonus.  Unfortunately for the majority of people, the innate drive for competition, upon which this model relies, does not exist.  This means the competitive factor either does not provide motivation or it results in the opposite, demotivation, when one loses interest or finds themselves unable to meet the competitive goals of the situation.  

Moreover, our current school system and today's young adult generations are confronted with competition in nearly every aspect of life - jobs, housing, mates, and even food and supplies, as we continue to see shortages.  Not only do the majority of people find this incredibly stressful, it also means that even those who naturally enjoy or thrive in a competitive environment are bound to experience competition fatigue, in which an overload of competition results in a decreasing level of motivation over time, especially as one experiences losses, which mathematically must occur in the majority of people.  For example, when attemption to purchase a house, it isn't uncommon for multiple people to submit offers for the same property.  If ten people are competing for the same house, the nature of property ownership allows only one offer to be accepted, leaving the remaining nine with a demotivating loss.

Cooperation, on the other hand, provides a scenario in which everyone can win and people can bask in the glory of the wins of others.  Group situations in which the knowledge, skills, ideas, and creativity of many, in particular if some aspect of every individual's contributions is utilized, create an endless positive feedback loop.  The successes of others can be enjoyed by all when one has a sense of belonging to that group.  This cannot exist in a competiive environment where there can only be one "best" or winner.  The majority of Americans utilize group membership as a strong part of their identity, so when put into an environment where cooperation leads to group successes, not only does their relationship with the group strengthen, they also receive part of the reward of that success, even if only the knowledge of their accomplishment.

In the end, when analyzing the benefits of competition vs. cooperation from a global perspective, cooperation wins out every time.  Even those who naturally feed on competition can benefit from cooperation and find competition against themselves, either as an individual or as the group.  In a business setting, a smart manager will find a way to play to the motivations of every employee by creating a cooperative environment that allows for individuals to compete against themselves.  This can be done by creating development plans with each individual that are personalized to that employee's strengths, motivations, and areas of opportunity.  In the wider realm of everyday work, though, fostering teamwork and cooperation allows inclusion of everyone, the sense of belonging to a group, and ultimately, enables one to realize the successes of others as one's own. 
