My thesis is that images and immediate impressions are overly influential on society. This seems to, more often than not, lead to a breakdown in people's ability to dig deeper and explore the complexities of an issue or product or individual. I'll attempt to showcase why this can be problematic in the following passage.

First impressions, particularly in an age driven by media and social media consumption, can be highly misleading. The images presented to the public by advertisers and public figures of any kind are often filtered through a lens of manipulation. There's an intentional attempt to massage whatever message is being projected to the audience to the point that they're convinced about the worthwhile qualities of whatever is being shown. The actual quality and depth of whatever is being broadcast is deemed tertiary and irrelevant compared to the sensory impressions that first flood people's minds. The danger is that truly substantive things are passed over for others that are more immediately flashy and appealing. 

This is especially prevalent, for example, in the dissemination of campaigning materials during politicals seasons. Politicians will release an abundance of materials related to their campaign that sound thunderous and important, enticing people's sense of ideological self-righteousness. "This action is wrong and, if elected, I will stamp it out" or "this is just, so, if elected, I will ensure that it becomes more entrenched in our society than ever" are common refrains in mailers sent to people's homes or the ads that litter social media. These messages are intentionally framed to best rile people's spirits and goad them into conviction. While these statements might be appealing and even, on occasion, fully accurate reflections of the candidates beliefs and desires to affect change once in office, they can also be grossly calculative propaganda to target people into trusting their immediate impressions, believe what they're told, and vote for these individuals once the time arrives. The problem with this is that an enormous amount of truths and facts can be ignored in the process. An individual hoping to be elected can promise the moon, but, at the same time, they could have a record of voting against what they're currently espousing. That information would then be completely overlooked and the elected individual free to break the promises they made now that they're possessive of the power they truly sought.

Some people argue that it's fine to trust the immediately visible within an advertisement or political message with the claim that people are discerning enough to understand when they're being misled. They'll also suggest that these advertisers or notable figures will ultimately be subject to the ire of the people, so it's in their best interests to be truthful and reflect the quality of themselves or their products properly. That ideal, however, neglects to reason with the fact that these companies and politicians and celebrities are very often driven be greed and the allure of profit or success. If they can hide the lack of depth or soundness of their products and even themselves in the pursuit of some material benefit, they frequently will and it's in the best interests of society to dig deeper and discover the truth for themselves, whatever it may be.

In summation, a deeper and more comprehensive understanding is exceedingly beneficial to the wellbeing of a society and its people. First impressions can obscure so much truth, so why allow them to be the only aspects of a product or individual that compels society forward when the alternative is easily attained. With the internet at people's fingertips and research often only a few clicks away, it doesn't take much to enlighten yourself.     
