Images and impressions do have a effect on people. Today, the world is obsessed with social media and images. Some young, impressionable people take what they see on social media as fact. In certain cases, these people will take drastic measures to live up to the image that they see on the screen. I believe, what people need to realize is that what they see is only a fraction of what truly is. The audience does not see the bad days, only the good. 

I have seen firsthand the effects that false images and impressions can have on people. I, to, have fallen victim to staged posts by influencers on social media. I tried to be like the girls on Instagram. I tried to mimic their buying habits, their posting styles, and even their eating habits. It got to the point that if I didnt have the exact same "results"as they had, that I felt like a failure. 

I am now a 37 year old mother and wife. I know now that, what I was striving to become like back then was not attainable. All that I was seeing was smoke and mirrors. If I were to actually get a glimpse into that persons real life, the images would be very different. 

So while I do post on social media, I make sure people see "real" life things and events. I dont filter my photos or pretend to have a perfect life. My son has severe nonverbal autism, and people need to know about what that is. I had no idea what it was. More awareness needs to be made about autism in general. When used the correct way, social media and images and impressions can be used for good. Often, however, its used to project a "perfect" life or a "perfect" body with zero imperfections. I intend to leave my followers with the true, real life impression of what autism is. 

Recently, the state of Texas has outlawed certain filters on Instagram. I do think that this is a step in the right direction. Images and impressions are just that, images. No one truly knows what goes on behind the image. No one knows what happens when the cameras stop rolling, or what goes on behind closed doors. All people get is a heavily filtered, heavily edited version of that person. 
It is my hope that one day, the youth can look at a image and see it for what it is, a image. 





