People are more likely to be happy when they focus on helping others find their own happiness. If people focus too much on their own personal goals, they can get too caught up in just one thing and they will be unhappy if they don't reach that goal. By helping other people with their happiness, people can find true happiness themselves.

By focusing on the needs and happiness of others, people are able to find their own happiness. They don't focus on what they think may be making their own lives less than ideal. Humanity is about working together as a society. People need interaction with others, and this also helps them from being too caught up in their own minds. By working together, people can discover new things that they didn't even know would make them happy.

Oftentimes, people don't really know how to achieve happiness on their own because they don't know what exactly it is that they're looking for. They may think that a goal such as making a certain amount of money will be the turning point for them being happy, but that's not always the case. They may have set goals and dreams for themselves without really thinking about why they think that would actually make them happy. 

Pursuing one's own dreams and personal goals is a nice thing to have in life, but it does not equal to happiness. If people were to not fully achieve their goals, this could ultimately lead to unhappiness because they could feel like failures. Also, people could continuously move their goal post, causing them to forever chase something that can never be reached. Others may not have dreams or goals that they know of, and that in itself could lead to unhappiness because people will feel like they have nothing to live for. 

When people focus on the needs and happiness of others, everybody benefits. People are meant to build each other up so that everyone can progress as a society and be happier in general. A goal or dream is both tangible and intangible at the same time because people are always chasing the next big thing. Focusing on others though can give people a real sense of purpose and inadvertently help them become happier along the way. People may not know what would actually make them happy in life, so focusing on others may help them open their minds to something greater than themselves. Life is about learning and growing together, and this will ultimately lead to everyone benefitting from these interpersonal relationships. People need something bigger than themselves to reach real happiness. 
