Goods, or materials, are made by companies for one main reason: to provide consumers with a source of happiness. Since the modern era, many companies have come and gone to provide people with this happiness. Due to recent advances in technology, one could argue that our current society is flooded with the opportunity to consume goods. In fact, some people might further argue that our society has become too materialistic and criticize the current state of our society. However, I disagree. There is nothing wrong with the materialistic nature of our society. Furthermore, materialism has been in place ever since the first modern humans set foot in this earth.

Life has many sources of happiness, and this source of happiness differs for each individual. For one person, their main source of happiness might stem from the relationships they create with friends; for others it might be from traveling and exploring the world; still, for others, it might stem from the desire to spend money and aquire new possesions. As humans, we do not have the right to criticize what makes others happy so long as it does not hurt anyone else. Even though we may all be aware of someone who spends a little too much money on unnecsaary items, as long as it makes them happy, we cannot critizie how they choose to live their lives. 

Some people believe that materialism is a modern problem because rapid advances in technology have allowed for the mass production of goods and, consequently, more widespread availability. Even though this is true, the core nature of humans desiring to aquire goods has been present since the beginning of human history. The wealthy individuals of all ancient civilizations have always possessed goods because it provided them with some form of happiness. Our modern society has expanded this to allow the average person to now be able to partake in that practice. Is that such a bad thing? I do not think so.

Materialism is something that has existed since humans have existed. Yes, a greater proportion of people are able to be materialistic compared to the past, but if that materialism can provide people with a source of happiness, then there is no issue with criticizing our society. 
