     Materialism is a subject which probably has the highest levels of hypocrisy and self delusion in regard to it.  Almost all people pretend that they are not materialistic while at the same time the are waiting in line for the latest I-phone while the one they have is still functioning perfectly.  In this essay I will attempt to show that our society and economy is based on materialism and the money and commercial exchange inherent in it.
     The modern economy is not only based on the production of new gadgets, it is increasingly fueled by the advertising which accompanies them.  Perhaps this is not such a bad thing since the advertising is less polluting than the actual production of the items.  Without the sales of merchandise the consumer society in which we live would founder.  It is unlikely that most people who are against materialism really want to go back to a hunter-gatherer or agrarian system which would do away with most of our modern conveniences.  Without the production and sale of large amounts of goods there would be no jobs and therefore no money for people to spend.
     The greatest argument against materialism is a Malthusian conception that there are too many people to have all of these products without doing horrendous damage to the environment.  Yet in fact, in the most productive Western societies,  the environment has markedly improved even as all of this materialism has flourished.  Some would say that this is because the production of goods has shifted to third world countries which endure horrible pollution because of this fact.  However, even these areas are being cleaned up somewhat as Western pollution mitigation technology is being  applied there.  Most Malthusian predictions have also failed to come to pass even as the world's population has greatly expanded.
     In conclusion, while most would say we need to be less materialistic, and perhaps a growing sense of recycling and reusing more products instead of simply throwing them away would be a welcome new industry, modern civilization could simply not exist without the production and exchange of large amounts of material goods.  Instead of cursing the materialistic darkness perhaps we should simply light the candle of new less harmful and more efficient material technology.
     

