Image and Reality

It's easy to find arguments that politics, economics, religion -- indeed, every part of human life -- have become superficial. Image rules over substance, to the point where it almost seems like there's no substance at all. But postmodernists would argue, in fact, that image is substance. The packaging is the product, the medium is the message. Far from being a world of image over reality, we exist in a world that was never real, not in the sense that people mean when they use that word. 

Reality exists, certainly, in some sense. Gravity functions, and matter seems to cohere. But our perception of this reality is always and only an image. Only in the imagination do we construct our understanding of the world. Our sense perceptions create a mental image, an idea, and this is all we experience of reality. The world is, to paraphrase someone or another, a perfect image of a reality that never existed. 

Now, many people will say that substance does matter, and that it's irresponsible to say that image is all we know of reality. For example, politicians have put people's lives at risk due to their adherence to images over substance, and I do not disagree. The solution, however, to that superficiality is not to demand more substance -- that just leads to more propaganda, more posturing, and more division. It's to recognize that all we have in politics (and every other area) is the image, so we can begin to construct images that match the reality we want to live in, rather than the one that we are interpellated into. 

I'm not suggesting that reality is all a fantasy or a dream, a common misapprehension of postmodernism. I'm pointing out that the postmodern position of the free play of signifiers offers opportunities for changing our experience and perception of the world. And since we have only experience and perception, in some sense, this means changing the world. 

The postmodern position offers a lot of insight into image and reality, depiction and the thing depicted. And we have a lot to gain by investigating this philosophical position more fully. So to ask if images and impressions have too much of an effect on people is to ask a question with no answer: image and impression is all that ever affects a person. 
