While the national crime rate in the United States has ticked up over the years following the initial COVID lockdowns in early 2020, the true rate of crime is still much lower than it was back in the 1990s. If you ask people about their perception of crimes, however, polling shows that they will more often than not suggest the crime rate is much higher than the reality. This is due to many factors, but primarily because of the perception of the rate of crime gathered from the media representations. If every time someone logs onto social media, they are inundated with images of crime, this will color their perception of the prevalence of the abundance of crime. The graphic images of violence and crime lead are too influencial and lead to the belief that things are more dire than they really are. 

Despite the fact that statistics and data can be used to show the actual real state of safety, a spreadsheet and a powerpoint presentation given by a member of city council does not have the same visceral effect as daily viral videos from Ring cameras of packages being stolen from porches and assaults captured and posted to someone's Facebook feed filled with hundreds of comments about how society is collapsing. The perception that we get from images gives us a misperception of reality. We look around and all we see is negative. This is an effect of living in a 21st centurty world that is dominated by non-stop images. It's a reality of 2022 that is difficult to find a way around. It only makes logical sense that if every day there is a new horror whether it be at a gas station down the block or in Ukraine and it is being presented as the same reality to the viewer that they would develop the impression that the world is this dangerous and things are only getting worse. 

Images and impressions have too great of an impact on people and society. The perception is the reality. It does not matter if society as a whole and individuals have an incorrect perception of their safety on a daily basis if the ultimate effect of this perception alters the way they are living their lives. Not leaving the house out of a misplaced fear has the same functional outcome as not leaving the house because of a real threat; it creates an imposed feeling of being a prisoner in their own home. Our impression of what we believe is true becomes the truth, so it's important to remain conscious of the way we perceive. 
