Materialism has been a hot button topic in our society for many years now as can be evidenced from the examples of corporate greed we see in the mainstream media. Everyone has seen the many examples of fraud and scam that cause uproars and damage society. Whether or not modern society is materialistic or not, people will always have a desire to obtain and keep material things as I believe this to be a part of human nature. I believe materialism is neither a good or a bad thing, but a neutral energy that can be used for either. It depends on the person in question and what that person's motivations are for acquiring material things that will determine its effect on society. There has been an increase in religious activity in the Western world that points to people's desires to have more meaning than materialism can provide for in their lives.

An example of when materialism has been used for good in society is the manufacture of medicines and the technological advances in medical equipment. Both these examples have saved millions of lives and helped to increase the lifespace of people thus contributing to the rapid growth of the overall number of people worldwide. Some people may argue that this rapid explosion in the world's population is actually a bad thing, but from an ethical standpoint this is actually a positive thing. The advances in medical equipment have also saved countless lives on the operating table and have made procedures such as heart transplants and kidney dialysis possible.

Going back to the question of whether or not modern society should be critizied for being too materialistic, I would argue that it depends on the situation. The most obvious criticisms can be laid out towards governments that produces nothing and only takes from its citizens. We can easily point to the large national debts looming over many countries and the burdening taxes paid out to the government by citizens of the Western world. It's easy to see why the Western world is having a problem with homelessness and poverty when it's our government that has been causing most of this situation. This is definitely one strong criticism of the materialistic attitude of modern society even if government is a necessary evil.

Africa has been a huge beneficiary of materialism in recent years due to the involvement of Western figures such as Bill Gates in the country. Bill Gates has helped to spread immunizations across the continent that has resulted in saving the lives of millions of Africans. There is also a stronger awareness of contriceptives in the continent that has helped to decrease the level of HIV present in the continents populations. Without materialism, this action would not have been accomplished.

If materialism did not exist in the western world, then we wouldn't have obtained the ability to clothe, shelter, and feed as many people as we are able to right now. Human beings have basic needs and a lot of those needs have been obtained through the advent of materialistic endeavors to produce a better standard of living for many people. It's true that not everyone has benefitted by the materialism of the Western world and that many countries have suffered because of it (Iraq, Afghanistan, etc.), but I believe materialism has been mostly a positive influence. If it wasn't for materialism, we wouldn't have shoes to wear, cars to drive, computers to type this essay, or houses to live in.
