In today's society, it's almost guaranteed that nearly every society has encountered some form of materialism. Indeed, the quest for acquiring more and more "things" is predominant in celebrity culture, in the business realm, and it virtually every corner of our modern lives. Everything and everybody is preoccupied with creating more, busting goals, meeting sales metrics, etc. It's a vicious circle that, on the outside, appears almost kitschy, but, at the heart, the question continues to tug at our hearts and minds as we become more and more entangled in the stressful pursuit of always needing more: is having more things really, truly a good thing? 

We can, perhaps, experience no clearer proof of this fact than by engaging in a simple scroll of popular memes on various social media channels, such as Facebook and Instagram. The materialistic overtones are masked under the guise of "religion" and "prosperity," creating a kind of perfect storm of prosperity theology, but, once we chip away at the saccharin-sweet exterior, such affirmations are preoccupied with one sentiment only: that the relentess pursuit of more things will bring about unparalleled success and happiness. 

And so we begin making plans, deeming ourselves failures, "washed up," and practically useless if we don't attain those goals that meet societal expectations. Simply exhibiting gratitude for the everyday meal on the table and a roof over the head are markers of a failed life--one that's only "halfway there." According to the "powers that be," true success is never actually achieved, regardless of the happiness of a simple life that celebrates having "enough." And, unfortunately, we've paid a deep price, particularly in the area of mental health. For instance, and increasing number of celebrities are bringing mental health to the forefront these days, with the resounding idea behind it all: modern society is depleting these souls with its obsession with owning more, producing more, being "more," and such idealogy has crushed the spirit of those who are caught in the fray--at times costing their very lives. 

Although we recognize the pitfalls of society's materialistic focus, we still log on our computers, slamming the "love" button on those flashy car memes with their catchy tippets of authoritative wisdom. But we should know better. We will know better. As the pandemic continues, we are forced to re-evaluate what we intend to acquire versus what we need. May we continue to do so in our everyday lives, in times both trying and prosperous, and never neglect to celebrate the beauty and peace of knowing that, quite often, we certainly have more than enough. 


