Images and impressions are two aspects which leave a deep impact on the life of an individual. The idea is when we see an image, our brain functions in such a way that it captures like a picture taken from a camera and stored in the memory bank, so when we see that image again in any form or any where the memory processes the image and takes it out from the memory bank and help us visualize the ame thing we had captured. This way the same thing in infront of us and we could relate the thing with the past about where we saw, under what circumstance we saw the picture etc. So it is by default understood that images can be captured for a long long time and these images usually leave some effect on people. 

Impressions can be created by people either by giving or providing wonderful ideas which are appreciateable or by just remaining silent at certain occassions. For example: "I like the way he speaks- In the attached statement the speaker's way of speaking has left an impression over me. He is notably and will be appreciated for the way he speaks publicly. It is not only by the medium of ideas or public speaking impressions are left but also sometimes a person leaves a great deal of impression even if he doesn't speak at all. In todays world we need to undertand who is playing what role. How we potray our image infront of others matter a lot. The way we talk, the way we speak, the way we handle stuff, the way we greet, everything is being noted by everybody and that creates an image in the perons mind what kind of person are we. So it is important that we create a positive image infront of other so that, image of us has a lot of effect on other life too.

First impression is the last impression. We all would have heard this famous saying and believe this saying holds a lot of weightage what it means. As a human being we make judgement on others very quickly. Judgements can be made on attractiveness, likability and trustworthiness and these can be determined within few seconds of seeing or meeting a person. Well it can be very dangerous also to make such conclusions based on the first impression. We as an individual have to be cautious of the fact that we don't jump to conclusion very quickly rather take some more time and then decide. Another example is actors preomoting any product, we are attracted towrds that. It is because of the fact that a known person is promoting something which we could visualize later when eeing the product and think of the fact that if he can use that, why can't I.

To conclude the statement: Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people? Yes images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. As illustrated above, Images create picture and impression the fact of manipulating the mind for doing something. Impressions can be manipulated so we have to be extra alert over it. We don't want incorrect message going out about any aspect. Though things have been handled delicately who ever have created such image or impression over someone life. We are in asociety which is driven by such fake images and impression, this could have a negative impact rather than the posiutive impact. Hence we have to be alert at all time. Thanks-
