Humans have always had an intrinsic desire for collecting and having things. Artifacts that have seemingly no utilitarian purpose have been discovered from essentially every examined human tribe. Subscribing meaning to objects seems to be deep within us. Yet, often we feel bad for wanting to have nice things, that bring value to us as individuals. I think this guilt around enjoying objects is not always fair to ascribe. I think having certain objects fufills something inate within us, and helps us to express ourselves. However, materialism to such an extreme where it transitions to abject greed and begins to hurt the community does have moral issues. 
If we look to Maslow's hierarchy of needs, it is easy to see how objects can help fills the lower levels of needs: physiological and saftey. However, I would argue that objects also help with the higher needs as well, like esteem. Wearing a new dress or buying a new couch can give us a sense of bouyance, that is unfair to diminish simply because it orginates from a physical item. Further, objects aid in self-expression. Fashion and style is extremely meangiful to many people. But beyond that, decorating one's space gives a sense of connection to the place, which makes it feel like a home. Decorations can provide deep meaning for people in this context. 
While materialism can provide meaning and expression, taken to the extreme it can hurt a community at large. Kant argues in his first catagorical imperative that we should only do what could be treated as a universal law; meaning that the individual should only do something that every person in society could also do. Having objects and taking pride in those is something everyone should do, but excessive hoarding of objects would deprive everyone of this fufillment. Thus, when materialism begins to take away from those around you, or one takes more than their fair share it becomes a problem, and should be critized by society. 
Thus, in summation, I believe that objects are valuable to us as humans, and having feelings of pride and joy from materials is not only natural, but fufilling as well, as long as it is not taken to such an extreme of depriving those joys from others. With the often dark, and unforgiving world that we inhabit, what spots of joy we find should be enjoyed, even if to others they could be called superficial. 
