As technology advances, so too do the basic comforts of human existence. Where once individuals struggled to protect themselves from the elements or searched for ways to keep drinkable water, in society nowadays, these issues are not as widespread. Even though these basic needs are met, the current workforce is exhausted with little time to dedicate to other activities outside of work, so they will spend their hard-earned money on materialistic things. Despite this, modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic.

Time is a precious commodity, regardless of how it is used. People in modern society dedicate a certain amount of their time toward earning money for the necessities. Money is used to ensure basic needs are met - food, water, shelter, and comfort (to a degree). Once these needs are met, enjoyable activites can be persued. However, society has been shaped in such a way that individuals who work do not have time to enjoy pastimes or hobbies as much as should be allowed. Thus, they will work for money and then turn around and spend it on possessions. A man who is exhausted after working forty hours each week will buy himself a nice car or a large screen TV or even a new movie to watch. Without extra free time to use, modern society cannot function without indulging in materialistic goals. It provides a way for individuals to still derive enjoyment out of life through a plethora of entertainment choices.

Conversely, because society emphasizes dedicating time to working and less to hobbies that are not productive, it has forced individuals to be materialistic. For example, after working a full eight-hour day, a mother may choose to buy a new movie for her children to watch while she attempts to catch a small restful break before moving to household chores. It is much easier to use money to buy items that can derive enjoyment, even if it is brief and fleeting. Society has been made to force individuals to spend money on random materialistic items in order to find pleasure after the exhausting toll of modern workloads. Society should be reframed to allow people to have more free time instead of controlling their time to force them to become materialistic in pursuit of relaxing enjoyment.

Modern society has its advantages and its drawbacks. It allows individuals to work to earn money to take care of basic needs but it comes at the cost of time. Without additional free time, individuals have little choice but to spend their hard-earned money on materialistic goods to derive enjoyment in their lives. However, it provides a multitude of ways for people to discover fun and entertainment in life. Society may have its imperfections, but overall, it provides the way to take care of necessities as well as the enjoyable things in life. 
