In today's society, we hear so much about depression and anxiety. The quest for so many people is to find happiness. Where does hapiness come from? That seems to be the question that so many individuals are asking, and so many authors, speakers, and entertainers try to answer. 

Often, in the 21st century, and emphasis has been put on self-care and finding ways of making oneself happy. Companies have used this to their advantage, by avertising products and services aimed at people who are trying to find that one missing thing to fulfill happiness. As most people know, any happiness these things create is extremely temporary. The same goes for personal goals. While it's great to achieve something, humans are always looking to the next goal. It's very difficult to be content with achieving a singular goal, and therefore, happiness is also temporary when it comes to personal achievements. 

Giving back to society creates a joy that surpasses all temporary happiness. More than anything, people want for their families to be taken care of, and to leave a legacy. Once we realize that life on Earth is temporary, we begin to understand that true happiness comes from things that can last longer than the finite time we have on this Earth. True happiness has to first start at a point of realizing that life existed before we did, and will exist after we are gone. We need to realize that life isn't about us, but about something bigger than us. What we were created to do...our purpose, was not meant for us alone. We were created for so much more, and when we realize this, we can act on it, and achieve true happiness, which includes being content that we lived according to our true purpose. 

While some would say that we need to stop worrying about others and take care of ourselves, they tend to be talking about spending time on things that we don't have control over. Sometimes, we can invest in people and things which we ultimately, won't be able to change. That can cause emotional stress. However, the answer to that is not to go back to creating moments of extremely temporary happiness for ourselves, but to truly understand that sometimes, doors close, but others open. We just have to find the open doors, and influence those who we are able to, and make a positive impact where we're able; ultimately leading to creating a great legacy. That is something that will produce a content and joyful heart. 
