We as a society are definitely more materialistic than we were in the old days. We don't focus on the things that we should as a society and spend far too much time trying to impress others people or to make the most money. But is this a bad thing? Is it bad to want to get ahead in life and have nice things? The short answer is, yes, we as a society should be criticized for being so materialistic.
The first reason that we should be criticized for being so concerned about physical things as a society is because it takes away from the things that are really actually important. My husband and I were talking about Kevin from Shark Tank the other day and we decided it was crazy how rich he is by using the passive income method. My husband brought up a good point however. He mentioned that while Kevin seems to have endless piles of money and can do whatever he wants, he isn't truly happy. He has given up his friends and family and is just a really rude guy who doesn't care about other people because he has all of this money. I'm sure he had a point in his life where he had the choice to either worry about his family and friends, or worry about making money and he chose making money.
We also have become so wasteful as a society. My grandma passed away last fall, but she was a great example of using everything up and keeping everything (growing up in the great depression probably had something to do with this). She used to always say "use it up, wear it out, make it do, or do without." This was a great example to me of being less wasteful and only consuming the things that were absolutely necessary. She also lived in the same four bedroom house she raised her 12 kids in until the day she died. She didn't care about material things, but was the sweetest, happiest, kindest person I've ever had the pleasure of knowing. It's so sad to me that we have become so interested and all encompased in making more and more money and getting more stuff.
Another reason that being so materialistic is a bad thing is because we do things only to impress other people. A lot of social media influencers post all of their fun adventures, fun toys, and great times, but they don't allow us to see the real them without "things". We have become a society of selfies and glow ups rather than showing other people who we truly are, what we stand for, and the struggles that we face. We see these things and we think that "oh look at that person, they just have the perfect life" when in reality, they have their struggles and challenges too. I have definitely seen this cause increased rates of anxiety and depression and even suicide in the younger generations. I think we also try to hard to impress other people that we don't care what kind of debt we get in to, or who we hurt in the process.
We also have become a society that struggles to talk to each other in person. I have younger cousins that don't know how to carry on a normal conversation because they are always so glued to their phones or tv. They are so worried about their social media and looking good for others that they don't know how to interact in a normal and healthy way.
However, having money isn't necessarily all a bad thing. It's nice to reward ourselves for working so hard for things. The probelm comes when we focus so much on the material possessions that we lose the things that really matter. I think it is so beatiful and amazing that we are able to have homes that keep us warm in the winter and cool in the summer, have indoor plumbing, have vehicles that get us from point a to point b without much thought, and be able to enjoy ourselves with a night out once in a while. We are so lucky to be able to live in a country and a time that money isn't an issue, but it has gotten out of hand with all of the accumulation of wealth. If people were to focus more on giving to others and less on making themselves look good, we would be a lot better off as a society.
In conclusion, we as a society deserve a slap on the wrist for the way that we treat and kind of even worship our material goods. There is so much focus on looking good for other people that we forget to enjoy the things in life that really matter. We can't take any of the material things with us when we die, so it is so important to make sure we have those family relationships and focus on the things that actually matter.

