     Everywhere you look companies try to get sales any way they can.  You will see many product packaging that has a wow factor and some that insist you look at them just by the packaging.   Our kids play games that seem so real but are not.  What does all this do to us as a society and how do we change negative outcomes from this behavior?
     In clothing sold online, you will see models that look wonderful in their clothing brand. 
 The question is what about real people?  I have never looked that good on anything compared to a model.   We buy the cloths thinking it will make us look like the picture. 
Money is the name of the game in sales of products all across the world.  How do companies make sure their products are on top of the game in advertising.  They use our eyes to make us take notice and when we take notice we buy.  Even in store brands can sometimes be deceiving.  We live in a world where visually appearances entice us no matter what it is about.  What if we actually saw the truth about products, people, and places, rather than look at a picture or read about something or someone.  What would our opinions be if we were to experience these things first hand without seeing or reading false advertisement?
     I believe our minds have been trained to notice pleasing things even though we may not know the facts about something.  It is deception in every sense of the word.  A deception we may even be aware of.   How many products have you bought that you did not take the time to research?   Or politicians without researching what their values are regardless of political party?  We want things when we want them and reading would take up too much time.   It is almost like brainwashing us to spend our money to make them a profit.  
     We are in a recession and every penny counts on how we spend.  I believe the consumer would be alot better off if we took the time to find out facts on something rather than throw our hard earned money away on something that is not as it appears to be.  We need to retrain our brains!   Impressions about something and images we see have a huge effect on the choices we make every day.  Take the time to go beyond the images and research truthful products, events, and yes, even people.   This is not a make believe world and we are not characters in a movie.  This is like saying everyone is a carbon copy of what we see and nothing is further from the truth.
