There are multiple things in the world that are mistaken for reality. It is a shame because there are alot of people in this world who pitty thier lives due to the unrealistic nature of a "picture perfect" life. I have been a victum to this myself. Below I will explain the reasons of why I feel Social Media to be the number ONE thing mistaken for reality.

Facebook will be my exmaple. I believe that now sense the pandemic, Facebook has become the number one website in which 99.5 % of humas fake thier lives and people truly believe they live in this so called perfect life. Behind the videos and pictures that are shared, these people also live a normal life. A life with ups and downs but sense the veiwers are unable to see this, they believe that they really are completely perfect and idolize them. People start to look down on thier lives wishing that they lives a perfect life. This causes some people alot of damage and could cause someone to take thier own life. 

Pictures for example- People look at these and want the perfect hair, perfect body shape, perfect clothing. This again could tear people down. Make them feel not good enough. These are always with filters, photo editing etc. The people who have taken the picture doesnt even look like that in real life.

I have also seen people who fantasize over impressions as well.  People see how people act and start acting the exact same for followers. This is such an unhealthy thing. People need to understand that they just need to be themselves. Behind the scenes of socoal media is absolutley fake.

I have been a victim to this before I realized what was before me. I believed these people lived these perfect lives and I could never understand why my life was so crazy. I idolized females and wished so hard that I could be them and tore myself down. That was my darkest of days. 

I finally realized that I did not want to be them. I realized that these people where not perfect. They just didn't show it for the world to see. I realized that I wanted to be myself and ended up picking my own self up.  Now I'd love to help those who feel down.
