  When it comes to modern day society, we often hear people talk about trying to reduce waste, to be more conservative with what products you purchase and consume, how to avoid the one thing that many of us fall a victim of: materialism. This is a valid concern that people have about our modern world. People will buy just about anything for a variety of reasons, whether it be just to feel self-important, ease of use disposability, or get a quick serotonin boost. We have reached a point where we consume tons of products for quick thrills and happiness boosts, but is it worth it? I believe that, yes, we should continue to try to move away from, and criticize, our materialistic ways.
  So, we know that we should continue to criticise society's materialism, but why exactly is that? Why should we still be trying to move away from this mass consumerist mindset, and how would it be beneficial? Despite all of the talk people do about how materialistic values are bad, for many people, it continues to be something they don't realize they are doing, or how this could be harmful. Being materialistic has many downsides, from the mental affects it can have on people, to the negative enviormental affects all this increased waste causes.
  Something we hear a lot of talk about in recent times is the waste of straws. While it is true that straws do not create as much waste and pollution as any single large company, even the switch to reusable metal straws can reduce one's personal waste, even if it's overall only a small bit. As well, the move to more sustainable, reusable products can be more cost effective to the consumers. The criticism of people to start moving to more sustainable products, and stop being quite as materialistic, has created a small ripple affect of reduced waste.
  Another issue with hyper-materialism is the adverse mental affects this can have on consumers. I have a coworker who I too often hear say things such as, "I don't need it, but I want it." He is aware that he is just buying things to make himself feel like he has stuff, like he has importance. In the end though, it is obvious he is not in a good mental state, and the increasing bills from credit cards are beginning to put a strain on his finances. This is a very common occurence in people who care strongly about trying to make themselves appear better off than they are. They dig themselves into financial debt, but since society expects everyone to have more and be more, people keep falling into the pit of materialism. We are not as harsh on society as a whole being too materialistic for their own good, and this leads people to believe that it is a good trait, that it is something everyone does, that there's nothing wrong with what they're doing so long as it's a quick happiness boost, and this just isn't true.
  Now, while it may seem clear that we should continue to criticize society's materialism, there are some people who would disagree. Generally, these people are those trying to sell more products, to take advantage of people's mindsets and convince them to buy their next, latest and greatest product. People could agree with those who like to buy way more than they could ever know what to do with, defending their stance that, so what, if it makes them happy? However, this happiness is double-edged, and the stress from debt will eventually outweigh that happiness. As well, detractors may claim that being less materialistic doesn't actually have an impact on enviormental issues. While this is true that no one person reducing their consumerist ways would make a significant impact, compared to corporations reducing their own pollution, it could be argued that this would be a chain effect. It people begin purchasing less products, this results in, eventually, less prodcuts being made. The beginning would be rough, as the over-manufacture of these products would create a ton of waste. Eventually, though, it would lead to a positive chain. As well, a lot of singular people making small actions do tend to create big changes, as often seen with protests and revolutionary movements.
  So, while I do see why some people may believe, "so what is our society is materialistic?", I do believe that we should continue to criticize this. Small movements can lead to big results over time. While it is understandable why some people are materialistic, whether for convenience, to make themselves happier, or the like, it is better to always keep trying to improve upon yourself and move forward. Society currently definitely has an issue with being overly materialistic, and we should continue to question why, and try to make changes to keep progressing forward, to keep becoming better than we were before.
