People make the world go round. As much as materialism is looked at in a negative light, it is what keeps society going. Many people love to demonize people who want to indulge in life's finer things, but ask yourself, if everyone stopped being materialistic, how will society continue to thrive? Is everyone in the position to completely cut out all materialistic purchases, and what happens to the mental health of our country without having this bit of indulgence?

Materialism may be looked at as people being wasteful and spending wrecklessly, but in actuality it keeps our society stable.  In order for some people to make a living in modern days, hobbies and special interests have become more and more in demand. Things that were once deemed objects to pass the times are now  providing incomes to people who would not have a source of income any other way. So if everyone only buys what is deemed necessary what happens to those people who only make a living from selling materialistic items? The amount of people below the line of poverty would potentially be higher than it already is, and the financial stabilty of our people would begin to decline drastically. 

Another factor to consider in the debate about whether we as a society are too materialistic is the stability of our mental health. Most people indulge in shopping for items that would be looked at as unnecessary as a form of stress relief. It makes us feel good to buy something we like not because we need it but simply because it appeals to us. For some people those unnecessary purchases are the only form of stress relief they have. If not granted to indulge in the occasional shopping trip, how does this person maintain their mental health? Will this lead to an increase in depression and possibly suicide rates? A lot of things are left open to potentially happen.

Overall I believe people should mind their own business when it comes to judging other's spending habits. The purchases one person makes shouldn't bother a person so much to the point where they are complaining about materialism. You never know someone situation or how their purchases effect them in their daily lives. Materialism in my opinion is not only necessary, but only of concern to the person spending the money and those it may potentially effect such as family and friends. 

