   Happiness is what everyone strives for, and it seems, many are unable to achieve happiness. Our society doesn't exactly value happiness and as a result only a few are really able to be content with their lives. This happens because, at least in the United states, we have shifted our view away from community and instead towards hyper indivdualism. We push our kids out at 18, while most other cultures let their children stay in the family home well into their 20s. We expect people to solely take care of themselves, we don't have the same relationships with our neighbors that our grandparents did with theirs. If we focused on community, and the happiness of those around us, we would be happier individually. 
   The Covid Pandemic recently proved just how damaging isolation is for our mental health. More people now test for depression than we did before quarantine, and during quarantine we had a spike in suicides. Humans are social animals, always have been, that is why we created society in the first place. We are not meant to be on our own, and our current society makes it almost impossible to create meaningful connections the way we did historically. Some would say, individualism works just fine. That we aren't responsible for eachother, it's not our job to take care of our neighbors. That if you just focus on yourself, and your goals, that will make you happy. But if you look all around us, and you look at history, that is far from the case.
  Historically, our communities were much more tight-knit. You talked to one another, you knew your neighbors, and you helped eachother out whenever possible. You knew who made your bread, who butchered your meat, who grew your produce. Now, everyone is so disconnected that if you look at an egg, you have no idea where it really came from. A chicken, sure, but which chicken? Where was it raised? Who harvested it? We severely undestimate how dependant on eachother we are for happiness. Human beings do have responsibilities towards one another, our happiness is interlinked by design. Our society has gotten as far as it has because we care for eachother. If we focused on only ourselves and our goals, we wouldn't achieve the same happiness we get by focusing on the happiness of others. If the people around you are happy, it is really hard to be unhappy. We are just hard wired that way. If those around you are happy, they are more likely to help you and make you happy as well. 
