In our 21st century life, things can be a lot different than how our parents and grandparents grew up. Advertisements are everywhere. Remedies for what ails you can be found in every form. But are the contents of that little bottle what we really expected? How far does advertising go? Surely the FDA keeps us safe. That's what it's for. Our impression of something is often more effective than the actual words that were used. Sometimes the word itself may not mean exactly what you were led to believe. Sound paranoid?

All natural ingredients. Natural sweeteners. Natural colors and flavors. Organic. Our first impression is that these things are healthier than the alternatives. We've been convinced of it by those shilling their wares for years. Dig a little deeper. What's on the ingredient list? Or what isn't?

That soap in the brown paper packaging looks and sounds like the best alternative to chemical-laden showel gels. But natural isn't a regulated word in America. You can call anything 'natural'. And many natural things aren't healthier than lab-tested alternatives. Natural soap still has a bare minimum of 15% lab-created lye(NaOH). Lab created is much safer than what our grandparents used to make lye soap. Pure lye. Water run through soda ash. The stuff they used to use and would rub your skin raw, or make little burn marks if you left it on too long.  Natural.

Natural essential oils are in every shop. They're all the rage. They're natural, so it must be safe. Just dilute this a bit and drink it. It's healthy, they say. A single milliliter of essential oil is made from the distillation of hundreds of pounds of plant material. While that plant alone may be fantastic for your health, the concentrated bits of it that are left in the essential oil can be very dangerous. Burns, stomach issues, even miscarriages can be caused from this perfectly safe little plant. Natural.

Many plants are unsafe in nearly any dosage. Oleander, nightshade, poison ivy. Those are natural too. They're also full of chemicals. 'Oh, but I don't consume chemicals. I can't put chemicals on my skin.' No water? H2O. No air? O2(and trace amounts of hundreds of other chemicals). Chemical and natural are just the latest in a series of buzzwords designed to convince YOU that whatever they're selling is the better option. Sometimes it is! Maybe it's ultra-filtered and doesn't contain trace amounts of heavy metals or arsenic. Or maybe it's ultra-filtered and filtered out the minerals you need to keep you healthy. Natural. 

The truth is, most 'words' aren't regulated. And advertisers will tell you anything to get you to buy their product. It can be hard in this day and age to figure out what the best options are. Trust the science. Peer-reviewed research can be found online about any subject you can think of. Just because it's natural doesn't mean it's better for you than the alternatives. Sometimes it is! Read the research. Ask your doctor. Whatever you do, don't just blindly believe the label or the person making a profit off of you. And everyone is making a profit off of you.
