Wait! Before you walk out of the door, don't forget to check your face in the mirror. It probably seems silly that you might be promted to look in the mirror before leaving. Likely because you do it before you walk out of the door anyway. Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people, and  checking the mirror is just the beginning of our infatuation with making ourselves better than others. 

Another example of impressions having too much of an effect on people are big-box stores devoted entirely to makeup and beauty products. Sephora, Ulta, even stores like CVS and Walgreens have aisles and aisles of makeup products and beauty items. We put so much emphasis on our image that we alter it to impress other people. Is your skin not perfect? Put on concealer! Are your eyelashes not long enough? Here's some mascara! 

And it's not just in the physical world that we try to form an impression on others. We do the same in the virtual world, too. By logging into Instagram, you will see that influencers create a persona that will sell more products and make more money. Each influencer caters to a certain audience- be it a perfect mom, a flawless makeup artist, or travel blogger. 

One might argue that putting your best foot forward isn't bad. But, there is a difference between putting your best foot forward, and putting a well-manicured, filtered photo of a foot forward. Trying to be caring, hard-working, and nice is quite different than changing your appearance to appease others. People may also argue that businesses can make money however they choose, even if it is by selling makeup and beauty products. While that is true, it's important to understand that by selling these products, they are telling others that who they are can always look better to others.

Almost everything we do tries to create an impression for others- looking at ourselves before we walk out the door, entire stores devoted to beauty products, and a virtual world that focuses on certain impressions. Each thing we do focuses on how others will see it. Our impression on others is what drives us.











