     Modern society should be criticised for being materialistic.  First, we consume too much.  Second, we consume things we don't need.  Third, our consumption has direct negative implications to the world around us.
     Modern society has evolved from previous societies dating back to the primitave hunter/gatherer societies of thousands (if not millions) of years ago.  It was an inherent part of life that gathering things made life more survivable.  Learning to collect seeds and plant them allowed agriculture to develop and in turn allowed our ancestors tha safety and security of established cities and homes. Learning to gather animals and breed them, similarly, allowed for more social security.  But the stability of society also allowed for people to collect more than they need, often as a way to show superiority in some respect.   This seems to have become a way of life, however, in which acquisition itself has become the standard.  We no long acquire things to grow and expand our society and culture.  We want to show off our toys, and let Jim down the street know we have a boat.  We acquire things now out of vanity and self-importance with liuttle concern for the safety of the future.
     While there are plenty of non-essential items in the modern world that one could argue are a 'necessity', do we actually need multiples of them?  Do we need a TV in every room?  We collect pieces of plastic as toys, shoeboxes of old charges for electonics clog our closets, and daily we snap billions of gigs of selfies that will be largely useless in 100 years.  These things underline the seriousness of the cause.  We once collected to grow and now we collect to stand out.  We collect to set ourselves apart from the group.  Even worse, we're forced to collect things we don't need because the people that makes the things we collect make them in such a way that they break or become obsolete within the span of a few years.  Materialism and over-consumption are by design at this point.
     What are the impacts our our over-consumption?  The world itself is dying.  Plastic is not only destroying the natural environment, it's now in our very blood.  Heavy metals pollute the fish we eat.  The air we breathe is filled with particulates that permeate our lungs.  It's 85 degrees on Tuesday in February and 20 degrees on Thursday.  This is all due to our materialistic overconsumption.  In 100 years, the natural environment as we know it today won't exist.  Some scientists also believe the environmental damage that has been done will also directly impact human reproduction.  In 500 years, the human race as we know if might not exist.
     But hey, you're alive right now so why shouldn't you upgrade your phone every year?  Why wouldn't you pay for the convenience of plastic bottles?  Why not have sushi twice a week if you can afford it?  What makes any future person more important than you?  Why should you have to be momentarily inconvenienced?  Once you're dead it won't impact you in any way, so live it up!
