Students and adults alike will face situations in which they must complete an assignment or project that evaluates them against their peers, regardless of whether competition or cooperation was required. Competition evaluates them individually by an assessor, while cooperation often involves peer evaluations. Though both can be effective methods of creating an end product or brainstorming an idea, competition is the more effective alternative. With competition, individuals are more motivated to do their work, are less inhibited by the perspectives of others, and can work at their own comfortable pace. 

It is likely familiar to most of us the feeling of being in a group where one person is stuck doing most of the work while another person does virtually nothing, yet is not held accountable until it is time for peer evaluations. It's possible that someone not complete their responsibilities even in a competitive setting, but they are more likely to be held accountable by the person who assigned them the task, as opposed to just their peers, who they may find less intimidating. This fear of judgement by the assesor will encourage them to do what is required instead of laying about doing nothing. The possibilty to have their work recognized as being their own when they do a good job is even further motivation, as well. While teamwork is a valued strength in when searching for careers, employers also want to see that a person is capable of doing things themselves without relying on other people. They want someone independent who is capable of working with, not dependent on, others. 

Groups can offer a great opportunity to brainstorm with others, bouncing ideas off of one another and building onto them. Unfortunately, many people have novel ideas but fear voicing them because of the risk of being evaluated by others or spoken over. For people with social anxiety particularly, this is a problem that can be solved by competition. When someone is the only person who has to decide whether or not to put their idea into play, it is a lot easier because of the lack of judgement aside from the evaluation of the final project/idea. This lack of inhibition can offer the chance for someone to achieve something amazing with an idea that could have been considered crazy by group members. Of course, sometimes an idea should be warned against, but this is a situation that depends entirely on what group members deem as normal vs. abnormal, and this is a factor that can vary based on cultural background or personal beliefs. In a sense, even though competition is inherently competitive, the brainstorming process of it puts everyone on a level playing field. 

Sometimes groups can have brilliant ideas, but with not enough time to execute it. Everyone works at different speeds, and if members of a group have varying ideas on routes to take, this can be even more of an issue. When working individually in competition, a person can work at the pace that is most suited to them, and plan out the project based on what their known needs and capabilities are. Accounting for one person's capabilities is much more doable than accounting for those of a group, so not only will the brainstorming process be a lot different, but the project process too. Not being so restricted by time would allow people working in competition to spend more time on the quality of what they are creating, as they are diverting less of their energy to the temporal aspect. Furthermore, the stresses of time can make people working in groups be more hostile with one another, especially if the end of the project is nearing but the expected progress has not yet been made. 

The debate of cooperation versus competition, without a doubt, requires a person to reflect on their own experiences with both methods. While there is no shortage of times that cooperation was successful among groups, the successes of competition among individuals outnumbers it, and for several reasons. The magnitude of the differences in each of the scenarios discussed above does not matter as much as whether cooperation or competition prevails in the situation, and for that reason, competition is the better option of the two.  
