Cooperation versus competition is something that people have constantly debated as which is more of a fuel for success.  Does either factor really drive success?  Or is it something different?

There are different measures by different people for success so in my opinion, this is all speculative and dependent on the person's thinking because who is judging the success?  One person might think that by outselling a co-worker, that they are more successful, but that isn't necessarily the case.  The co-worker might be more vested in outselling in a long term aspect and be working on contracts the co-worker isn't aware of and would therefore beat them.  If the co-worker were aware of the competition, it might push them to be selling harder which could improve the entire business.

If I were to have to choose, I would say that competition is more of a way to achieve success because it gives you a drive.  Without something to push someone, they tend to become complacent.  Cooperation does lead to success but also sounds boring.  There are so many variables that this decision relies upon that would be different for every single situation, for every single person.  Competition can be healthy.  Typically the people who are in sales positions are because they are good at what they do, they have a drive to push numbers.  The competition fuels their drive to succeed.

However, cooperation can also go a long way, but only with the right team.  Cooperation is a moot point if you don't have a good team surrounding you.  And the right project.  People can look at using cooperation to succeed as a way for people to buy-in.  In my opinion, cooperation is just another part of doing your job.  If you aren't cooperating, then you are basically competing.  Now if you are looking at personal relationships rather than business, then cooperation might go longer in your success than competition.  A little jealousy can be healthy, but it can also be extremely detrimental to relationships while cooperation can gain a lot of love and respect.  

In conclusion, competition is the fuel for success.  The drive for people to succeed.  Everyone has a different idea of success however.  It is up to each to measure their own.  That on it's own is another competition, potentially with ones self.  That you are happy with yourself is the only way to gauge your success.  It is in your hands.
