Competition is the engine of achievement in human civilization.  The underlying drive to create, build, and distinguish oneself from the lesser-talented masses.  While cooperation allows for refinements and breakthroughs along the original path, the original path is always marked by one individual who was motivated and inspired to be great.

The question of whether one is better than the other is intriguing, as we humans live in a complex civilization in which all parts (people individually) have individual and unique lives, ultimately we become part of many groups.  Family, home society, religious group, nation, etc.   While cooperation is the signature of advanced civilization, competition allows for advanced civilization to come to be.  

Leading scientific breakthroughs and even the scientific method itself were almost always achieved by a single scientist at one moment in time.  Teams exist as well but in the moment when an idea is verified as correct, that is done by the individual.

Newton discovered the mathematical proofs to demonstrate his ideas on natural phenomena.  Einstein did the same.  They distinguished themselves from their peers, I would say from a fierce competitiveness to reach into the darkness that surrounds humanity and bring back some light.  The spirit of achievement is a lone drive.

NASA is a collective of scientists in pursuit of various goals.  Together they are able to achieve but any individual could not.  However, the science is being done in the mind of each person.  What drives them?  Recognition among their peers.  Financial concerns such as promotion or sponsorship or speaking engagements.  Being noted in history books.  Ego-centric concerns that prompt the necessary discipline and hard work.

Various societies in the past have coalesced around basic principles that a few great minds articulated.  Proud, brilliant thinkers.  Wanting to leave their mark on this Earth with their political philosophy.  Together society functions, but without individuals retaining their unique understanding and view of the world, pursuing "truth" to the best of their ability, for a kind of glory and satisfaction of self, the underlying legal and philosophical framework would never be created.  Everyone would be a simple farmer minding his own business.  Afraid or uninterested in disturbing the status quo.

In a world where there is no drive to stand out, to achieve, to seperate oneself, nothing would be accomplished but more of the same.  We celebrate our great innovators for the improvement to quality of life we receive from their contributions, and they in turn are often greatly rewarded.  Materially rewarded, ideologically revered, celebrated and immortalized.  Competition drives innovation and progress, always has and always will.

*NOTE* I finished at 13 minutes remaining and am satisfied with my output.  Just noticed a red box that warned me about being absent from my task.  Not sure what that is about.  There's no way to submit what I wrote yet, so I guess I need to keep shaking my mouse to remain in line with the task, although that was never mentioned in the instructions.  Bit annoying actually.  Wanted to take care of a small set of chores I have ahead of me today.  But instead I will sit here shaking the mouse.
