Living in a modern, capitalist, consumer culture has many advantages.  As an American, we have access to many conveniences not afford to developing countries.  For most of us, among those conveniences are cars, fancy houses, access to medicine and healthcare, and department stores full of a seemingly endless supply of things we may want but do not necessarily need.  From being bombarded with advertising and seeing what our friends and neighbors have, we seek these "things" that may give us a fleeting sense of fulfillment and accomplishment.
However, ironically, in many of those developing countries, the life expectancy and happiness index is often far higher than in the United States.  That is probably because in poorer countries, there is less focus on material "things" and more focus on things that actually matter - family, friends, religion.  There is an actual culture that doesn't revolve around making money just to buy the next thing.  Life is simpler.  
Buying something new may give the consumer a temporary feeling of joy.  However, an even stronger effect is from the inability to buy something.  Say, for instance, someone really wants a boat for cruising around a lake.  That is its only purpose.  It doesn't provide food.  It is a pure luxury item.  However, that person knows he can't afford the fifty thousand dollars it costs.  The next day, he sees his neighbor pull up with a beautiful, shiny, brand new pontoon boat.  The person who can't afford it may feel inadequate, and he may want a boat even worse.  So he runs out and buys a new boat on credit with twenty percent APR.  Now he may find himself in an endless cycle of debt and interest all because he wanted something he knew he couldn't afford.
The people in the developing country don't want a boat for leisure.  They want a boat to put food on the table.  They're not looking for the next material item to buy, they just want to provide for their families.  They may lack many of the modern conveniences and luxury items that we have access to in the United States such as restaurants, cars, and big houses, but they don't find themselves burdened by the downsides of living in a capitalist, consumer society.  This may actually lead to more happiness and a longer, more fulfilling life.  So at the end of the day, are those luxuries and conveniences worth it?


