Everyone wants to be happy. The word is embedded in our culture - espceially in modern western culture. From songs - "Don't worry, be happy," to food - "happy meals," to the more serious right to the "pursuit of happiness," we are told over and over that personal happiness is a worthy goal for our life. But is it the pursuit of happiness that will actually make us happy, or do we find it in actually forgetting about ourselves and pursuing the happiness of those around us?
This essay will attempt to show that real happiness comes from selfless pursuits rather than a never ending chase of our own satisfaction. 

The first example of how chasing the dream of happiness will ultimately never fulfill the goal, is found looking at those in the entertainment business.  Fame, wealth, beauty, travel -  the list is endless of the resources these people have in their chase of what will make them happy. However, by themselves, those resources will not be enough. How many have reached those lofty goals that many aspire to, only to realzie the emptiness that is found there? Drugs, Achohol abuse, and suicide rates are a clear indicator that happiness is not found at the end of what the world would call "sucess."

Another example is social media. Everything looks bright and shiny in an instagram picture. And what do those pictures tell us will make us happy?  The right outfits, the right destinations, the perfect complexion, the perfect figure. Surely we will be happy once we our reality matches the pictures, right? But what's on the screen rarely matches what is behind it, and story after story has emerged of the emptiness behind the flashy pictures. The stress of striving for even just the look of happiness, never mind the real thing. 

But surely, you say, having as much money as you need would certainly take away the stress in my current life, thus bringing happiness. And to this I say, it would certainly bring a measure of security. However, money brings it's own different stresses. My husband is a financial planner for many wealthy people and often, wealth ultimately brings division among families and stress of a different kind. If you are not finding your satisfaction outside of it sucess you will not find it with it. There will always be something more. 

But, you say, "what if it's not success that will make me happy. It's a job, a relationship, a place, an activity. I don't need the flashy type of hapiness." I think you will find that the more strain you place on one thing to make you happy, the greater the fear it will be taken away, leading to an unhealthy dependance on that object, place or person. 

Now think of those people you see in life you are, as Mr Rogers would call them, "the helpers." Often, they are the background people - you may not see their pictures on instagram but you can see their genuine joy when you see them in real life. Those who are quick to ask about you, to see how they can make your life better are often those that seem to have a soul deep happiness that is not easily shaken. They build deep relationships because they are not putting pressure on those relationships to fulfill them. They are generous with their finances because that's not what brings them joy. And in turn, the positive change they bring about will often bring them a deep lasting happiness. 

While a balance of knowing boundaries and personal limits is also important, a life that is lived with an outward focus is always going to produce more happiness than a life lived only for ones self. After all, we are not the only people entitles to life, liberty, and the pursuit of hapiness. Maybe happiness comes in helping others find those very things. 
