Modern society is a complex and nuanced amalgamation of ideaologies and philosphy where a few specific systems currently rule supreme. In our current day, nearly all humans are subjected to Capitalism, the selling and commodification of goods and labor. Nearly everything we do is for some sort of material gain since these material gains ensure enough resources for today's survival and a possibility for tomorrow. However, since we aren't spending all of our time rummaging for food in the jungle, we have more time to focus on the quality of our lives. The quality of life is almost entirely materialistic and subjective, only relevant when compared to another's. Quality of life is the internal motivation for materialistic gain. When addressed externally, this is often referred to as "success." Is a high quality of life with an abundance of luxury truly necessary? Is that what we should truly aspire towards? Material gain has a lot to offer on the surface, but is indeed a very shallow pond with numerous fractured reflections of reality.

What makes people happy? What makes YOU happy? When people think about what makes them happy, you can get the generic answers like cars, money, jewerly, or whatever it may be. But many people will mention their loved ones, their accomplishments, their experiences. However, both groups of people still value material gain as some sort of measure of "sucess." Is success the money in your bank account or is the relief that tomorrow you will be somewhat safe, secure, with a home to live in and food to eat? Spending time on a ridiculous yacht might make you feel successful, but is it the yacht or the experience in the water? Do you value how it makes you feel or the materials themselves? Materialism is often a stand-in for what we truly desire. The world's ensarnment by the likes of Neoliberal politics guarantees this stand-in becomes the center piece of our reality. A simulacrum has become a depiction of truth.

Green numbers going up is supposed to prove the health of a country. Their economy is centered. A job promotion with a grander title and nicer desk is supposed to prove the health of an individual's career. However, if a country's population is dying drastically or exposed to insane inequality, the intial materialistic measure of success is innaccruate. If someone gets a promotion at work, but has their personal life falling apart in the meantime, the material gain means very little. While we focus on the external materials such as "money" or "success," we hope to achieve internal goals such as security. We are told since infancy, that pursuing these materialistic things will grant us security and self worth. Often it isn't as blunt, but the underlying message rings true. "Do good in school so you can get into a good college and end up with a good job." For what? To make more money and provide more for yourself and your family, right? It's not about the money, but we get caught up in that aspect of it. 

Some may disagree and say that materialism isn't that relevant in modern day society. Some say that money and Capitalism in general is the most fair method to produce and maintain a society. However, just walking down the street, one can see every item in reach is for sale with arbitrary numerical values assigned to it. One can't take care of themselves without some sort of material ownership. Even if one were to go out to the jungle and scavenge for food, most likely, that land is "owned" by another and off limits to any other individual. Even getting to the jungle would take some sort of transportation, which again requires material wealth. For those saying it is fair and that material wealth is assigned on merit, there's various ways to dissect this falsehood. Briefly, any sort of inherited wealth is automatically devoid of merit since it was not the heir's efforts that granted wealth, but the effort of another before them. Even if taking the approach of "generational merit," this can be broken down into how this wealth was acquired. Most materialistic wealth was obtained by the oppression of another human. Empires have been built on the backs of slave labor, free for the users. Conquering is not a form of merit that should be rewarded with material wealth. Conquering and enslaving is oppression. The achievements of materialistic wealth from conquerers come at the hands of others, therefore it is devoid of "merit." Translate this arguement into modern day corporations and how they obtain their wealth, how executives are paid times over the workers which actually allow the companies to function. So rarely do those at the top have reasonable merit attached to their materialistic wealth.

All in all, materialism runs the world, but only because it gatekeeps our true desires and needs. If we can see through the fog of material wealth, we can see what truly matters. 
