Images can have too much of an effect on people if they are not aware they are being manipulated or if they become too comfortable with imagery. Most people are aware of the seduction that takes place in product advertising. The  cleverness of some of the ads or it attractiveness may lead some people to buy the product as an appreciation of the quality and fun of the ad. They may think this makes them cool or intellectually superior as they "get" that a seduction is taking place. 

This can become dangerous, however, when dealing with politicians. Allow the surface qualities of any human being to be the attraction and how that person is presented and packaged to sway you can lead to a failure to spot the emptyness of their promises and of the person. If a product is not as good as it looks, well you have just wasted your money. That's a shame but is only a monetary loss. And who knows if a company is smart enough to invest in advertising there is always the chance the product is really good. What do you have to loose as a consumer? You have a 50-50 chance of purchasing a winner.

As a voter, however, you have way too much to loose as does your fellow citizens. If you believe all the glitz and glamour presented by some politicians that are actually empty suits then you loose as a citizen and democracy is indangered. If you believe false symbols of patriotism, the triumphant theme songs, the red, white and blue color schemes without truly listening to what is being said and what the candidates promises, you loose as a citizen and democracy suffers. 

We may think we have become savvy at reading visual imagery if we are good at deciphering advertising because of its endless onslaught in our lives but that does not guarantee we will spot the false promises of a powerhungry politician.  One might think the ongoing appeals of the imagery of adverstising would make us smarter as consumers but it is perhaps that very endless stream of imagery that has deadened our senses and made us less aware and less attentive.  Images have become the argument, rather than they ideas they may want us to believe they support. An empty promise from a politician that looks good is far more dangerous to us than a product designed and promoted to look good to us. 
