        Everyday people see ads on the way to work, watch ads or stories about celebrities on the news or TV or read the news.  Ads are clearly made to influence people to buy the product by making the product more desirable.  Celebrities or politicians are portrayed as heroes or the best when they have not proven this by their actions.  Images and impression have too much effect on people and instead of looking at the real product or person, people believe what they see.  Most of what people see is propaganda and is meant to deceive them to believe what other people want.
         One example is ex-President Donald Trump.  Ads and the news in the beginning of his campaign, described him as a breath of fresh air and as the person Americans have been waiting for.  The ads that ran for his campaign showed him in front of the US flag like he was a great American. People believed these ads and campaigns and he had his own following that later became almost cult-like.  Yet, when he became President, he showed a different side more so than during the election.  This was not what Americans were waiting for.  This was a President that was a narcissist and a racist.  He had no tact and he was not a financial wizard like most people believed.  He had filed for bankruptcy at least twice prior so how did this make him a financial wizard?  He made several racist and discriminatory remarks against minorities and women, demonstrating he truly was not the best choice for an American President, the home of the melting pot. He went on rants several times on Twitter even getting suspended.  This was not the image of an American president. 
          Another example, is the Catholic Church scandal.  People trust priests because of their image and what they stand for.  Most did not believe that priests could have done all these horrible things they were being accused of.  Unfortunately, most of what priests had been accused of was proven to be accurate and worst of all, the Church hid it from the public and usually just moved the priests from one parish to another to avoid any scandals instead of turing these people over to the police to be prosecuted.  The Church did the opposite of what they teach and stand for to try to uphold their holy image. 
           When people see certain images of people, whether it be a celebrity or an occupation, they already have a preconceived idea about them because of what they have seen or heard.  Just like when a person watches a movie or TV series and see a star that was on the show in another movie or series, it is hard to not think of the first character they played.  People should not let images or impressions influence them and should research themselves to find out about a product or a person because like the saying goes, "You can't judge a book by its cover." People easily believe what they see because they believe that if it is printed it must be true.  
