Should Society be criticized for being materialist?

Society has been around for many centuries. We had the cavemen, the romans, and modern society, gradually. Each one had their form of materialism. Every group had their haves and havenots. It was  the havenots that thought of each society within their realm of being too materialistic. Materialism has left many people devastated without anything to eat drink, or wear. It has also helped many people to get their different positions in society. One might think of materialism as being the last point in one's life because it shows they made it and they have what they enjoy.

As mentioned earlier, the cavemen, the romans, and modern society all have forms of materialism. In the caveman era, it was the caves. Some had them and others didn't. Some had wives, and others didn't. Some had weapons and fire, and others didn't. In the roman times, materialism came in the form of how many slaves you had, how many wives you had, how many mansions and stadiums you had. In modern society, cars, clothing, watches, where you went to school, and who you know is what forms materialism. Throughout the centuries, people complained about others being too materialistic. Wars were fought in caveman times, roman times, and modern times to limit materialism and take from those who were considered materialistic. Taxes were spawned that limited materialism. Laws were created to share the spoils. Society has continued to be criticized about materialism. 

The  havenots have continously been left without. many have become extinct or put into slave labor or exploited labor. They are unable to fend for themselves or obtain the educations of those who have acheived materialism. It is they who continue to make changes and decrease materialism in society. One might think Materialism is on decline, that we focus on the general good over individual achievement, and the ability to reward ourselves for our great deeds. 

Materialism in society means that you have made it in your life that you have the housing, the clothing, the family, and the extra amount money that you can spoil yourself. You have made it to a point where you actually sit back and enjoy the materialism that you have accumulated after extremely hard work over the years. Many frown upon rewarding one's self. They say you must share the spoils, share the goods, help the needy, and donate because others are not in your position. This hinders what materialism is all about. It is this that society continues to press on and limit materialism and the ability to achieve individually. From earlier times to modern times, society is based on individualism, freedom of expression, willpower, and the need to benefit yourself before the whole. Many times in previous generations, if you thought about the group over materialism, you could be severely exploited. The greatest country in the World, the United States America has continously promoted the free will of man within its boundaries to achieve what they want or lose everything, but that it is their willpower to make the choice.

When we look back at society from previous centuries to modern times, we can't question ourselves that we are too materialistic. It is our forefathers that brought us to this state, where we can even achieve the goals, the prizes, the fame, the monetary gains. Had we lived in a society with no materialism, we would have no aspirations, no willpower, no goals, no respect for achievers. We as society must grow past the fact that there are some who are jealous of materialism and seek to take it all way from the general public. We must look past the days where we depended on everybody else, and go towards individualism. Continue what our forefathers told us in their writings. It is for us to choose how we speak, how we dress, how we present ourselves, and we must protect that at all cost for future generations. We grow as children, we learn, we educate, we aspire, we achieve, we relax, and we comfort til our ending. Materialism will forever be cemented as the most achieving possibility one can make in Modern society. 

