Have you ever walked down the street and had a flashy sportscar catch your eye? Perhaps a beautiful designer handbag slung under the arm of a passerby? Or maybe even a high-end restaurant with a seemingly endless line to get in - and an even longer waitlist? Materialism is all around us, and it isn't going anywhere any time soon. Modern society oftentimes prides itself on being materialistic, and many individuals pride themselves on owning expensive belongings. People enjoy having fun with their posessions, and many derive a great deal of happiness from shopping for and owning those items. However, there are some critics of materialism, and those critics argue that costly material objects and spending money wildly are insustainable. It is clear that materialism is here to stay, though, and here are a few reasons why.

Owning material objects is a symbol of status. It costs a great deal of money to sustain a high-end lifestyle. Those who are able to afford that lifestyle oftentimes like to show off their wealth and posessions. Or, at the opposite end of the spectrum, people who do not have much money will save up for those material objects to make it look like they have money, and, in turn, status. Not many people wish to be a nobody, so, when given the financial ability and desire to show off that "someone" persona, people take it. This behavior should not be criticized because we only have one life to live. If we wish to make our impact on society by standing out due to our flashy belongings, we should take that opportunity. These belongings show off our status, thus making us feel important, idolized, wanted, and special. Who doesn't want to feel this way? If society thrives off of capitalism, cashflow, and commerce, our materialistic behaviors keep the world running. Society and materialism go hand in hand, so people's desires to shop for and own beautiful things should be glorified, not criticized.

In addition to helping commerce flourish, the emotions associated with our belongings elicit a further sense of happiness. No one wants to go through life as a miserable human being. Buying things makes us happy. We shop when we're sad to feel better; we shop when we're happy to treat ourselves. Whether it's good food, clothes, shoes, handbags, cars, or vacations, we are buying. Life is too short not to experience the finer things in life. Materialism gives us the chance to express ourselves and feel good doing it. We likely would not be happy just sitting at home, not spending our money. We would be beyond bored, and no one wants to show that they are a boring homebody. There are fewer experiences to have at home anyway. When we step out our front doors, we are ready to show off who we are and how we feel. If we were not materialistic, not only would society be at a standstill, but we would be as well. Who wants to be bored when you can go buy stuff - especially those irreplaceable experiences?

It is arguable that physical posessions and materialism cannot make us happy. Being materialistic and wanting more posessions causes us to choose between a larger variety of items which can be stressful or overwhelming. People can be happier with a simpler lifestyle, and that way of living would be better for society anyway, according to some. By not having excess and using our resources wisely, society would improve due to the decrease in energy and resources being used to produce materialistic objects. However, it is easy to refute this argument because, again, we only have one life to live. Resources can be replenishable or renewable to some degree, thus negating any argument that materialism is bad for us and our planet.

It is clear that materialism isn't going anywhere any time soon due to the fact that people showing off their status levels has been a lasting concept throughout time. People buy things to improve their mood, and, in turn, this improves society. Society thrives on materialism; our spending generates funds to keep the country running. Although people say that being materialistic is wasteful and are critical of our spending of money and resources, we only have one life and one planet to experience. Buying that new shirt or handbag won't hurt anyone. The next time you see someone driving by in a shiny new car or walking down the street in a gorgeous pair of shoes, remember that they are living their best life due to materialism, and you should be, too.
