More and more, human society hinges on material goods and the exchange thereof, particularly in advanced capitalist systems. These goods can be nearly anything from plastic toys to kitchen appliances. It's undeniable that the wide availability of goods has improved lives and made daily tasks easier for billions of people, but has our focus on goods gone too far so as to detract from our human experience in other areas?

To address this we dive into existential questions such as "what is the purpose of life?" or "what should the goal of a society be?". Without getting bogged down in these deep philosophical questions let's assume a relatively simple statement; the ideal human society maximizes the happiness of all individuals, prioritizing helping the least happy of the populous. Material goods have taken us very far along towards this goal, but now we have carried it so far as to begin to detract from those gains, and we should consider ways to reframe our relationships with these things.

In the United States, the richest country on earth, we have unexcusable levels of poverty, hunger, violence, mental health issues, and a lower average lifespan than we should. There should be no argument that the USA has the capacity to effectively address these issues and more. Less wealthy countries have implemented effective policies to handle these things, and have consistently scored higher in happiness measures than the United States. What is stopping the country from doing this? Despite an embarrassment of riches and resources the country leaves many behind because of a significant top-heavy distribution of that wealth. A societal obsession with material gain has lead to a small percentage of the population dominating politics, corporations, and other institutions of power by maximizing their own wealth above all other considerations. And they are allowed to do so because the rest of the country, entrenched in a culture of putting productivity and wealth above other considerations, sees this behavior as a virtue that maybe they can emulate one day if they only work hard enough. A societal adjustment, but not a total abandonment, of its relationship with material goods is necessary to bring the standard of happiness in the USA in line with its capabilities as the richest country on earth.

Capitalism and its natural resulting materialism is held up by many to demonstrate the ideal way to increase productivity and efficiency, and thus improve the lives of everyone. It has, without a doubt, taken many countries very far and improved many lives. But there is such a thing as too much of a good thing. While capitalism should not be scrapped or abandoned, it does need to be checked. Financial incentives are often structured to ignore longer term considerations, exploitive side effects, and even ethical or moral considerations so long as revenue goes up and shareholders are compensated. A balance is possible. With smart regulation, more tax dollars (responsibly managed) to improve social safety nets, and a generally higher value placed on personal fulfillment, many benefits of materialsm can be retained while vastly improving the lives of the worst-off citizens.

Modern society over-prioritizes materilism to the detriment of many. The poor, marginalized, and underrepresented are made worse off by an obsession with materialistic maximization. It is possible to meet and exceed the material requirements of the first few levels of Mazlow's heirarchy of needs without allowing unfettered capitalism to run roughshod over all other considerations. If society can relearn how to value mental health, self actualization, compassion, and community in the context of modern capitalism the benefits to all but the most extremely wealthy would be enormous.
