Have you ever fallen for a deep fake or a convincing photoshopped photo that led you to believe something incorrect? It can be pretty embarassing to share what you learned with your friends or family only to find out, you were fooled by technology! Images and impressions have a big effect on people. However, I would argue that this is an important aspect of humanity, a necessary skill; the problem is people who desire to manipulate and deceive others.  

When you think about it, there is no positive use for these deceptive techniques and practices. Creating fake photos or videos, altering images to make a completely different final product, cutting and editing dialogue to change someone's intention, these have no productive value. As humans, we use our powers of observations to determine many things. We make judgments about the safety of a environment, to make decisions about the guilt or innocence of people accused of crimes, to identify plants that are safe to eat, etc. We have the ability to record audio as well as still or video photography which aids us in retaining information for the future or sharing these images and impressions with others. The ability to manipulate these images takes advantage of our need to rely on our vital senses of hearing and vision.

Some people might argue that people should be more discerning but what happens when we as a global community, cannot trust what we see or hear? Paranoia, confusion, and tyranny prevail! The power then belongs to those who have the will, resources, and evil intent to lie in order to dominate. Other people might argue that these altered photos and videos are just done for a laugh and that objectors should just relax and not be so offended all the time. The ability to create a deep fake and convince hundreds of thousands of people that a world leader said or did something they did not, could possibly start World War III. It is no joking matter. 

Let's remember that, while we all live by different sets of rules and regulations depending on our location, religion, culture, etc, there is a code of ethics all humans should live by.  Images and impressions have a lasting and forceful impression on people and this is a necessity for survivial, success, and safety. This should not be taken advantage of by others, whether meant as a joke or as a means to an end, even if the end result seems to justify the manipulation. We should strive for transparency, honesty, and authenticity in our dealings with each other. 
