Happiness is often considered a subjective and vague concept. What truly would be the thing that we as individuals consider "happiness?" The only way to truly define it from philosophical perspective is by asking someone point blank if they are happy. To answer this prompt, one would need to follow up that first question by asking how they feel they are happy or unhappy. In my view, more likely their response would stem from following their own personal goals, rather than the happiness of others.

One must first consider the prompt in believing this idea, and what it's asking. If this question was asking specifically about whether people feel happy at the end of their life, it might be considered that the happiness of others is more likely to make them feel happy. At last breath, one is often thinking more about looking back on their lives. When they laughed, cried, the entire storyline all in one, and recognizing the legacy that has been built from their decisions or mere existance. This legacy could be argued as building happiness for the people they leave behind, the people around you on your deathbed or present at your funeral, mourning your loss as your life affected theirs in a positive way. I've yet to experience death before, at least I don't think, but from what I have experienced discussing death with others, these are the things that make us feel happy as we pass on.

Even then, however, there is a catch that proves personal goals have an impact on happiness more than the happiness of others. One could argue that in order to build the happiness of others, or legacy in the deathbed case, some goals needed to be attained to get to this point. Perhaps you had a goal of making friends in a certain environment, either to alleviate the pain of said environment or just to have someone to confide in. Maybe one of your goals was to build a family, a very common goal, whether it be through getting married, or having a certain amount of kids. Maybe it was to get financially stable, or some other form of stability so that said family or friends can enjoy your company or be comfortable enough so that they can be happy. All of these require goals you set for yourself, that in turn creates the happiness of others.

Ultimately, happiness will forever be like Sysifus (sp?), an unattainable thing that forever involves getting to a certain point and moving the goalposts when you get to that point. Reaching a certain stage in your own life makes you hungry to get to the next one. One will never reach the true form of "happiness," but there is a clear difference between being happy and unhappy. If life suggests, those who got to the goals they wanted to are far more happy.
