The question of happiness is one pondered by many, yet many of us often find it difficult to achieve. While some believe happiness comes from money, completion of goals, or helping others, I believe that both have merit, yet neither lead us to true happiness.

So what is happiness? It is hard to define. We know it is an emotion and it feels good. We may even break it down to a neurological and physiological manifestation of the release of seration and dopamine or an autonomic response; however, does this truely define happiness? I believe that happiness is an achievable emotion, but not a maintainable status. For instance, earning money, completing a goal, or helping others can all lead to an emotion of happiness. One's level of altruism or competitiveness may define which factors elicit this emotion. Unfortunately, the emotion only stays for a little while, then dissapears. We achieve a goal, but then need another goal and another achievement to obtain that feeling of happiness again. We help someone and feel good or maybe even like ourselves for repeatedly helping others, but when is it really enough to sustain that feeling of happiness? I would argue never.

The main basis of this argument is happiness is on a spectrum with sadness. It is not something that can truely be obtained, but an emotion that waxes and wains. If we had to put a number to it (which of course is not a true measure of happiness), lets say 10 is immensly happy and 0 is depressed. Helping someone or obtaining a goal may bring us to a 7 and we feel nice and happy. Say we do this every day and we find that 7 becomes our norm. If this is so, it no longer feels like a 7, but rather a 5. If it is our norm it becomes average and may no longer induce happiness feelings (remember those neurotransmitters from earlier- they will stop firing if the action no longer feels like it is reinforcing us at a higher level). Indeed, one can argue that sadness is needed for happiness. This idea is much similar to the old saying that "sunshine wouldn't be special if it wasn't for rain." We need sadness and bad things to happen to feel happiness.

This idea leads to the larger picture. We can never hold happiness forever, but we can obtain fulfillment. If we are doing something that we value and makes us fulfilled, mood (happy or sad) becomes less relevant. Rather, the action becomes are core interest, not the outcome (mood). In this case, personal goals or happiness of others may elicit fulfillment. If one values achievement, they can rest their hat on the idea that they are continually working towards achievement. This tactic does become difficult if there are lacks of ways to achieve, but it goals are spread amongst different areas of life, there is no reason they could not continually work towards something. Likewise, helping others may be what brings fulfillment. In each case, happiness likely comes at times due to the actions one takes, though more likely, there will be a long lasting feeling of contentness that comes with living a life with meaning and purpose. 

Will people be happy if they focus on personal goals or happiness of others? I do not think we will ever have a true answer, though it likely depends on what gives them the most fulfillment. We can all take a moment to consider what gives us fulfillment and what we value in life. This reflection, and subsequent action, may allow us to live a meaningful life and stop worrying about what will make us happy.
