She thought that she had all of the happiness, attention and glory because of her shiny new car that she showed off on social media, but really, deep down she was struggling emotionally. This is a common problem in today's society, where we want the newest and best things, and don't seem to mind what we sacrifice to get them. Being materialistic is dragging people down behind the scenes, even if they appear to be doing great on the surface.
Modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic. It seems that every day is a competition to own the best things, or to have the most expensive gadgets. People work long hours, and overtime in order to purchase these things that give them a false sense of status. What they are really doing, though, is throwing the balance off in their life, and living a false second life just to impress others. 
What happened to the old days, where just having what is necessary to get by was good enough? With the occurence of social media, it seems that everything is a competition to simply show off. Gone are the days where we didn't need tons of electronics. Gone are the days of not feeling the need to post pictures of everything we own, everything we do, every meal we eat. 
Modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic, because it takes away from what makes life really worth living. All of this energy and time spent on acquiring and showing off goods that we own could be much better used. What about spending it with family? Enjoying a hobby that the whole world doesn't have to see? Creating something with your own hands? Going out and taking part in nature. All of this is thrown to the side, because everyone seems to need the newest gadgets and expensive toys. 
Some may say that being materialistic can be a hobby, or that it is their life, they can choose how they want to spend their energy and money. In the end, I would argue to them that nobody really cares what you own. In the end, when you are old and sitting at home, it really won't matter what kind of car you drove when you were younger, or what kind of phone you had. You will be sad that you weren't spending energy making memories and spending time with family, but instead trying to show off to other fake people online.



