People being people, they can find their own happiness in various ways and for various reasons. As to whether people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others, I personally think that both of these can be accomplished. How?

If people make the happiness of others one of their own personal goals for happiness, then, voila, they can kill two birds with one stone. Of course, this would only work if said people actually cared about others' happiness because many may argue that some people only care about their own happiness and don't give two figs about anybody else's.

While I do grant that this is true and that many people are too selfish and self-centered to care about anybody else but themselves, I prefer to believe that the majority of people do care about others just as much as they care about themselves. So, of course, this means that they care about others' happiness just as much as they care about their own happiness. And let's not get started on those people who are at the other end of the spectrum from selfish people, i.e., people who care more about others than they do themselves. That is not healthy either.

I have had friends and co-workers who think that these two kinds of happiness feed off of one another. I tend to agree. I know from personal experience that when a family member is deeply unhappy, this affects my happiness; but also, when I am sad, this affects my family's happiness. I think that this is the case for most people who have caring hearts.

Lest you let yourself frequently or for a lengthy time fall into depressive periods, it is vital, I think, to monitor your mental and emotional health and get help when you feel it ebbing. In addition, if you are an extremely caring person, you should guard against the pitfalls of constantly putting others' happiness above your own. Sometimes the people that we expend such care on do not realize how much of our energy we expend at our own disadvantage. If our loved ones truly care about us, they would not want us to give an unhealthy amount of ourselves, right?

Also, I am sure being legally responsible for the care of others, as is the case for parents, plays a part in what drives one's happiness. Still, I think that most people have as the goal of their own happiness, the happiness of their loved ones, their friends, and their community. And that community can be anywhere from narrow (just family) to wide (global). Let's not forget, too, that people make themselves and others happy in a variety of ways: anywhere from giving of themselves, their time, or their money.
