If you see a playful puppy, do you smile or frown? Most people will smile at a playful puppy as the puppy's joy is contagious. Do you find joy in your own pursuits soley or from the pursuits of others as well? Although one might find joy in personal endeavors, the pursuit of happniess in others can lead to happiness for both self and others mutually and exponentially.

Happiness is contagious. When we seeing children playing and smiling, we often smile along with them. Their joy is infectious. We want them to be happy and we find pleasure in them being happy. This can be said across many of our relationships. We can choose to aid in that happiness and, when we do, we bring on more happiness for ourselves. Because as prevoiusly mentioned, it's hard not to smile when others are smiling at you!

Helping others leads to personal satisfaction. When we help other people, we fill more fulfilled versus if we soley help ourselves. People often show gratitude or appreciation for such help. We, in turn, feel grateful for being able to provide assistance and having the privilege of doing so. We notice more of what we already have and having gratitude for various things in our lives, increases our personal satisfaction and happiness. Help others and be grateful for your blessings; this will bring you much joy!

The world has become increasingly interconnected via online access and social media. We can see our impact in helping others more measurably than in the past. We can, therefore, see our positive impact in the world more clearly and on humanity as a whole. Having a positive impact creates more of sense of social responsiblity and community for us. Both of these have been shown to increase personal satisifaction. Hence, have a positive impact, increase others' happiness, and feel more joy in your life!

Some people might think that focusing soley on their own pursuits may bring them more joy than helping others or focusing on the happiness of others. Although we may find happiness in personal pursuits, we can find even more joy in helping others and focusing on the happiness of others. As stated above, we find joy in seeing our positive impact and can ride the wave of joy we have helped foster in others. We become more grateful for what we have and for how we are able to contribute to the world around us. Personal pursuits are great but focusing on others joy can be even more rewarding!

Thus, we find more joy when we focus on the happiness of others. We can see how we have impacted the world. We can feel the joy radiating off others which helps us to experience that joy as well. We receive benefits from helping others including the experience of joy, gratitude, sense of community, sense of responisbility and accomplishment, and most relevant happiness ourselves. Focus on the happiness of others and you will, in turn, experience immense happiness yourself! The world needs more happiness and positively with all the stress and turmoil the past few years. Be part of that joy for both others and yourself!
