Materialism ... it is deeply ingrained in our lives and is the engine that moves our capitalistic society forward. It is noble to frown upon materialism and many works of art, movies and articles are daily created to criticize materialism. But why should we reject it?

Rather than hating the idea of materialism we should embrace it and make it our own. We always talk about helping each other and look upon materialism as something that would hinder these efforts. However, if we understand our interconnected global societies we will see that our materialism helps people all over the world. We are horrified to hear that the jeans we purchased here made only pennies for that poor Bangladeshi worker but if we actually asked them we might be surprised to find that they are blessed that they could work for this company and make an honest living and provide for their families. Sure, according to our standards they get inhumanely little wages but they live in an entirely different world. 

Materialism also helps people stay sharp and hard working. We have seen the effects of prohibiting people from owning material possessions in Socialist countries. People get lazy and unimaginative. If there is no personal motivation to work hard then people just don't want to work. But if there is a reason to go to work every day because we can accumulate personal possessions then people tend to work hard, think, imagine and create. It is a very powerful motivator, which will move societies forward. It is as antient as humanity and is deeply ingrained in us.

Proponents of materialism often say that it destroys our societies. Maybe people were closer together when they had less and had to rely on each other more. However, we know from historical evidence that when masses were poorer and had less possessions and had really nothing to lose, there were more wars and much more unrest than today. Since our modern world has entered this capitalistic era and people are able to build their wealth and accumulate possessions our world has been more at peace than before.

Therefore, we should not criticize pople who choose to work hard and accumulate wealth for themselves. Becasue we must understand that this is also the way to create wealth for others around us. Instead of pulling these idividuals down to the level of the less fortunate, we should allow them to rise up then pull the rest of the world up behind them.



