We live in a time when it is difficult to believe what we see online and on television.  Every move that anyone makes is documented and then is out there for everyone to see, but do we see the reality?  Or do we see what the owner of the content we are ingesting is wanting us to see? Who struggles the most with this issue?  Younger people or older people?

While it seems that younger people would be more likely to believe what is seen on television and online (especially social media) adults seem be more challenged.  Younger people have grown up with information being constantly thrown at them and seem to be more able to distinguish between what is real and what is not real.  Maybe it is because they themselves have put out content that is less than factual.  Adults however, tend to bring their own confirmation bias into whatever they are experiencing.

The recent pandemic is an example.  While young people used their access to information to gather facts about the virus and about the ways we could keep ourselves safe, adults simply looked for information to confirm their beliefs.  An adult who believes that the whole thing was a hoax is able to go online and find inforation confirming that the whole thing was a hoax.  Cries of "look it up" and "do your own research" actually meant, "google something written by someone who believes the same way I do."  People were willing to believe anything anyone wrote, as long as it was in line with what they believed.  Anything written that disagreed with their opinion was called "fake news".  Students on the other hand were more willing to look into different view points.  They spent time looking at information that experts posted and were able to draw their own conclusions.

While students and younger people are more willing to spend time gathering information to make informed decisions, their social media consumption creates a different challenge for them.  Even though it is well known that filters and manipulation is used frequently in social media, young people, young women especially are constantly comparing themselves to a standard of physical "beauty" that is not attainable in real life.  This leads to feelings of inadequacy.  Many young girls value the pursuit of phyisical attractiveness above education and relationships causing stress and symptoms of depression.  Students are also encouraged to try things that are not safe and in some cases illegal.  Young people have been hurt and in some cases lost their lives attempting the things they see in social media.  Physical harm and property destruction are prevalent among young people who are infulenced the the images and impressions they get online and on television.

In conclusion, the unreal images and impressions people receive online can cause damage to individuals socially, emotional and in some cases physically.  While it can seem like our younger people who have grown up with technology can cope better with the onslaught of information than our older citizens, both demographics can be negatively affected by the appearances of the information we are constantly receiving.  Hopfully, as technology advances, all people will become better global citizens and develop skills needed to separate reality from what is not real.


