This is a very timely message about materialism. I feel like people have always been a bit materialistic but it has been worse as of late. Granted, people like nice things. We all like nice things but there is a fine line between wanting something and being fanatical with it. Materialism but definition is a person who wants materialism such as a nice car, nice house, designer clothes, etc. To me we have to look at the root of the issue. What is the reason why there are many people who will go to great lengths just for materialism? 

I blame social media for a big part of this. Social media can affect our own well being. How do we see ourselves in the eyes of others? This can certainly effect our own self esteem. We want to buy the latest products sometimes to look and feel like our favorite celebrity either on the silver screen or on our favorite social media. The more we look at social media the worse it gets. Picture after picture we see these people doing amazing things, looking flawless with makeup, and living lives that make us envious. It is a matter of never been satisfied. As humans we strive to want more and more and sometimes it can be unhealthy. 

What are the ways we can combat this unhealthy behavior? I think it's okay that we watch and view social media. But we have to have the ability to take a break. Do something else with our time. We need to go out with our friends and family. Do stuff outside that keeps us busy. Go for walks. Play at the park. Spend time dining out with family and chatting. These are all good activities that keep you moving. It gives you some balance in your life.

People can still post pictures and videos of things on social media. There's nothing wrong with people showing what they are doing. It's good to keep people in the loop. But going out for a night on the town with friends but spending time taking picture after picture isn't great. It's obsessive and keeps you from having fun and being in the moment. 









