We often criticize materialism for the impact it has on greater society as a whole: the desire to produce and cosume more things, the affect that this has on the environment, the morally reprehensible things people will do for the money required to purchase these material possesions. And these criticisms are often valid in many cases, but the inherant nature of materialism shouldn't be written off entirely.

In life, humans need purpose. A good number of humans derive their purpose from the material goods they acquire. Having desirable possesions, such as a nice house or nice car, can make one feel as though they're on a successful path in life. These personal accomplishments are often necissary for people to get through the day-to-day grind of their lives. Without having a particular motivation, such as money or material possesions, what is the incentive for most to continue going to work? Especially if their job happens to be one where the work itself brings them no satisfaction or personal fulfillment, and instead simply exists to acquire a paycheck. This is the unfortunate truth for most people that work; they hate their jobs, and only do them because they have to. Many of these jobs are the sort that are a "necessary evil", so to speak; the kind that nobody wants to do, but people have to do in order to keep society functioning and moving in a positive direction. And if they had nothing to work towards, such as money and material possesions, most people would choose not to do these jobs; and the impact this decision has on society could be costly.

In conclusion, this is why I believe that materialism - while it has its destructive qualities - should not be dismissed entirely, and why modern society need not necessarily be criticized for it. Materialism does provide benefits for a certain percentage of the population, in order for them to find meaning in their own lives. This is important for a number of reasons, the personal fulfillment many recieve from owning nice things being one of them. Materialism certainly isn't without its issues, but it also has its benefits, and the balance that provides is necessary for society to function in a healthy and productive manner.
