After reading a book that most of my senior students (people over the age of 65) considered to have a contrived "happily ever after ending" I asked the class what they thought gave them the most happiness. The answers varied from achieving a goal, to watching a sunset, to performing acts of service. I then asked them why those acts and achievements made them happy. The answers were as diverse as the students, some sought beauty to feel happiness, some felt that accomplishing something was important, whether it be a goal to better themselves or to help others. 

I then asked what gave them more happiness, doing things that made them personally happy, or doing things that ensured the happiness of others. There was a long pause, as if this was a question no one had ever asked before. Finally Sadie, one of my most senior students said, "This has changed over my lifetime. When I was a young wife, making my husband Sam happy always made me feel happy. I'm sure if he were here today, he would have answered the same way about making me happy. When we had children, making our kids happy fulfilled us. We knew we couldn't make them laugh every minute of every day, we didn't have the time or means, but we always tried to make them feel loved. And I think that made them happy." Another student Gennie chimed in, "Yes, we all have to focus on our little part of the world and send out ripples. You can't say that we didn't work on big goals like improving the lot of humanity because we were 'just housewives or homemakers'. I think we changed the world by raising optimistic, thoughtful and caring children. 

As class was drawing to a close I reflected on the experience and wisdom of my students. My work over the years has also changed from being self-focused and goal-oriented to being more outwardly directed and focused on helping others. However, I couldn't have done the service and philanthropic work I do, if I hadn't had the time to learn the skills and gain the knowledge I needed to be helpful. Humans like to think in mutually exclusive opposites, but in terms of the pursuit of happiness, in my own life, and the lives of others in my informal survey, how we find happiness varies over time and circumstances. And finally, seemingly small and insignificant acts of finding pleasure in the world, can also add to the pleasure of many others, whether it be through raising a child, creating a magnificent work of art, or planting a garden. 
