When critics of materialism generally invoke the term, they usually do so as an aside to a braoder criticism of capitalism -- or rather, one aspect of it -- that people work to consume and consume to work. While it's not an innate moral good to simply acquire possessions, neither is it some inherent evil or basis for criticism of a society rich enough to supply those possessions on an open market. What I'll argue below is that the moral neutrality regarding materialism, consumerism, etc. offers no basis for a legitimate social criticism.

The act of consumption is one end of a necessary production cycle for any functioning economy. We rely on the productivity of others, who in turn demand some form of productivity from us, in order to supply essential, and then perhaps disposable, goods and services. At the most basic level, we need to be able to feed, clothe, and shelter ourselves. However, the bare state of nature almost never accommodates our needs in these regards. That's scarcity, the fact that nature simply doesn't provide enough of everything to go around. To make up for that inherent natural deficit, people have to organize in ways that enable them to best fend for themselves and each other. Thus far, what's been proven to work is the price system, an approach to the manufacture and distribution of goods on the basis of the available materials and labor. It's what's lifted all of the post-agricultural world, where a vast majority of people spent millennia toiling to survive from hand to mouth, into an era where we can even entertain the notion that materialism is somehow a moral ill. So, the first problem with any such critique is that it fails the first economic question: Compared to what? Mass destitution? Mandated self-sacrifice? In what masochistic universe does the presence and use of disposable funds, and the means to exchange them for objects of our desires (sometimes things we barely imagine possible a decade ago), ring immoral?

So, seeing how the criticism of materialism is made absent a broader historical context, much less in sincere consideration of the alternative hellscapes in which we can find ourselves, we have no objective reason to accept it. But, what about subjective ones? Is there some psychological harm involved in treasuring what you buy or in worshipping what you own? Perhaps, but unfortunately that can apply to any form of idolatry. Merely singling out instances of people conflating momentary pleasures of purchases with genuine happiness, which is hardly a norm among people, ...
