During the time of depression and happiness a person needs to determine what truley makes them happy. Is it from bringing others happiness or by doing what you enjoy to make yourself happy. Well it dependes on who you are, what your belifs are and most importanlyt what you want to achive. As a first responder I have seen what makes others sad, angry, happy, and I have expereances that my self. Fro me I think to be truly happy for yourself, you need to bring happiness to others and your comunnity. 

During my time as a first respinder, I have been a part of incidnets where people have died and I have a duty to try and help the family so that tey can move forward after the devistaing disaster. I have seen a lot more then the avergae person but I have always found that for my own depression and to make myself happy i need to help others and make their lifes better. Most first responders find that being able to help thers help themseves but they dont always talk about it  when they need to and end up suffering from ptsd. In the case of myself, I suffer from PTSD and it bothers me everyday of the people who I have lost. but I think about the mainly people whom i have helped and who I have saved and brought home.

People need to relize that being a part of the first responder wold is helping others, thats not it, its there to help themseves we throw oursevles into this world to make life better for everyone else. We are the type of people who run towards danger to help our community, to help our people be better and to make the world better. While compared to other lifestyles where you do stuff to make yourself happy, this helps our community as a whole. Being a part of this response will help the community as a whole and make life so mcuh better for everyone eles.

While on the other hand some people spend time doing stuff to make themselves happy like gardeing and such as much fun as that is its nothing compared to the thrill of an emergency and being a part of a response to help the greater good.

Happiness is really determined by what makes life better and to help our community. Being a part of the greater good and helping all of us in a time of need. That is what we need to do and what we all do to help oursevles. Making our community a safer place is the goal we should all achive not just helping ourseves but everyone. Happiness can be made just by helping our neighbors.
