A person leaves their home at 5:30 AM downtown.  They are alone on the train and know that the sun will just hit the tops of the 30 story buildings that lie two miles from Skid Row where, after unlocking the gate that allows access into the office, she begins a full day volunteering processing vouchers for rent for what seems to be countless men, women, and children, who have spent another night, another cold and dangerous night, huddled somewhere in this dark city.  Yet, has long a day as she has in that office, at the end of the day, she knows that she has done something that will pay off for a few souls.  She sits content.

Happiness does not express what each of us should seek.  Rather, we should look at our lives at what we are doing for others, and accept that contentment.  For this woman filling out forms, calling bureaucrats, listening to some teen figure out how he or she will eat that day, from that first woman who walks in, no shower, barely scraps to eat, I'm sure with her frustrations from governmental--federal, state and municipal--red tape, she wants to throw something at a wall.  At that moment, she is hardly 'happy.'  But at another moment, as one or two more that morning find affordable housing or at least a few weeks of life off the streets, a continued source of nourishment or a voucher that helps them learn a skill that could provide income to settle into some place, she senses that frustration quickly dissipate.  She sits content.  Is she jumping for joy? Not necessarily. Does she have the same sense of 'happiness' as the one basking in a park, listening to nature, on a sunny day?  Perhaps even more so, for she fulfills her sense of purpose that contributes far more than she can imagine, even while she does sit at that same park watching the sun set.

Many might think that civic duty or passion contribute little to happiness. The world offers nothing, it seems, to one's own place in the universe, at times.  If nothing else, it creates more angst or conflict. And yes, in many cases, there is a form of 'happiness' that does sweep someone when they are rested, relieved, over all the troubles of life. Most even strive for that.  But their striving for what they cannot find gets them no more closer to happiness than anything else they do, let's say, gets them closer to any other unattainable goal.  

So happiness, or I would prefer, contentment, comes from a sense of purpose, a sense that one knows he or she has contributed to the whole race and placed himself or herself within a larger context, with an almost divine approval, that makes that time on that bench in that park worth more than just having inner peace that comes through personal struggle.  The good then gives to the self.


