Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition. I believe that people achieve more success in their endeavors by cooperating with others, rather than competing with them. Competition is about proving oneself to be more worthy of accolades or recognition than some other person. If you are competing with someone, then you view that person as a threat to your status, whatever that may be. A competition, then, is a situation in which two rivals recognize each other as peers or equals, and set out to better or best that person at something. 

Cooperation, on the other hand, requires that you see the strengths, skills, and talents of other people, and see how they can benefit or contribute to some endeavor. Cooperation among people happens all the time, and so does competition. Both can lead to some form of success, but cooperation between people usually leads to more positive interactions than competition does. Competition usually yields a winner and a loser, while cooperation tends to benefit everyone involved. Although, of course, it is not always so cut and dry. 

Of course, competing with others, whether at work or at play, can yield great reward for people on an individual level. Those who prove they are better workers or smarter or more talented by besting the competition tend to yield great financial and social reward. In competitive situations, there is always something at stake. Losing a competition means losing some often tangible reward or honor. So, if you are great at doing something or exceptional in some way, and you know you can win against competitors, it is possible to achieve more success in competition with others. 

It is very much human nature to compete and to cooperate. Cooperating with others does involve less ego, as it is more an offering of skills or service to a larger aim. Competing is about trying to outperform or outdo another to gain some tangible or intangible reward. Both can lead to success, but competing can lead to a more significant uptick in how you are viewed, respected, and recognized for individual talents, skills, or ability, and by winning a competition, all the glory is yours. So perhaps in that sense, you can achieve more success by competition.


