Cooperation and competition is something that society has clear opinions about. Some may assume that cooperation benefits more for the individual and to his peers that he is against, and some may contend that competition leads to greatness because it emphasizes the drive to do better than others. These two conflict with each other, in that society has different opinions about them, and they both have their positives and negatives.

I think that cooperation is almost definitely better than competition. The reasons are as follows. It is pretty common nowadays where people compete in sports and other activities that emphasize the whole idea of trying to win something. A trophy, award, or any other. Many people, very much commonly, compete against each other and it is only about winning something for their ownself, or their team. This leads to the strive for success in a kinda unhealthy way, because it makes them very opposed to their opponents, such as not giving credit to where it is due, having arguments, and everything that just about poses toxicity. It is not a satisfying way of participating in an event when everyone is just against each other and care about winning selfishly. Cooperation, on the other hand, is better because not only you work with a rivalry, you learn lessons from it. Success is achieved better when everyone is working together for a specific goal, and this only increases the chance of an expected outcome. There is no hate involved, there is acceptance of others, there are multiple minds working to achieve a goal, and a whole lot more.

Now some may say that cooperation may not go so well and still makes a team lose. And what if there are those who believe that there are different ideas and it may not combine effectively for everyone to a specific goal? So for the first one, it may be true, but it doesn't matter. The idea of competition is to compete against others and only caring about yourself in that process. Cooperation may not go well for some people, but it teaches you lessons on how important it is to consider your peers opinions and actions. In the end, it is not about winning, but about the effort you put in to reach it, and this is what cooperation offers. For the second one, it may be true that there are different opinions and they may conflict with each other when cooperating. That is why you need a leader, who can make out the best decisions and ensure that the team is working together. The leader can also try out those opinions and assuring that everyone's opinions count, and can in some way be beneficial. Afterall, no idea or opinion is perfect, a leader considers its effectiveness by implementing it, and it goes from there.

In conclusion, cooperation and competition have their ups and downs. Cooperation is more benefical than competition because not only it teaches you important lessons on how to cooperate with others, and the experiece of putting effort, but that it gives better success when everyone is not against each other and have different ideas. Competition, on the other hand, is not any better because one team or one person is competing for one purpose, and that is to win for themselves with no care about the opposing team, which in a sense implies selfishness and not a healthy mindset.
