Images and impressions definitely have a large effect on people. Whether you are talking about commercials and advertisements on television, products on the shelves in a store, or those people who are in the public eye like celeberties and politicians, they all have one thing in common. They promote products and ideas without explaining the context or reality of the situation.

Almost every product has multiple versions of about the same thing. For example, you can have a lotion that comes in multiple different sizes, shapes, scents, and colors that all do the exact same thing. Why is there so many different options to chose from if they all do the same thing? Because each size, shape, and scent will appeal to a different individual. As long as the packaging looks good, people will pay good money for it just because it is satisfying to look at and will look good on their vanity at home. The ingredients in the product is nothing but an after thought to many consumers. 

Entertainers like Kim Kardashian are constantly advertizing weight loss products on their social media pages. Everyday people like you and me will look at them and think, "I want to look like that so badly I will buy anything they are selling". There does not need to be any explanation on how they actually got the body they have, or any explanation on the product itself. As long as they are selling, people are buying. 

Politicians, on the other hand, typically "sell" ideas instead of products. I would say that the majority of politicians are generally vague about their plans on purpose. Not being vague means that the public will have more from you to pick apart. Being vague means more people can relate to what you are saying and more people will end up voting for you. When in reality most of the promises made by politicians never come to fruition because they were open-ended with no meaning or plan to execute the idea behind the thought. 

Impressions from advertising affect day-to-day lifes of people. They will spend any amount of money for something to look appealing. And they will blindly follow any celeberty or politician selling a product that does nothing. People seem to be moving further and further away from reality and seem to care less about the real affects of a product or idea. 


