The term "materialistic" often has a negative connotation. Labeling a person as being materialistic can create a perception of an individual that they place higher value in possessions over other people or experiences. Society may also determine that the individual places higher priority on spending money rather than saving it towards what others believe to be a better purpose. Materialism, however, is a necessary quality that provides more benefits to society than it is perceived to take away from society.

A person who places higher value in possessions and spending money is constantly contributing to the local and global economy. For example, a materialistic person who purchases a car is directly helping to sustain a car business, keep a car salesperson in a job, and pay taxes that will go towards funding education and other programs needed in society. In using that car, the person is buying gas that will keep a gas station in business and employ workers for the gas station, gas haulers, oil workers, and others. Inevitably, the car will need work done that will ensure automotive repair shops are kept in business along with their employees. If everyone simply kept the money they earned or were given, economies would collapse. 

People who consume goods also contribute to the continued creativity of society. In order to consume a good, the good must be created, meaning a person must have imagined a product, developed prototypes, analyzed saleability, produced the item, and marketed it. Each step in that process requires thought, analysis, and skill. Furthermore, creativity can be challenged by competition; that is, in a market full of similar goods, people must be creative, innovative, and thoughtful about what products may sell, how, and why. Who doesn't love to walk down the potato chip aisle at the grocery store and see all of the different brands and flavors of chips? Without thoughtful, creative people in the world, no new products and businesses would be developed. 

Materialism is often critized by those who have the opposite quality, meaning by those who materialistic people may describe as "cheap" or "stingy". These non-materialistic people may place higher value in experiences or money savings over possessions and tend to save their money. The funny thing is --- the materialistic people in the world help to contribute funds to those that are non-materialistic so the latter can save their money or have their experiences. 

In the end, the world needs to be balanced and include people who are materialistic, non-materialistic, and those who are in between. That being said, society should not be criticized for being materialistic because there are far too many benefits to having a balanced world with different types of people. 
