What is the secret to happiness? This is a question many of us have pondered and a topic I'm sure countless books have been written on. People go to therapists I think mostly for the purpose of searching for ways to cope with negative circumstances and feel happier. Depression is, to say as quite an understatement, a very big deal, and without quoting exact numbers, extremely common. It's the age old question: how to be happy. 

So we must examine this through a lens objectively. There are two main theories to discuss about pathways to happiness. The first, is that one is happiest when they focus on their own goals and feel the freest to concentrate on themselves, and what they want to get out of life. In another viewpoint, one achieves happiness through focusing on others instead of themselves. Basically saying that helping others makes them the happiest. After deeply considering each scenario, I must say that I believe that both of these are true, and the key to true happiness is finding a harmonious balance between each.

I have experiences on both side of the board where sometimes it's necessary to focus on yourself and sometimes its necessary to focus on others. One will never be able to be truly happy if they only care about themself. Multi-millionaires and billionaires can be some of the most unhappy or grouchy people or just putting on a fake smile for the public. Material success doesn't really matter. At the same time, when one only cares about others but completely neglects their personal goals, that can lead you to feeling personally unsatisfied with what you've not been able to achieve. I personally know what it is like to feel caregiver burnout. We regret most the things that we do not do or have gone unfinished.

I think that true happiness is about being able to bloom where you are planted though. It's necessary to care about yourself, others, animals, projects, hobbies, work, and if one is religious or spiritual, God. But everything in balance, always. If you put too much emphasis on one aspect, another will lack. Love yourself as you love others, and love others as yourself. It goes both ways. 

In summation, I urge everyone to not see this as a question not with a black and white answer of focus on EITHER this or that, but that it is important for both to coexist. Think of it as a yinyang, which has been a symbol used for centuries to represent this. I hope that my insight is valuable to anyone who may read this and pray for everyone to find peace and happiness in their own best way. <3
