     "Lay your feet according to your blanket," is what my grandmother used to say to me when I got excited over shopping. This recommendation advises one to spend according to their budget to prevent an economic downfall and to prioritize what important bill or need should be focused on first. Living in Miami, FL where there is a "go broke trying to look rich" mentality, clarification can be gained on how materialism is not only a source of meaning and happiness in the current times but actually has been dominating over the Western culture. This paper will argue on how the modern society should definitely be criticized for being materialistic by delving into the negative societal and moral impacts of materialism.
     One cannot deny that we live in a consumer society, and it is certainly true that society is producing and consuming more and more products, but this doesn't necessarily mean it is because they want to. There is a whole psychology and media behind this type of capitalistic society where advertisements and marketing targets specific groups of possible consumers and finds ways to make their product or services appealing to increase their sales. For instance, the cookies on Internet webpages and the sharing of information between companies all allows thse companies to build a profile/portfolio of what type of product to target you with. It is not just the society, but also the media that is making a shift in the focus of what should be important in life. For instance, an adult can choose to spend their money going partying, clubbing and having the time of their life (paying for a service) while wearing the best luxury brand clothing (paying for a product), and overall contribute to the ongoing problem. However, it is not like they are the ones who built this image of themselves. Rather, from constantly seeing what their ideal self should be like via viewing advertisements, TV shows and films, the person begins to align their ideal self with their true self and try to become their ideal self. On top of it all, this person is continuing with these activities of partying and buying the best clothes while walking by a homeless person that is clearly in desperate need. Doesn't this person think to help the homeless woman or man? Most of the time, if not all the time, they do not. Society and media have made it that we are justifying our materialistic purchases for our happiness over the happiness and joy of helping another human being in need. Rather than deciding to skip out on a cup of Starbucks coffee or not eating Chipotle for that particular day so we can possibly help someone, we are making habits out of our materialistic spending. This phenomenon has contributed to the shift in morals within the society, thereby contributing to an ever-increasing trend of homelessness. Not only are we not caring about the homeless, but the materialistic culture is constantly generating more and more of a homeless population. Individuals who aren't able to see the big picture and who don't lay their feet according to their blanket can ultimately end up without their blanket.
     As can be seen, being materialistic isn't a beneficial quality that should be promoted within a society as it is today. There are many, if not hundreds, of TV shows demonstrating wealthy people splurging in shopping and spending ridicilous amounts of money on basic items, making it seems as if this is the way to live life. Rather, media is only serving to worsen the problem.  There seems to be nurturing of a society that enjoys being "mean girls," not caring of others, always having their way and not willing to compromise. Furthermore, the dominance of materialism within Western cultures, despite the technological advances and developments of these cultures, is creating an immense homeless population issue. The worst of it all is that upon a person becoming homeless, it is as if their previous identity defined by materialism no longer exists, because as soon as they lose the products that they have consumed they have also lost that part of the identity. Perhaps materialism can even be viewed in terms of addiction, where one gets a boost of confidence, self-worth and self-esteem upon consuming the products they enjoy, and to get that same boost, he or she continues shopping in hopes that they will find the happiness they're seeking. However, the individual in this scenario is then failing to realize that the happiness provided by consuming or shopping for products is one that is very temporary and likely isn't true happiness, but merely a reaction to the situation. I like collective societies, such as many Asian populations, where the focus is on the greater good and on the public as a whole rather than individualistic wants and desires, which can provide a more wholesome culture. I don't believe modern collective societies have a focus on materialism, so that distinction should be made.
