Is what you see what you really get in todays society? We often are attracted to different things in our day to day experiences, but what we are attracted to is often the cover, not the actual book. It can  be said that appearances are just a deceptive version of an untrue reality we have formed in our heads. It was Shakespeare that said it best, "all that glitters, is not gold". Not everything that we see sparkling is what we assume it is at first glance, even though it appears to be basic human nature to want to assume the best and see the best.
We could use the argument of a man going shopping for his girlfriend for a gift. Said man, likely has no knowledge of makeup, lipstick, eye liner, lotions, scents but will make a purchased based on a few influences. Likely, when comparing products, he can make a decision based on which has a nicer or more flashy, attractive container. As a female, we know that the product isn't always better just because the box is more attractive.  Furthermore, the worker in the store is likely given a favorable impression of this gentleman taking the time to purchase his girlfriend or wife a gift. He appears thoughtful and caring in appearance. There is always the possibility he is buying the gift because he was verbally abusive to her the day before, or he forgot it was their anniversary so he is buying a gift to make up for it. Would it make a difference if the employee knew the reason he was buying a gift? Not really. But it goes to show the argument that the cover of the book doesn't always accurately describe what you will find inside. He could genuinely be a good boyfriend, searching for the perfect gift, or there could be a whole other side to the story. As a human, we all want to believe it is the first option when we see this in public, but more often than not, reality is not as it seems. There are so many details and pages that are left out when we absorb first impressions from a glance at a product or watching someones actions. Overall, it can be argued that what we see is not always whats hidden behind the front or cover. Often, it is the opposite of what we intially see, think and believe.
It is likley that companies use these attractive advertisements to catch our attention because they know what works with science and research to attract consumers attention. Same can be said for those that are attracted to entertainers that are a totally different person when the cameras shut off. Those companies, those entertainers, those public figures know what they have to do to be the most appealing to the natural eye. After all, nobody picks out the ugly product or envies the quiet, normal person.  I know that myself, personally, I am attracted to the advertisements where women are beautiful and smiling on television. I want to be happy and beautiful much like the model, but that doesn't mean that their beauty product is any better or wose for me just because of how their model presented to me and caught my attention. In the same aspect, I could use that beauty product and in turn never look like the model that attracted me to it in the first place. In today's society there is a specific way we want to look, act, and be viewed as and false first impressions can negatively affect us in the long run without our knowledge.
It is not always harmful to be a critical person and question what you see and what presents in front of you, because it can possibly open up your eyes to a totally different situation that is unbeknownst to those around you. Questioning your reality can lead to you and others around you being exposed to the truth, despite how very different than our initial impression it is. 
