Competition and cooperation are two primary motivators when it comes to economic theory and the theories of other disciplines.  Competition and cooperation are at the heart of the two political-economic theories of the Cold War, furthermore.  Competition can be considered the primary motivator for capitalism, the political-economic theory of the American side of the Cold War.  The U.S.S.R.'s driving theory was communism, which can be considered as analogous to cooperation in the same way as capitalism and the American side.  With the dissolution of the U.S.S.R., one might be inclined to think that cooperation and Communism were the losers in this example.  However, with the rise of China as the leading global economic power, I will argue that cooperation is the more effective of the two forces. 

As of 2022, China has emerged as one of the leading world economies, and the degree to which America outsources its labor to China is an example of this.  More capitalist that Russia, and more communist than the U.S., China has found itself with a hybrid economy.  With its emergence as a top economy, and its rapid modernization in a relatively short period of time, I believe that China has shown that picking an extreme in one way or the other, with regard to competition or cooperation, is not the approach that makes the most economic sense.  China has made the most significant, lasting accomplishments of any of the three aforementioned economies, in the past 30 years.  Its infrastructure has gone from outdated and at times dilapidated, to the standard that other countries aspire to achieve.  High-speed railing in particular, has connected parts of the country, where terrain was tumultous and traveling on your own perilous, and made it affordable and safe. China is not showing any signs of slowing down in these regards, and it will continue to be the standard-bearer for the foreseeable future.  Therefore choosing either competition or cooperation is an approach that will leave one in the past.  

Consider that within the workplace, competition and cooperation are both necessary aspects of a modern workplace.  There are too many other factors, including where competition and/or cooperation is implemented, how it is implemented, why, and many more questions, that determine whether an employee, team or company is successful.  Determining the best applications of competition and cooperation is the factor that makes or breaks people.  Doing so in the modern political and economic worlds will be the factor that makes or breaks a nation. China is like a tech giant, say Google or Apple, that has broken down the complexities of the modern world and as a result is now leading the way in the 21st century.  Others will be left in the past. 
