Have you ever wondered what is more productive between competitive tasks and co-operative tasks? A sports that focuses on competition brings the best in the individual. In companies, teams colloborate to get success together. Do you have a personal thought on how you prefer competition or not in the workplace? You may already have. Or you do not. Everybody's perception is important. Let us see what is better in each of these approaches.

I personal believe that there is more benefits in the colloborative environment. It brings people together and ties them together more closely. It is enjoyable to live a better life.

So what is better in the colloborative environment? It is how life should be built. There are different skills in different people. One person will not have all the skills that he needs to survival. Life is a good example. I cannot make my own food. I need to rely on the food in the shop so I can buy and eat. So I rely on the farmers and drivers to get the food to me. But I can make instruments to help them farm and drive. The farmer and drivers may not have the knowledge to make the tools. They rely on people like me. That is colloboration. That makes everybody's life more happy. If I know my co-worker is colloborative, I feel more ready to share my knowledge and probably ask for help. Colloboration is synergy. It makes 1+1 = 3.

You may wonder why competition is not best. I can see places where competition can be best. In a timed event where everybidy should be stretching to get their best out of themselves, competion is best. It is very short term. However if we make competion beyond that  short window, then life always compares across people and makes it a mental hell.  Another place where competition can be best is to introduce competition in a friendlier get together to break ice across teams. Challenge to do domore pushups or jumps together and ask them to share their experience. Competition brings the best in them but the objective is to break ice - not competition. So again it is short term. So short term compettion is okay but it cannot spill beyond that specified window at all.

All said, colloboration is important. It brings people together. It binds people. It is how many historic events happened. Competition also created historic events but way less than  in number than colloborative events. Colloborate and succeed. 
