Everybody wants to get aheard in life in some way, to make their mark on the world, or at the very least to feel some sort of a feeling of accomplishment and success. There are different ways that people go about trying to achieve success. One of which is through competition, pitting themselves against someone else and seeking to beat them, however that looks in each scenario. Another, however, is through cooporation and teamwork. Those who attempt to achieve success through teammwork, rather than trying to beat someone else, works with others to achieve their end goal.
I believe that, of these two options, teamwork and cooperation is much more likely to achieve results than competition. First and foremost, when you are competing independently, you only have your own skillsets and your own view of the world and creativity to work with. When you work together instead of against one another, you have a much more diverse set of skills and so many more ideas to draw from. Having more to work with and more minds to put together leads to not only coming up with better solutions that lead to success, but often to it happening in less time than if the same results were achieved independently. 
However, while it is true that there are some drawbacks to cooperation, there are also ways to work around these points as well. The biggest drawback is that when working together, often personalities can clash which can lead to arguments and resentment. This can be mitigated and worked through by having a mediator on the team, if necessary. This mediator should be a neutral observer that ensures that, should an argument or unnecessary tension arise, can come up with a solution that can appease each side as best as possible, thus allowing the team to continue to work together in peace. 
In addition to this, while there can be a feeling of euphoria from winning a competiton against somebody or by besting a rival, there is always the flipside that when you are not the one to win in the competition or the rivalry that is being engaged in, there is a feeling of upset and failure. While some may take this as motivation to work even harder and to do even better next time, many others will become discouraged, even to the point of loss of productivity that can be counterative in the success of future projects. However, when working in cooperation rather than competition, when your team does well, the comraderie that usually ensues can be contagious and will generally lead to increased productivity in the future. In the event of a project that the team cooperated on not doing well, then there are usually two positive ways out of the situation. One, is that on the next project that is cooperated on, there are more people trying to figure out what went wrong and what could have gone better, inevitibly coming up with far more than if it had been just one person. The second is that those on the team who feel down and dejected about the level of success on the project can have their moral boosted by others who worked with them, others that don't see them as competition and who do want them to do better and not to get too down.
For many reasons, some productivity related and some related to moral, cooperation and teamwork work better and cause much more success in the long run as apposed to competition and pitting individuals against each other. While working individually and in competition can lead to feelings of superiority and trying to bring others down, teamwork brings people together and encourages creativity and both professional and emotional support within those working together. For these reasons, it is clear that cooperation is not only more efficient and effective, but in the long run much more productive and successful in the long run than competition.
