Since mankind has existed and even life itself, it has been warring with other forms of itself. In this process, lifeforms have worked with each other to topple others, mostly within the same species but sometimes even among others. This process has at times lead to new forms of life and in the human case, a new "race" here and there. Much has been accomplished by this process, sometimes intentionally but a lot by happenstance.

What's more interesting is what has been accomplished by the culture and borders of humans crossing paths with each other, and the resulting conflicts that play out. This has caused wars, large and small, where potentially billions have died in various causes or names. While these wars could easily be described as competition, almost like a game, and have many individuals going against in great misery for little to nothing, unparalleled unity would also emerge from these conflicts in ways we couldn't possible imagine. With every new conflict, we would team with each other and find solutions to some of our most difficult problems, like disease and famine.

With every act of desperation and blood spilt, the demand for better problem-solving would increase, showing us how to better perfect agriculture to keep our hungry populations fed and satisfied, with new medicine and therapeutic techniques to help keep ourselves sustained and healthy. Sometimes the solutions were simple but profound, such as the knowledge of running water being used to combat the destructive life of viruses and bacteria that also compete with us, consuming as much as it can to also sustain itself. Later we would discover chemicals to further enhance this technique, making it easier to live in some of the worst and most debilitating conditions such as parasite infected waters that are host to any number of microscopic pathogens that would tear us apart, while seemingly invisible.

Eventually we created antibiotics and vaccines, increasing what we could tolerate and extending our lives, but also making us far more effective at killing or outlasting each other outside our groups and borders. In World War 2, humanity would begin experimenting with our science to kill each other in increasingly inventive and horrifying ways. Those ways were usually borne out of the same curiosity and desperation that used to saved us from the elements in nature which were the most brutal realities of human life, and now our techniques of science were being used to make us even worse than nature had ever been.

Germany and Japan, of the Axis powers, had begun testing this power in an unyielding cruel capacity. Both were experimenting with chemical warfare, with Germany in particular using Zyklon B to execute Jewish prisoners in concentration camps whose only crime were being born in the wrong century and country, while rushing to create the first atomic bomb. Japan was testing in various places, such as China, just what the human body could endure both physically and mentally, with some of their experiments consisting of testing out how the human body can handle burns, frostbite, some of their own chemicals, even fleas, and possibly the most excruciating, the effects of a total vacuum on the makeup of a human's own body. Some of this had no practical purpose and seemed
