Images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people in my opinion. There is evidence of this everywhere you look around in today's world. Things have become primarily focused on how things look. People seem to mindlessly follow whatever looks good with little regard as to how good the product, service, or person actually is.

One example of how this is apparent in today's world is social media. Social media is all about appearances. People who post on social media often use filters which makes most people have a similar, more universally attractive look. Generally speaking the most attractive users have the most followers and therefore the most influence, which explains why they are referred to as influencers. 

To take this a step further, there are now ads imbedded in many instagram posts, youtube videos, etc which people are drawn to because of an attractive influencer which drives more sales. In addition to being attractive, social media influencers also post things to make their lives seem more interesting or glamorous than they actually are. For instance, influencers post only about their vacations or their cute kids after getting them all dressed up. They may also post about how they donated to charity or volunteered for an organization which makes them seem to be a moral person. You never see the real person for who they are on social media. You only see what the influencer wants you to see.

Another place this effect on people can be observed is in stores. I personally am like most consumers who are drawn to beautiful things on a shelf. Colorful packaging instantly draws people in, making them want to buy a product. Additionally, putting new products in the front or heavily promoting them makes consumers want to purchase them more. Often times I buy such heavily promoted products just to be disappointed with the performance of said products, making me regret the purchase. Despite this, I still find myself in a similar situation with the next "big thing". This seems to just be human nature.

In conclusion, people are definitely focused too much on how things look in my opinion. Everything in the modern world is made to look "shiny" and new so to speak, to draw in customers or followers. Today's world is driven by facades and lies which just cover up the truth which is later to be discovered once a product or service is purchased or once a person's facade crumbles.

