I do not think that modern society should be criticized for being materialistic.  As a society, we have come a long way in our lifestyles, technological developments, and resources.  We have things that our ancestors couldn't even dream about.  I think it is a benefit that we get to enjoy them as we see fit.

People have worked hard to earn their money and they should be able to spend it however they choose.  Some people may want to spend their money on things that may seem frivolous to someone else.  However, it is not the business of anyone besides the person making and spending the money.

Additionally, everyone has different standards as to what they consider to be too materialistic.  There is no universal definition of the term that society lives by.  Every person and/or household has a different amount of resources available to them.  For example, my sister and brother in law make a good bit more money than me.  My sister just traded in her car for a newer, luxury SUV.  According to my standards, that may seem too materialistic.  However, for my sister and brother in law, it is not because they can easily afford it.  To me a materialistic desire may be splurging on a nice bottle of wine.  To my sister, that is not considered extravagant because our income levels, and therefore standards of what is materialistic, are different.

However, I do think there can be pitfalls and negative consequences to being too materialistic.  Some negative aspects may be going into debt and living beyond one's means.  Getting out of those situations may be difficult and take years. However, I reiterate that it is only the business of the person in question and if they choose to spend their money that way then they need to deal with the consequences.  They should not be criticized.

To conclude, I believe that people have earned the right to spend their hard-earned money the way they choose to.  They should not be criticized for being too materialistic due to someone else's standards and judgment.  If their choices lead them into an undesireable situation, then they will have to figure out how to handle it.  People should let others spend their money as they want to without judgment.
