Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. Society's obsession with material goods has caused harm to our society. It has caused economic harm, has harmed interpersonal relationships, has added stress to our lives, and has increased crime rates. Modern society needs to get away from being more materialistic if we hope to return back to a simpler life. 

Society's obsession with material goods has harmed our society in many ways. One othe those was is economically. We are so obsessed with having the best things, the latest gadgets, and the most impressive things that we have put ourselves into debt. This adds a huge amount of stress into our lives and we worry about money, must work more hours, and often multiple jobs just to be able to pay for our things. The few minutes of happiness buying some new electronic gadget may bring,is quickly overshadowed by the reality of now having topay off that item. This negativly effects interpersonal realationships as well. Working more hours, and multiple jobs reduces the amount of time we can spend with friends and family. This can have a negative inpact on those relationships. The stress from owing that money, or working to much can also leave us cranky and short tempered, further putting a strain on our relationships. Studies also show that children are best raised in a home with a parent who stays home. While this is not possible in some families, a lot of families have two working parents so they can have more stuff, bigger homes, more cars, more material goods. This leaves daycares, schools, and other people to shoulder the burden or raising children. This also contributes to children causing more trouble in their teenage years. If there is no one to supervise them they often make choices that are not the best. They might come home after school to an empty house so instead they hand out with friends and can choose to drink, smoke, or do drugs because no one is watching them. Studies have shown that kids with two working parents are often in trouble more than those with a parent at home. This is one of the things that leads to an increase in crime due to materialism. Another thing that contributes to the increased crime rate due to materialism is people stealing so they can either get more money to buy things, or just stealing the things themselves. This way they can have the things they want so they can fit in with society, but don't have to work to get it. As you can see our society would be better off if we were not so obsessed with materialistic items. 

Society's obsession with material items has had many negative effects on our socety. By reducing our dependance on materialism we can lead simpler, happier lives. We will have less debt, and more money which will lead to less stress. We will have more time to spend with our friends and family which will help improve our interpersonal relationships and lead to an increade in happiness. We will also be able to reduce crime as we will have more people to have an eye on our kids and also reduce the need for some people to feel like they need to steal to keep up with the Jones'. Overall reducing our obsession with materialism can only help improve our lives. 
