Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. In today's culture, perception is everything. Everything is about how we can present ourselves to others and how things are presented to us. Many times this is used against people and more often than not the influence is negative. Images and impressions in today's society have far too much of an effect on people. Mutiple sphere of influence constantly surround us.

The biggest route for misleading images is social media. The online world has created a toxic culture of "keeping up with the jones." People tend to only share their best moments on social media- weddings, happy vacations, smiling faces. This gives the impression that people have perfect lives, and as a result, viewers feel the need to show how great their life is, even if they have to doctor it. Instagram and the rise of influencers are a great example of this. The main goal of influencers is to promote a lifestyle. Under the pressure of maintaining their brand, they also give in to the temptation to doctor photos and stories. This is turn is sold to naive consumers as an attainable life. So much of what people see onine isn't real- its all filtered through metaphorical colored glasses, and as a result, skews everyday people and their perception of the world.

Another way people can be incorrectly influences is through the use of advertising. Marketing is just as much a science as an art. Cereal boxes with bright colors and cartoon animals are place at child eye-level in grocery stores. Late night television ads are geared towards adults and the adult industry. With the rise of social media and online shopping, advertising has risen to a brand new level. Internet enginers track users; they know what people look at, what they buy, where they buy their goods. All of this information is bought and traded to create targeted ads. Everywhere people go their ads are catered specially to influence them to buy their product. This in turn with shopping available with a click creates a frictionles shopping enviorment. In addition, the use of "clickbait" draws consumers in with questionable and exaggerated claims The goal of clickbait is to get the buyer to pull the trigger on the product before they think twice. Clickbait is inherently misleading and typically leaves the bamboozled consumer with buyers remorse.

Online society has eased commications online, but has in turn eased how impressible awe are. We are bombared with so much information and so many options every day, it is easy to accept the first thing we see as the "best option" simply to get out of the situation. This has resulted in a manipulative culture that preys on peoples' need for convience rather than their want for honesty. Society has allowed money and speeds to take precidence over our privacy and mental influence. It has been a slipperly slope, and this hill will only get steeper unless people decide otherwise. The greatest weapon again our own ignorance is education. Taking just a few moments to do additional research or reconsider the first thought that pops into our head can make the world of a difference.
