Materialism has always been a topic to talk about. Many agree that it is a problem in society and many can strongly disagree. There are many people in the world that love to spend money and buy things they want but not necessarily need. Buying items that people may not need may cause hoarding. Hoarding is a big problem in the world and no one seems to understand it.

Many people have urges to buy something they want than something they need because the store maybe presented it in a way that makes the item look good. Making a item look presentable at a store is how they make their money. Todays society truly care more for materialistic items more than people around them. A video game to a boy or man can be something so addictive to them and if someone were to either take it away or break it, that person thats addicted to it will get mad at the person that broke it or took it away. This can cause any problems between the person and maybe end up not communicating with that family member anymore. 

I agree, shopping can be fun and buying something you want feels comforting. Is it worth it at the end? Will this item make you feel loved or even make you happy? No items do not have that effect on people, only for a short time period. People make others feel loved, happy, accepted, you can not replace that in no such way. Choosing between your loved ones and a item, your loved ones should be chosen because they are not replaceable and the item is most deffinatley replaceable. 

There are a lot of hoarders in the world and some people do not notice it until its too bad. Hoarding can consist of just a room being full or a house packed full of things. Hoarders will choose their items before their health, loved ones, and home. This is not a healthy invironment for someone to live in. People need a clean home and a clean mindset in order to really understand that that is way more important than items just pilling up in the house. 

In conclusion, materialism should not be something to hate but be something to talk about with your loved ones and be able to support them so they can get past it. Material items can not replace your loved ones in any way and this should be brought up to attention. People that have that mindset need additional love and support from their loved ones. It is a really hard thing to get through and its best that they see they have all the help and love from their friends and family.  
