     Materialism is the engine that drives much of the modern world. Most people in first world nations only strive for objects and things whether they admit it or not. I believe that modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic.
     I'm only halfway through my life but I know now that I wasted too much of my precious life working in the same rat race as everyone else. Most of us don't even realize that we're slowly wasting away life. That's how we're programmed since birth.
     It all begins as soon as we're old enough to attend school. It's always the same routine. Wake up. Eat. Get ready. Go to school. Do homework and acvities. Eat. Go to sleep. Repeat. Every once and a while, playtime with friends.
     When you become an adult, it's basically the same routine as a child except you substitute school with work. Plus, you get the additional of taking care of other people and bills.
     Looking back, comparing my life now to when I was a child, it's obvious these daily routines has made me blind to the fact that I've been living in a materialistic fashion. I'm not as bad as the people to the extreme that try to keep up with the all the latest trends. Nor am I full of virtue as those who have forsaken worldly items. Although, many of those so called "good" people are just virtue signaling and actually like having some nice posessions.
     The argument for being materialistic is understandable. Being materialistic drives our society. It forces people to be productive and contribute to their niche in the world. This is a false choice. Being materialistic is really the only choice in a capitalist society. To choose otherwise, would lead to a life full of hardships.
     I wish I could do away with being materialistic but it's not possible living in a capitalist society. I would love to just spend time with my loved ones and friends. How nice it would be just to indulge in my hobbies and the finer things in life.
     But this utopia can't be achieved without money. So I'm left with being materialistic.
