People achieve more success by cooperating with others, rather than by competing with them. Competition can lead to ill will and bad feelings between people, because competition is a situation where one wins at the expense of another. One person wins a competition, and the best others can be is second best which is not good enough. Worse yet, someone will come in last place, and deal with the stigma that comes with that. In a competition, the rankings and outcome are public, which can make those who don't do well feel uncomfortable and inadequate. This can lead to low self esteem, and can be particularly difficult in situations where the people involved have to deal with each other on a regular basis, such as in a workplace or in a classroom.

On the other hand, cooperation is a joint, team effort, where everyone has the opportunity to contribute and be recognized. More goals can be achieved successfully through cooperation, especially now since the world is more polarized than ever. For example, the United States Congress is very polarized now, with almost an equal split between Democrats and Republicans in the Senate. If Democrats and Republicans would take the stance that half a loaf of bread is better than none, a lot more legislation could pass and become laws that could create progress for the entire American public. However, both parties are not willing to compromise enough to get things done.

In summary, cooperation can lead everyone, not just one, to feel that they got something they wanted, even if it is not everything. The winner take all idea behind competition leads to a large proportion of people not getting anything they wanted. Cooperation is inclusive and creates a situation where everyone can say they won at least something. It also builds good character with young people so they don't grow up to be selfish, spoiled brats that expect to have everything go their way. Cooperation is beneficial for society, our ability to get along with each other and accept and respect others for their differences, and for the greater public good.
