Images and quick impressions have developed into a danger for our society. Social media has been a primary cause of the lack of attention and questioning in the general public. The development of 'thought terminating cliches' in social media - memes - being easily disseminated has caused grievous harm. Look at conspiracy theories and the reinformcement of cognitive reinforcement echo chambers. When the algorithms only show you things you enjoy, and make it easy to digest that content, it creates an addiction. This addiction creates an almost physical reaction against opposing views, which can cause social disruption. The primary offender is facebook as studies have been done on how memes and theories can be disseminated easily among networks and trolls. Twitter is the next worse offendor due to the bot netorks that are known to be on the site. Feeds on these sites showing disinformation or opinions masking as news continue to cause problems. This doesn't even take places like the chans or 8kun into account. Look up the craziness call Qanon and how wide a reach it has. People simply need to have the ability to walk away from their screens and live in a world where they can digest all facts - especially those that make them feel uncomfortable. 

This can be streatched to simple advertising as well. While there are more rules and regulations that govern what the general public sees, people still need to question advertisements - especially those online. Facebook ads have little guidelines and can be used to microtarget options and theories. If you're technically minded, facebook ads can be quickly modified based off their success to micro-target an audience. This is why I personally have cancelled my facebook acount - the platform is a time waste and designed to be addictive and manipulated. Also, if the online advertisement doesn't show an actual product but an idea...please be very skeptical. 

Advertisments deserve your questions and skepticism. Questions everything you see. If you only see things you agree with, advertisments can be targeted to those ideas and cause an addiction. Algorithms can be manipulated to target you. Online advertisements can be manipulated to target you. Memes should not be a primary source of news or opinion for you. Memes are meant to stop your questioning of the content with the picture being associated with the words. Look past it to the reason for it having been created.

Critical thinking needs to stretch beyond your screen and what you see on it. Critical thinking is exposing yourself to information in addition to opinions. Think for yourself beyond your screen and the advertisements that you see. 
