Buying new clothes, driving a shiny new car, eating at the fanciest restaurant in town, sending your child to the very expensive private school in your town. What do all of these actions have in common? They are examples of materialism.

Modern society is full of materialism. We see it on television shows, especially the ever popular reality shows. We see it on social media. Your FaceBook friend took a trip to the Amalfi Coast, your coworker bought a new BMW, etc. We cannot hide from it, it is in our face. Materialism causes some of us to try to keep up with the Kardashians, and it causes others to feel inferior. These are the repercussions of materialism. Jealousy, feeling deprived and wanting to have what other have.

These various emotional responses to materialism causes society to sink lower and lower. It causes stress in both the young and old. Materialism causes people to judge others based on what they own and how they look, rather than focusing on whether someone has a good heart or personality. One major ill of materialism, is the rise in plastic surgery. We have poor people flying to the Dominican Republic and Mexico in order to afford to get new bodies. Unfortunately, these less fortunate people are risking death to have a look that appeals to society.

I have been a victim of the good and bad sides of materialism. I went into debt buying a luxury car, expensive clothes and taking expensive trips. While I felt better temporarily, paying for these material items caused me a good amount of stress. The benefits of this materialism is I grew and learned about other cultures while traveling the world. I will hold those memories in my heart forever.

Yes, people should change things that make them unhappy. If having a nose job or bigger butt will improve their self esteem, then by all means this type of materialism may improve someone's life immensely. On the other hand, what if a person gets surgery after surgery. Are they improving their self-esteem? Or is this an example of how materialism exposes low self-esteem? 

In closing, society should be criticized for  being materialist when it causes harm to an individual's well being. On the other hand, materialism should be tolerated when it boosts an individual's self-esteem.       
