    The warmth and excitement felt by many of us when buying something new to enjoy is normal, but should it be? Materialism has overwhelmed society, but what does that say about us? Is our obsession with acquiring new things something to be criticized? 

    I believe we should absolutely criticize the materialistic nature of our society, but we shouldn't feel at fault for it individually. We often buy new things to fill a void or provide excitement because we don't have the opportunity to find excitement somewhere else. So much of our time is filled with working to survive. Much of the country has more than one job, but few people have adequate savings or quality employers that allow them to go on vacation or have fulfilling hobbies even if we did have the time. Over time a society was created in which survival is expensive and those in power prefer it that way so they can maintain an advantage and hold on the majority of the population. People spend much of their time working to take care of themselves and their families, and when there's extra money left over after paying ever rising costs of living it we feel as if we've succeed so well that we deserve to buy something new. It doesn't take much time to make a new purchase, and it gives us a feeling of satisfaction that we don't have the time or money to get in other ways. 

    Some people may say that anyone who appears to be materialistic is shallow or vain, but I believe they're a reflection of an unbalanced society that does not care for its people. Power in society is exceptionally difficult to change, and though we may try every day, the truth remains that we don't always have access to affordable health care or housing or other resources and time to meet our physical, psychological, and emotional needs. Adding one more shiny toy to our collection of things gives us the feeling of fulfillment we deserve to have through healthier means, but until we make sufficient changes in our society, our materialism remains a reflection of the failures of a society to meet the needs of its people. 
