In today's fast paced fully interconnected world, information is almost too easily obtained.  So much so, that perception becomes or more specifically, perception is reality.  Today's 21st centruy human mind consumes information at a torrid pace, taking snippets of information, sound bites, headlines, assumptions, biases, etc. and processing them faster than any super computer ever could.  Unfortunately, this superficial consumption of information results in incorrect conclusions and a significant negative effect on people, especially about critically important topics.  

These habits combined with how information is presented to consumers make it very difficult for individuals to come away with their own thoughtful opinions on critically important topics.  We certainly do not all have to agree, but if individuals would take more time to study, reflect and consider information before saying and doing things publicly, one would realize we have much more in common than first believed.  The "us" against "them" political mentality and partisanship is a toxic component of our public discourse.  As such, images and impressions certainly have too significant of an effect on people in society as a whole.  This is especially true given the inflammatory nature of how information is reported in the media.  

One simple, yet significant, symptom of this problem is the volume of inaccurate information shared in the social media sphere.  This writer encourages everyone to find an online resource that vettes common assertions in the media, and report back the percentage of items that are both complete and accurate?  I submit the percentage is extremely low.  

While those of the younger generation, digital natives, if you will, do consume information much more quickly than previous generations, if the information is inaccurate and/or incomplete, it's still having a significant negative effect on people.  Furthermore, if we cannot rely on the quality of the information, why do we spend so much time consuming it?  

Finally, I have found no objective measure that supports images and impressions not having a significant effect on consumers of this information.  Individuals, in the blink of an eye, process information and form conclusions at an alarming pace.  If the underlying source information is of poor quality, what a disservice to our society as a whole.  
