Gone are the days when people believe in the quality of the product alone. In those days people want only pure and quality product. They have never fallen prey for the items which are more attractive and of less quality. But people these days buys products which are catchy to see and they are not even intended to check the quality. Another worser kind of this is that, people these days visits shops which are famous only for the sake that it is famous and nothing else. They go there merely for the sake that the shop is famous and people around them buy most of the products from that shops. These days are merely a heaven for the branded shop owners and it is a hell people create for themselves spending their own money.
We cannot say that is good and this is bad. People should have their own sense and they should be aware of the consequences and see that what will happen if we buy things for the sake of advertisement. There are some group of people who are very clever and they totally depend on organic ones when it comes to things such as eatables and beauty products. Those organic products seems well and good but the people who sells these organic ones were not upto the topic of advertising things. They even dont promote their products. Only those who are clever and know fully about its benefits will  opt for those products. We cannot insist people to do research always even for small things. They should have their own common sense.
Those people in media play a major role in promoting these kinds of products by making fake promises like if we apply a particular cream our face will turn white overnight. This is definitely a sin to promote things which are absolutely fake.
All we can say at the end is people around us always will find ways to make money and nothing else. So it is in the hands of the individual to be aware of those fake promises and promotions and to act accordingly. We humans have sense and we should use that to differntiate things. Store bought products are not actually bad and not actually good. We have to examine those items before buying it. Not because of some celebrity or some politicians or some public figures promoting it doesn't mean that we should buy that for sure. It is their duty to promote and get the pay. We can enjoy the advertisement but we cannot totally fall prey to those items.  Some colorful package indeed will attract us but cleverer and colorful advertisements always dont want to be true and good. We should act wisely to overcome it.
