Happiness is something that is hard to quantify and means different things to different people. This also means that happiness is subjective. The Declaration of Independence states that everyone is entitled to "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness". It is important to note that everyone is entitled to the pursuit of happiness and not necessarily happiness itself. For some the pursuit is enough. For some they want to achieve their goals or bring happiness to others, which leads to the question "are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others?".

What is happiness? What makes one person happy isn't likely to work for everyone. Therefore when one is asked "are people more likely to be happy if they focus on personal goals or the happiness of others" is a question that is entirely subjective. There is no one objective statement that fits everyone. That being said when presented with those two options I believe that the pursuit of one's goals brings the most happiness.

Everyone has goals they set for themselves. Even if they may not directly state "x is my goal" every day we are setting goals and objectives to complete. For some the goal may be as simple as trying to make it through the work day. For others they may have long term goals such as losing weight, writing a novel or something else entirely. I believe that focusing on one's goals will bring more happiness than solely focusing on the happiness of others. That isn't to say that one's ultimate goal cannot be to bring happiness to others. For example, one's goal may be to make their spouse happy. They may set out to accomplish this by showing affection, buying gifts and giving massages. Once they have made their partner happy they can then move on to another goal.

Being goal-oriented does not mean ignoring the happiness of others. Both can happen simultaneously. One's goal could even be the goal to bring happiness to others, such as having a goal to bring in desserts for a coworker's birthday. When we think about whether people are more likely to be happy if they focus on personal goals or the happiness of others, I believe that we can conclude goal-oriented behavior brings the most happiness as it is the most well-rounded. Goal-oriented behavior can include the happiness of others. The biggest difference is that having a goal provides a clear path to achieving one's objective. One can find and bring happiness on the way to achieving their goal. Afterall, we are all entitled to the pursuit of happiness. 
