Images and impressions are facets of our everyday life, they inform and can entertain many. To some people it can be the primary way they learn of things as some people are visual learners and learn better by seeing visuals/images. Impressions are used to judge people based on their outward appearance. Impressions are a tool we used to navigate the world we live in, a tool that has been used since people are young. Babies may form an impression of their caregiver based on if their basic needs and not so basic needs are met. These facets do have an effect on the way we see things. In this essay I will attempt to explain my position on whether images have too much of an effect on people.

I believe that images/impressions can indeed have too much affect on people. This can be seen in the how lucrative the marketing/advertising industry is. Companies earn tremendous sums of money from advertising to varied group, they used these ads to induce people to buy their products. This can create in people an unrealstic assessment of themselves- for instance people may believe that they are lesser/inferior if they do not have these products. That they will fail to live up to the erroneous and unrealistic images that are presented in ads. This can be clearly seen in the beauty industry and how it appeals to woman, there seems to be only one type of beauty and girls/women are told if they don't look that way then they are not beautful so they must buy this/that product to fulfill the look.  I'm sure some will say that they're just ads, that people can ignore them. Afterall, others will state that people have free will, they can simply choose not to buy products. To those claims, I say that peer pressure and the types of psychology employed in advertising makes it very difficult for some to argue against the advertising. And that images/impressions matter to all people as they can shape and influence our world.

Impressions of people give us a glimpse or perhaps an view into people's true character or personality and can affect the way we interact with them. As for instance a negative and unfavorable impression of a political candidate will lead us to perhaps not vote for them. A favorable impression would do the opposite. Impressions tied into advertising because through ads we may formed an impression on the actors leading us to be more likely to purchase their products. The thing that is dangerous about using impressions is that they may be wrong and lead us astray. People can use impressions to charm others and influence their actions this is seen in history with dictators like Hitler, Stalin, etc.... Those individuals used the impressions of them to convince people follow certain values, attitues, and beliefs which eventually led to the deaths of many innocents.

I believe I have discuss the subject of images and impression and how they affect people. This influence is clearly seen in the advertising industry where they are used to sell products by giving people a certain ideal of what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. It can be dangerous by affecting people's view of themselves and their self worth.
