Why are beautiful women allowed to skip lines to get into a club? Why are tall men given favorable salaries compared to their shorter peers? Why does a valet driver approach the Land Rover pulling up to the hotel before the Ford Fusion? Could it be that images and impressions have a large effect on society? Have you ever found yourself giddy to be near someone who is always the center of attention or in a friends brand new car? Humans are naturally drawn to beauty and things in pretty packages, but commercialization and advertisements have created superficial consumers that no longer understand true value.

Thinking back to one's high school years one remembers the popular crowd. They were the cheerleaders, the jocks, perhaps the children of wealthy parents. What made these people special? Mostly it was their appearances and their perceived status. The attractive kids were asked out on more dates, and the wealthy kids generally had extra cash to burn on extravagant items and experiences. None of these things necessarily made these kids inherently good people, but everyone still held them in high esteem for what they represented. They represented what society has groomed us to want to be.
Image doesn't stop at high school. It is a known fact that men that are tall garner higher salaries, women that are beautiful receive more tips and special treatment in the workplace. Having desireable looks doesn't make these individuals smarter or more efficient at their jobs. Other people want to be in their favor so perhaps some of the image will rub off on them.

It can be argued that image has only a modest effect. Perhaps the salaries of tall men are only marginally larger than their shorter peers, or beautiful women receive special treatment mostly because they are women. Another argument against how much influence image has on society is that people that do not have an image also manage just fine. The person driving the Subaru gets to work on time the same as the coworker that drives the Infinity. Perhaps people that do not fall into the spectacular category even fare better than those that do as they are free of frivilous concepts, and they can concentrate on less superficial endeavors.

In conclusion, images and impressions of people and objects have a strong effect on most everyone in modern society. The relationship to image is a social construct that humans have created to divide ourselves and create a hierarchy within our species.
