The circular adage is true. People work to earn money so they can buy more things. In turn they must continue to work to maintain what they have, and to get more. That kind of materialism is unhealthy, and it's well past time for society to change its priorities.

Materialism causes people to value character traits that are inherently negative. Billionaires who acquire and horde wealth and material goods are lionized. People who have large collections of items are admired. Someone who works to the point of it impacting their health and relationships may be seen as a go-getter. Just consider "hustle culture" that emphasizes taking on multiple jobs simply to increase income. That is largely driven by a desire to acquire more stuff.

All of this materialism also has a negative impact on the environment. Manufacturing all of these consumer goods, and then transporting them uses fossil fuels extensively. There's also the matter of emissions created in the manufacturing process. Eventually, material goods must be thrown away. Recycling doesn't make a dent in the amount of waste we produce.

Naturally, this brings up an important counterpoint. People should have the freedom to purchase items that they want or need. This is a valid argument, but doesn't adequately address the cause and impacts of materialism which often leads to a skewed perspective of wants and needs.

Materialism also has a negative impact on relationships. Work for material goods keeps people from focusing on relationships. Additionally, rather than valuing traits such as compassion and intelligence in family, friends, and romantic partner, people are taught to value earning power and the ability to acquire goods.

Ultimately, there's nothing wrong with wanting items that have utility, aesthetic beauty, or that cause genuine pleasure. The problem is the relentless materialism and throughtless consumption that has seriously impacted quality of life and encourages the exploitation ofall but a few. The vast majority of people would benefit if our collective values and priorities shift.
