happiness is the term which related to both  our body and mind. i think people will be more happy when they focused on other happiness.  

happiness is a truely feelings most of the people are live around us and we should take care of this people. if we think about our personal goals i think it will make us selfish .sometimes its true that people should pursuing their own personal goals and achieved most of the disered things but most of the time they are not think about the others happiness. truly happiness always comes when we do better for our society   if i have a lot of money for my personal uses and there are many people around my neighbour who need money but i donot take care them it will be never happiness. when i help this people my happiness will be achieved. in our society their are lot of people but do not think about others they will be not happy in their life. when i help the needy people it gives me pleasure and my mind always think about others happiness. when others people are happy with my attitude i feel very proud and myself and my mind becomes fresh. so we should think about others happiness when others are happy we will be happy.and this habit should be practiced from our childhood. personal happiness means just doing everything for own and always think about own dreams this will not be good for a human being. personal achievement gives us personal happiness it will not be helpful for others people.

Most of the well known people live in the society they have a lot of money for buying there necessary thingd but they are unhappy in their life because of illness . so we should always remmember that money doesnot makes a man happy. happyness also lies on our body .if we diagnosed a disease this will makes me unhappy and i will not enjoy my life.so helps the humanity makes a man truely happy person.we always should looking for others happiness. as a human being we also have a duty to serve the people around us and helps them without hesitate.  so i think people will be more happy if they focus on the happiness of others. 
