My position is that people can only be truly happy if they are looking outward and in consideration of others. When you spend your life trying to make the people around you more successful or happy, you end up feeling satisfied and pleased with yourself. It is important to recognize that you are influenced by the environment that surrounds you. If you are surrounded by happy people, then you have a tendency to feel happier. Therefore, it is important for you to try your hardest to make those other people happy. Together you can all then feel satisfied. 

Sometimes you need to help others to reach their goals in order for them to feel happy. Even though you do not benefit necessarily from their accomplishment, the fact that they do improves their life. Once they feel better about their life, you can have the opportunity to feel satisfied that you helped them get to that point. That satisfaction is an expression of happiness.

Consider what it is like when you have a pet. It is not necessary to have one, and it is really something that is done to please yourself. However, once you have a pet, you find that it is important that they feel happy and safe. You spend a lot of time and money trying to make the pet feel comfortable. When you recognize that they feel secure in your attention and love, it makes you feel pleased and happy. By making the pet feel good, you in turn end up feeling good. If your pet was unhappy and miserable, it would make you feel unhappy or even angry. Therefore your goal most likely is to try and make your pet happy, which in turn will make you happy too.

Another thought is donating time or money to charity. There is no obligation to do that, but it can improve your self image. Sometimes seeing the impact that you make on others is crucial to your self esteem. The more time or money that you spend helping others that are less fortunate than you are, the more pleased you may end up feeling about yourself. You may feel proud. That leads to a feeling of happiness. 

There are a lot of people who believe that they only need to be concerned with themselves and their own happiness. They spend their lives in pursuit of wealth or attention. While it may appear that they are living good lives or are very happy, it is difficult to judge whether that is the case. It is understandable to believe that if all your needs are met and perhaps even all your desires are, that that would lead to a wonderful and happy life. They believe that if they meet their own goals, that the satisfaction of having done that will lead to being happy. 

I do not believe that would be the case. I don't think that people can truly be happy alone. It's like if you had a wonderful party, with everything that you ever wanted there, a carnival-like atmosphere with games and the best foods possible. How happy would you be if you were there alone and there was no one to share the experience with you? If you were the only one enjoying the food and the games, how long would you feel satisfied? 

There is a good argument to be made that you should have goals and you should aspire to meet them. It is true that attaining your goals does lead to a feeling of success and happiness. But life cannot just be about a fleeting moment of happiness that you experience alone. Yes, you can feel happiness when you reach your goals and have some of your dreams met. I think it comes down to the depth of the happiness and the length of time that it lasts. 

Overall I think that it is obvious that there is no one clear path to happiness. My belief is that the path leads through the happiness of others. If you spend your energy trying to improve the lives of the people around you, that will lead to a feeling of satisfaction and happiness. 


