Society is something that had constanly advanced to become what it is today and to become even better in the future. As society advanced we have become more matierlistic, but have continued to imrove upon the past. This is why being materialistic is integral to our society today and shouldn't be as criticized as it is for today because it is part of advancing our society.

A society that is materlistic wants its producers making the stuff to keep improving in order to comepete with other producers to try and make something the consumer wants instead. For example products like the smartphone, without a materlistic society, we would probably still be stuck on cellphones like flipphones for longer because there is nothing to drive better products without be materlistic. This type of staggering progress as there is no demand for it means that society will develop at a slower rate because of it.

Another about a  materliastic society that shouldn't criticized for is that humans are intrinsically selfish creatures that want to consume stuff, thus leading to a society that needs more of it. While some say that there are people that aren't, that they give out donations, but that is still a selfish way of life, you donate to selfishly feel better about yourself and how you are helping helps make you feell better. So obviously a selfish creature that manages to make modern society will then have a materialistic society, and that isn't a bad thing.

Some might argue against modern society being materialistic has lead us to not caring about the environment as much and proceeding to destroy the Earth we live on. Well to counterargue that, what about the companies nowadays that compete in the market by being environmentally friendly, it is still a materialistic view but instead of making a better product, the product in demand is about the environment. This mean companies will go out of their way to be enviromentallyn friendly to compete with other companies doing the same. This could lead to revolutionary ways to improve society if something can be found to improve society further by focusing on other ways to keep the environment saved. For example, how different fuel sources have been found, and now people produce and consume the safer electric car now. 

So society becoming materialistic is now an integral part of it, and that isn't a bad thing, just something different. It leads to improvements to the technology and objects produced to actually advance our society forward. While it isn't alway the most pleasent thought that humans are selfish, it isn't an important one that results in a better future because of it.
