Cooperation is very important in the work environment. It is important to get along with those we work with because it gives us a great calm environment and it helps us with our anxiety. I work with children at a daycare center and we are all friends and get along very well. We all learn from each other a lot. We help each other out in order to run a great classroom for the children. For example, I am not good at disciplining the children but I am great at writing the lesson plans. My other coworker has a louder sterner voice and the chldren will listen to her very well. 

We help each other with education. I have a bachelors degree so I help younger workrs who don't have any experience at all. I give them a lot of great strategies on how to run a classroom. As a result they help me to work around my busy family schedule since they don't have any young children of their own. They will work later so I can get home in time for my family. If their is a problem at work they will call me to get help and advice. If we did not cooperate with each other than the classroom would not run well at all. We also trust each other and we don't get nervous a lot at work because we help each other if their is a problem.

We talk to each other when complaints are made by parents or the owner so the problem can get fixed right away. As a result no one has gotten fired for many years and the children have the same caregivers everyday. Most daycares have high turn over but we don't. It is great that we enjoy coming to work and we are not looking for a new job at all. We feel like family.

When one of us suceeds it helps our business a lot and the children. A business will fail if their is a high turnover rate and no one communicates and works together. If people dread coming to a job they will quit and the company will always have to spend a lot of money finding new workers. We benefit because we get raises every year and more paid vacation time since we have been working their for a while. 

I think some competition is important but the good kind of competition and not the bad kind. For example, it's great to set goals together on new ways to fundraise for the daycare center. Every year we have a huge pizza sale and we all try to sell the most pizzas to parents and friends. But the end goal helps the whole center and not just us as individuals. 

The owner is happy that she doesn't have to worry about hiring new people and the parents are very happy that the staff is knowledgeable and consistant. Many parents told us they had to pull their child out of other daycares because of the high turnover and because the rooms were always out of ratio and not following state laws. We make sure that we remind each other about state laws so all the children can be safe. We contact the state licensing on our own a lot to make sure that we are not accidentally breaking any laws. Since the laws often change we make sure we look at the new rule handbooks a lot. When a worker gets a raise it makes us all happy because then the other ones who have trained and helped them also get a raise too.

I have bad anxiety so I am glad that I can work in a great friendly environment. I am happy that they are like family to me. I know that if an emergency comes up they will understand and help me to cover my shift. For example, when I was out of work for maternity leave they were all understanding and they did not hold it against me at all. 

My job is a lot easier when we work together because they help me to do extra chores such as getting all the art supplies for the curriculum. A lot of times they will know how to find free donated items from churches that we can use to build a better curriculum. We also save a lot of time and money because we share resources for work. We also take turns buying each other lunch because some of us live closer to different restaurants with different deals on food.  

Communication protects us and the children. For example, we make sure that no one is alone with a child. This protects the children from abuse but it also protects the workers from being blamed or falsely accused of something that they did not do. This has helped us before in the past when the police came because they thought a child got injured at the center but it ended up happening at home with a different babysitter who tried to blame it on us. 

We work on getting along with the other classrooms at the center. So the parents are not worried when their children have to go to a new classroom. We communicate with the other teachers and make sure that the children will have a great experience and 
their different personalities will be respected. We will take the children in to tour the new room and give them time to adjust before they have to move up. We also will work with the parents to make sure that their children are happy in our classroom when they are new. 

I would never have gotten my early childhood degree if I never got a lot of help from the people I worked with. My coworkers worked around my school schedule even though it was inconvient for them because they knew it was very important. As a result  I used my new skills from the ECH classes to improve my skills at work. 

Many daycare centers shut down or go out of business because they can't afford to pay their workers and they quit. But the parents our happy to pay more for tuition because we give their children a better education and we have lots of experience and college training that we took. We also take a lot of ECH workshops together so we can learn more about how to become even better teachers. We will carpool and go to workshops together so that will save us a lot of money. 

In conclusion, I am so happy that we work together because it makes me happy and it helps me with my anxiety. Our daycare center is one of the best and the parents and children are all so happy. We all love our job a lot.
