It is an age old question: Are we more happy if we focus on ourselves or others? Is the proper path to joy enriching our own lives, or nurturing the life of others? I thoroughly believe it is the latter. While we may experience momentary positive emotions when we benefit ourselves, the more gratifying solution is acts of altruism and showing love and compassion for others. 

I know too many people who are constantly striving for happiness. For some reason, they don't feel as happy as they should, and they wish they could be as happy as those around them. I think this already puts the person off on the wrong foot, with their desire for joy being self-focused in nature. So, they will naturally try to find things externally to fill the void inside: money, material items, approval of others, a good job, house, or car. They find that the good feelings these bring are fleeting, and they seek ever greater things outside themselves to feel joy. However, the people I know who radiate true happiness consistently have given up the chase. How and why? They have reached a point of peace and contentment in their life, satisfied and grateful for what they have. They focus on the needs and wants of others instead of a self-focused view. They're kind, compassionate, open minded, and giving. They do these things for no other reward than the happiness that it brings others, and they experience a true happiness themselves, born of from their esteemable acts. 

We always hear about self-esteem, and how important it is to be confident and love yourself. Well, like the quest to find happiness, this is easier said than done. No one externally can make you love yourself. However, if you live in ways that are of service to others, you actions guided by ethics and principles, you will find a deep pride and satisfaction in your life. You will create your own happiness. That isn't to say that you need to live like a monk, only focused on helping others, but even doing little things every day, such as greeting someone with a smile, giving an encouraging word to others, holding a door for someone, these things add up. The better you feel about yourself, the less fixated you will be on finding happiness, because it will just come naturally. The best way to get out of your own mind is to focus on others and put youself in their shoes.

Now, I get it. Some people are very success oriented. They take great pride in their job, their education, the things they own as a tangible measure of what they have achieved. Having a stable life with enough money to pay your way is important, and at the very least, will keep you from being miserable with stress, not knowing how to make ends meet. However, some of the most successful people I know in this regard struggle in other ways: They're lonely, they experience interpersonal strife, or they simply don't have time to appreciate what they've achieved since they work so much. Often, they have to work harder and longer just to feel satisfied. Conversely, I know many people who don't have much, but they volunteer, help others, and treat others with kindness. They just seem much more content in their life than the former group.

That is the real secret: What you hope to find when you search for happiness is really contentment. True happiness is no longer wanting that next thing. It's ok to desire things. However, don't count on them bringing true and lasting happiness to your life. Try it for one month: Each day, do your best to treat others well, be helpful, and lift others up. Focus on others and not yourself (obviously still tend to the necessary things in your life, though). I am certain you will feel much better about yourself, and you'll notice a significant shift in your outlook. You'll find that the happiness you sought was there all along, waiting to be unlocked by doing your part to make our world a little better.
