The goal of happiness is different for many people, but I believe that for me it is a combination of pursuing my own dreams combined with making sure that others are happy. I believe that I am able to do this by doing something in my life that is both of benefit to me and to others.

In this case, 'others' refers to abandoned and abused animals. My life's dream has always been to open an animal sanctuary to help animals that have been left to fend for themselves, or subjected to cruelty by other human beings. I truly believe that I can make a difference in this world if I devote my life to this. 

It is a fact that an animal will thrive if it is given the love and care that it needs, and there are way to many animals in shelters that are there through no fault of their own. They need help, and in many cases can be rehomed with a family that will truly care for them. This world belongs to all of us, human and and animals, and we have a duty to ensure that we all thrive together. 

In many cases, a rehomed animal will also greatly benefit the happiness of the person who decides to share their life with them, so this is also a benefit for both. It would also make me extremely happy to see an animal that I had cared for find a forever home with someone who can give them the life that they deserve. 

Of course, people might way that there are more important things in this world than 'rescuing' animals, but they need our help just as much as other humans do. They are as important as humans, and we have a duty to ensure that they are cared for, especially when we are usually responsible for their lives. They have just as much right as we do to live a happy life. Considering the fact that we as humans are responsible for much of the animal cruelty in this world, we owe it to them to make amends.

In conclusion, I think that this would help both myself and the animals that need care. It would be both focussing on my goals and the happiness of others. It isn't a lot in the grand scheme of things, but it would be my contribution to the world, my happiness and their well-being.


