In 2022, society has become more materialistic than ever because of the way in which the pandemic forced new forms of consumerism as part of the preventative measures taken to protect people. That said, society in general certaintly shouldn't be criticized for being materialistic given how materialism and survival go hand in hand. Yet, there is also reason to criticize. 

Below I provide examples of both points:

Should anyone, for example, criticize MTurk workers for wanting to be paid for the work that they perform? MTurk workers spend a lot of time, as evident by this HIT and essay, "performing" for requesters. They expect little in return. They merely expect to receive an amount of money that equals the work that they put into their effort. Is this an example of materialism? No. Even though the effort involves the acquisition of money, I would argue it's no more materialistic than what any other worker beyond this platform expects and needs to possess any good standard of living in our modern society. It's a matter of survival. So, from this perspective, no, modern society shouldn't be critized because materialism is part of the systems in place that help people to survive.

Yet, then a worker, once they get halfway through the HIT, is told that if there's any plagiarism found in their essay or they don't address the prompt question, then they only receive 25 cents for an hour's worth of work. Who then is being more materialistic? I would argue that the requester who would cheat the worker of their hard earned wage is not only being materialistic (i.e. holding onto their money greedily), but they should most certainly be criticized for it. They are proof that at least some people within our modern society should be criticized for being materialistic. 

Why? 

MTurk workers regularly come across requesters who come up with excuses for why they won't pay either the promised rate or any bonus because those requesters don't want to pay. Again, they greedily hold onto their money just like some people hold onto possessions. It's become worse as the pandemic has progressed with requesters who know full well that workers are desperate and use that desperation against them. Some pay a penny or two for a 10 minute survey. Some wait until halfway through a survey to announce, abusively, new rules and requirements or set up a timer that actually runs slower than the 30 minutes they claim it runs. 

They stack the pressure on and then wonder later why no one will touch their HITs. It's shameful. And it most certainly should be criticized. It's small example of the larger problem with our modern society that focuses more on self-interest and materialism than what is right over what is most certainly wrong. 

If I don't receive my the bonus for some shoddy excuse of plagiarism, not meeting your writing prompt or not staying on the page (i.e. to go to the other tab to confirm that your timer is in fact abusively running slower than normal), I will most certainly report you to your IRB and on Turkerview here: https://turkerview.com/requesters/A5IZF8LFLYI7I-l-pal# and on the reddit MTurk forum. 

After all, it would be the best example of why we should criticize modern society, or rather those who abuse others in our modern society, for being too materialistic.  I will effortlessly prove the point of the writing prompt on both private and public forums. And that's an example of my focus on self-interest and materialism. I selected your HIT in good faith only to get to this timed page and feel like I was tricked and manipulated.

Since I've now written more than 700 words and numerous paragraphs, I've can say with certainty that you proved the point of your bold-text prompt question with your warnings, the timer and really this entire survey. If you weren't so materialistic and the society that made you deserving of criticism, then why would you believe that you're in the right to take advantage of desperate workers this way who came to your survey with good intentions?

You should be ashamed. You should be utterly disgusted with yourself.

As the writers said in that somewhat great work of Game of Thrones that was horribly destroyed in its final season: "Shame. Shame. Shame." I rebuke you for your materialism and slave labor mentality. And that is the point of this essay, isn't it? To address if modern society should be criticized for being materialistic? 
