I feel it is important to understand that both competition and cooperation both have their time to be utilized. The best case scenario will almost always be one that includes both of these skills. Even in apsects such as sports where competition seems like the focal view, cooperation is still important. Take boxing for example, where all we see is the boxer fighting against another boxer for the victory. To get to the point where the boxer is ready, they need to bring other people in for their training camp for sparring, need to have their trainers and coaches on point, and also need their family to cooperate and be ok with them putting in so many hours at the gym.

There are so many examples of people achieving success using both of these skills, and I do not think there is really any situation that does not include a mix if we are going all the way down to the root. Even someone who has  started their own business individually most likely had to get important people on their side in order to make things meet, or watch informational videos made by other people. Due to our world being so connected nowadays, it would be pretty foolish to not use these resources around us to become successfull. 

I can imagine a scenario where someone may be on a deserted island and have to become successful and survive by their own means, but this is really only because they are outside of being connected. They may have to hunt on their own and build their own weapons and shelter to get by. They may then eventually get to a point where they are able to sail to another island and sell some of their resources for money, and maybe meet a partner with whom they have children. This family may be the ones who begin the repopulation of the island and have literally started everything from scratch. Nowadays, I just do not feel that someone is going to be able to reach their full potential without cooperating with others at least a little bit. If you have the same perspective that I have, then you will always be able to think about someone who may have helped you along the way of your success, even if your success is reached through something that may seem extremely competition driven.

I have been an athlete all my life, so I think of it from an athlete's perspective of going pro, becoming famous, and making money. These athletes get all the glory, but others do not realize that there was a lot of work put in from a number of different people to help this athlete reach these goals. You could go all the way down to the parents of the athlete, and the way they raised them. Or if it was a sport like football, maybe the offensive line for allowing the quarterback to have the massive numbers they have, or in basketball maybe the center for setting great picks for the point guard allowing them to see the floor and get open for shots. Everyone's mindset is different, and maybe focusing on being competitive is more helpful for some people, however this does not mean that you should not give credit where it is due when it comes to the people who helped you along the way to get to your goals.

So in conclusion, in my personal opinion I feel someone is going to be more successful if they use both competition and cooperation. Only cooperating may cause you to not speak your voice as often, and put you more in the "go with the flow" type of position. For you to be successful and go to where you want to go, you are going to need to be able to make your own decisions. Without mixing these two skills together, you are going to severely limit your success. This is why the combination of the two is really the key to getting the most out of what you and the world have to offer.
