       Happiness is something that is very personal and individual to each and every person in the world. For some people happiness can be found in themselves by focusing on goals or aspirations or even something as simple as self care and love. For others, happiness can be found in other people. Both are  valid ways in which to find happiness but I'm going to argue that finding happiness by focusing on onesself is the best way to do so. 
       Finding happiness within is certainly the safest and easiest bet. Some might say that happiness can be found in others, and while that is true, there is nothing more rewarding than focusing on yourself in order to build your own happiness. It could be argued that until someone finds a sense of happiness within themselves they may not even be able to find happiness within others. While some others might say that finding happiness in others is the correct type of happiness, the most selfless, is it really a sincere feeling of happiness or is it more an eager attempt to fill a void you are unable to fill within yourself? Id say that people who can bring themselves happiness by working with themselves are more able to provide to the happiness of others because they do it because they want to, not to fulfill some need with other people.  This could of course be a somewhat pessimistic approach to the subject. Perhaps finding happiness in others is the truly unselfish and just thing. Others would certainly say so. Hell, most of society would say so. Just take a look at mainstream media and the messages taught to us as children. If those are anything to go off of then happiness can only be found in other people. Regardless I stand with my point that only true happiness can be found within ones self by focusing on and growing onesself. A world where people invest in themselves first, finding their happniess within before turning to others to share in that happiness. An equal exchance of posititivy and good instead of an unequal give and take that inevitably comes about when you rely on others for your interal feelings. 
       To conclude things, I dont partifularly believe that there is any right or wrong way to find happiness. I do however believe that there is a bit more merit in finding happiness with yourself first before you seek happiness in others. I do believe something like this is very personal to each peson and that no one has any right to demand someone find happiness in any certain way. To each their own in that regard. No one has any right to say otherwise. 


