Materialism is something inherently found in all of us, whether we like it or not.  How we choose to deal with makes all the difference in the world.  Some will invariably choose to lean towards being very materialistic, while others will lean the opposite way towards a minimalistic lifestyle.  I prefer to situate myself right in the middle of the road, not leaning either way, but instead leaning towards a lifestyle of moderation.

Some items are necessary to purchase.  For example, electricity, water, housing, insurance, food, clothing.  We need those things on a daily basis to survive, and so we must set aside funds on a monthly basis to purchase them.  We can minimize the costs of those items by using less.  Perhaps turning up our thermostat to use less electricity.  Or turning off the water when brushing our teeth.  Or purchasing store brand food items instead of brand name to save a little money at the register.  These small tasks can help keep our costs down, which is the end goal.  Why?  Because then we'll have more money to spend on our wants.

Our wants can include vacations, a new car, a new house, a fun toy (i.e. boat, jetski, etc.).  These are things we don't need to survive and could easily live without.  But we want them anyway.  And that's okay.  As long as we keep our purchases to a minimum it is more than okay to save up for a new item that we want and splurge on it when we have enough funds saved up. 

It is when we go on shopping sprees, grabbing up everthing within our reach, that we get into trouble.  We overcharge credit cards to the point of maxxing them out.  We run up bills we'll never be able to pay off.  We take out loans that we'll never be able to pay back.  All of this results in debt, and debt is the fatal flaw in the materialistic lifestyle.  In the end, you will have all these items and nowhere to put them because you can't afford to live in your house.  You won't be able to put a meal on the table, or send your kids to school, or get yourself to your job because you can't afford to put gas in the tank.

The name of the game is moderation.  I always say "If you can't afford it, you can't have it."  It's as simple as that.  If you purchase something you can't afford you will always have debt.  Always.  I think people lose sight of the fact that money comes as quickly as it goes.  Once you have no money, it is very hard to get it back.  It'll take you years to get back to a sensible lifestyle.

I think people get caught up in the lastest fads and just have to have the latest and greatest of everything.  People get caught up in doing what's "Cool" instead of what's "reasonable".  They think "Well, everybody else has one, so I should too."  The reason people do this is because they mistakenly think that everybody cares what brand they are wearing or what store they shop at or what iPhone model they have.  They think they're this important person just because they have the latest fashions on when they walk down the street.  They become obsessed with what people think to the point of it being unhealthy.

I've learned in life that it doesn't really matter what other people think of you.  It just doesn't.  It's when you get caught up in the idea of people paying attention to you because you wear the most lavish and expensive fashions that you run into trouble.  Why?  Because you will never have enough and you will never be happy with what you do have.  You will always have to have the latest fashion, the latest shoes, the latest handbags, the latest electronics.  And you will continuously purchose those items with complete disregard to the price, running of thousands of dollars in bills.  And, even when you have all of these items, you still won't be happy.  Why?  Because money can buy a lot of things, but it can't buy happiness.

I think people forget the value of the dollar and how far it can really go if you use it wisely.  The next time you get ready to make a big purchase, ask yourself "Do I really need this item?"  I bet you that more often than not, your answer will be "No", and you'll put it back on the shelf and walk away content in your decision and in your position in life.  You'll have an extra dollar in your pocket, an extra bounce in your step, and a smile on your face.  Live life in moderation, not above your means, and you'll be the happiest.
