More times than often we can be tricked with what is called a slight of hand when it comes to advertisements. These advertisments can be seen in many different categories and take on many different stances to favor something or someone. One of the narratives would be President Donald Trump. 

Donald Trump has always been known as a business man. He's built his wealth through business, reality tv and also being known as an outspoken individual. He's known for building things up. So when he decided to run for president of the United States, people liked that about him. To have a business man as a president. People thought that things would change because instead of having a polition why not have someone who is into business to get things back on track for the economy and for the United States as a whole. 

President Donalt Trump's model has been to "Make America Great Again". But what people failed to realize is that although he is a business professional he knew nothing about politics. He had never run for any political position prior to running for President. Although this looked great in some peoples eyes because he wasn't what you'd normally expect from someone running for President. People wanted a change. They thought that this could be and would be their way out. To be able to finally have something different from a United States President. The promises that came from President Trump were to have better wages. Making America Great Again was supposed to give Americans better lives. Americans thought that they would be able to have better things because a businessman was their President. 

It didn't matter about the political party. There seemed to be a lot of mis-messaging when it came to him discussing his other opponents. There were blatent lies that came from the Republican party against democrats.  There was a lot of slander media post through social media. There was more outspoken slander from the Trump campaigne than I'd ever seen before. There also seemed to be an uptick in racial issues in America. People no longer shyed away from being discriminatory. They just said and did whatever came to mind. 

The truth is. Nothing changed for most of America. People still have the same jobs with the same pay rates. But also when covid-19 hit many people actually lost their jobs and small businesses shut down. People are still struggling to make ends meet. The lesson from this is that no matter who the polition is its all smoke and mirrors in many ways. Most politions say whatever it takes to gain a vote. Although President Donald Trump may have had intentions as a percieved business man to make things better. There were many ideas around the factt that Americas Social and economic standpoint would get better. That more jobs would be created. Things have seemed to actually get worse for many individuals and their families.

