Despite modern America's deification of individualism and the meritocracy, all humans acually are hard-wired to connect with one another and it's only in engaging with others that any one of us can find true happiness for ourselves. Study after study have shown the age-old fallacy of pulling oneself up by their own bootstraps could not be farther from the truth. Instead, we now know that it is actually giving to one another freely -- without judgment or expectation of receiving anything in return -- that is the surest path to both our individual and community fullfilment.

Since ancient Mesopotamia, and likely even long before humanity's known written history, people have evolved to live as members of stable communities. The first communities developed around our first farms in the so-called Fertile Crescent, in modern-day Iraq, with a focus on providing food and shelter for all members of the group. But as human technology rapidly advanced and our civilizations grew, our consciousness expanded beyond simply surviving and turned to the kinds of logical, mathematical, scientific, religious and creative pursuits that ultimately became the bedrock of the modern society we inhabit today. These developments have afforded enormous swaths of humanity in the developed world -- but, importantly, not those in the so-called Third World -- more time and mental resources to consider their own happiness and satisfaction. The Protestant ethos that put work at the heart of the young American society evolved just as quickly as the world itself and cemented work and individual accolades as the bedrock of a happy life. However, we now understand that this has been a regression away from the communal roots that sparked such a fast and successful expansion of our human civilization over the past 10,000 years.

In fact, studies have shown that it is actually in turning our focus outward and to those around us -- our family, our neighbors or our larger community -- that we sustain our inner peace and happiness and build a better society for all. The tired cliche about a rising tide is most apt so long as a large portion of the population realizes this principle and focuses on building boats for all. This principle of finding your own happiness in the fullfilment of others is nearly as old as our written record itself, tracing its roots back to the very beginings of both Eastern and Western philosophies and religions. As we craft our "post-modern" world, we must look back to these fundamental tenets of our history to create the future we want for all humans.
