In the United States, materialism is a by-product of capitalism. The need to constantly consume has taken over. Modern society should be criticized for being materialistic and there should be major efforts to minimize spending and devalue importance of spending money on increasing our material possessions. In this essay, I will discuss how materialism has increased due to social media, and the ways that materialism damages our society.
When we look at today's society, marketing has increased exponentially over the last 10 or more years. Social media has been a big player in this. Looking at social media, influencers are constantly peddling new things to purchase. From face creams and serums to clothing to curated Amazon lists, influencers are truly influencing us to consume more and more. It's hard to view any page on social media without seeing some form of advertisement or branded post. Social media also increases our need to show off the materialistic items we have attached ourselves to, such as home goods, toys, party items, clothing, and more. 
This is damaging to us as a society in many ways. The first is in competition. Especially when we look at social media, competition among our friends, family members, and strangers, to show the material items we have purchased for our friends and family. It may be as simple as a new outfit or an expensive new shampoo, or it could even be a new house or a house renovation. As many people say - Social media is a highlight reel. That means that we put on a fake satisfaction for those around us to see, especially surrounding the material items we purchase. People on social media love to style and share items to show off, and also show how happy the products make them. And engaging with companies and brands has become vital, too, so you will see just about everyone on social media tagging the companies from where they purchased their material items, which is encouraging followers to purchase from the same companies. This is seen both with influencers, and just with anyone who purchases from a brand that can be tagged. It is a symbol of status and a showing of how happy these products make them - whether they truly do or not, we do not know.
Another way materialism damages us is through dissatisfaction. When we see others having items that we don't have or can't have, there is jealousy and dissatisfaction within our lives, which are perfectly great lives for the most part. But we can't see the great things in our lives when we are constantly seeing others' material possessions and how they compare to our own. It is so easy to look at what other people have, and feel sorry for ourselves regarding why we may not be able to have them. And worse, when we can purchase those items, they rarely bring us the happiness we believed these material items would have.
Debt and financial issues also follow materialism. When we focus so much on valuing what we purchase and own, especially materialistic products, this is where we see major debt problems come in. This is because, as mentioned above, we may be dissatisfied with what we have, and when we don't have the finances to keep up with others, we put ourselves into debt with high interest credit cards. This can cause financial problems if we can't pay. 
Finally, material waste is an issue with materialism. When we focus so much on purchasing more and more new items, we run into a lot of waste. People will throw out items that are still perfectly good. These end up in landfills and oceans. Plastic items don't biodegrade so they end up getting into our food and leaving a huge environmental mess. 
In conclusion, we need to not only criticize modern society for being materialistic, but we also need to be conscious and come up with a solution. If we don't we are at risk for a society that values the wrong things in life. We are also at risk for a mental health crisis because of competition and dissatisfaction. We will be drowning in debt and waste if we don't criticize and condemn our modern society for being materialistic and so absolutely obsessed with material items. We will be much better off if we get rid of the desire to be materialistic.


