People are vulnerable to the outward appearance of things and persons, forming impressions about their desirability or other qualities.  Frequently upon closer inspection, these things or people do not live up to their outward appearance which can serve to disappoint, or in some cases reassure the observer that the grass really isn't greener.

Friends or neighbors can display impressions of wealth that can make us envious of their lives.  Sometimes that outward appearance can be genuine, but quite often the glamourous life can be subsidized by tremendous debt which can be causing a great deal of stress that can reach a breaking point.  Sometimes this life has to be supported by people who work long hours at the sacrifice of their family life.  Relationships can become broken and children can turn to drugs or other destructive behaviors.  When we discover things aren't quite what they seem, it can make us grateful for what we have and that we don't really envy them after all.

Very often we envy celebrities for their beauty, fame, and riches.  These outward appearances are often manufactured by hosts of makeup artists, plastic surgeons, public relations people, and a host of other professionals.  We see these people perform in movies or television and believe they are who they portray.  The real person within is frequently suffering emotionally and is a prisoner of their fame in that they can't go about their life normally like most of us do.  It wouldn't at all be surprising that many of them envy those of us who are just everyday people.

Physical objects can also present a beautiful exterior which can mask poor quality within.  Often some of the most expensive cars look beautiful and offer many amenities, but can be extremely expensive to maintain or repair.  Many times the long term reliability o these cars is poor.  Designer bags or shoes can be objects of desire, but shoes and bags from ordinary retailers serve their purpose just as well.

Without doubt there is always someone more attractive, richer, more popular, smarter, and so on than we are.  When we are looking outward and comparing others to ourselves, we can become despondent and self-critical.  Expensive consumer products lure us with their appeal to help identify with the rich and amous.  We have to learn to be grateful for what we have, because there are so many in the world who would be grateful to trade places with us and live the lives we do.  As the saying goes, the grass is not greener on the other side of the fence, and all that glitters is not gold.
