I feel that happiness comes from focusing on one's personal goals.  I believe this because when someone achieves their goals, they feel fulfilled and can look back and say that they accomplished what they set out to do.  Doing this gives them purpose and meaning in life.  It also makes them a more productive member in society.
When people focus on the happiness of others, they may feel jealous or angry that others are getting the rewards they deserve.  As human beings, we are naturally selfish and flawed.  Unfortunately, it is a challenge to live one's life completely selfless without feeling resentment.  However, this doesn't mean one has to live a totally selfish life either.  One can live a morally good life focusing on one's goals while still helping others.
Here is an example of what I mean.  When I was younger, I did a little prowrestling on the independent circuit.  The object of prowrestling is to choreograph fighting to entertain the audience.  The winners and losers are predetermined, but the people in the main events make more money.  When I started wrestling, I was following my goal, which made me happy.  I listened to the people who wrestled longer than me and learned what to do and not do in the ring.  I also learned from the advice I was given in terms of how to carry myself outside of the ring.  This advice helped me to become more and more successful over a period of time.  After I wrestled for a little bit and moved up to the main event, I was then very willing and able to return the favor and help the younger guys who were just starting by giving them the same advice I had been given.  Therefore, I was able to help them achieve success as well.
To sum everything up, I would remind people that they only live once.  It's most important to do what's right.  However, one should focus on their own goals in order to be happy as well.  Being happy doesn't mean being selfish.  It just means making the most out of what someone was given in life so they can be the best in their chosen field.
