In our modern society, it is true that materialism has seemingly enveloped the lives of a large majority of our population. But in doing so, a lot of people are missing out on arguably one of the most fulfilling, and joyful delights, of our human experience. Personal connections.  

Human beings by nature, are social beings. We bounce energy off of one another, and basque in the vibrations of our friends and family. Imagine going through life and never having felt strong emotions towards any other human being. How empty that existence would be? Personal connections are key to experiencing fulfillment and happiness. Our brains are bombarded with dopamine when we see someone we love. Our brains are bombarded with dopamine when we are laughing and having fun in the moment and truly "living" our lives. 

All of the best memories I have been able to gleam, have always involved one or more other people. Take a moment and think about the best memories that you have. I would bet the bank that those memories that you have, involve one or more people as well. Granted, there is bound to be outliers. I am sure I have some really good memories while I was alone. But the best memories that any person has, will not be focused around material things. Material things might bring happiness in the moment, but the really good experiences, the ones that linger in your mind ad infinitum, are the experiences shared with other people. And at the end of the day, you can't bring any of the "stuff" you have acquired with you. It's just stuff. Although some people may argue that in today's modern society, people must be materialistic just to feel accepted socially. That one must be materialistic to be able to HAVE those lasting experiences, that linger around in the mind like a honeysuckle in the wind on a warm spring day. 

Our modern society has become entirely dependent on technology and other material things. We are constantly shown adverts that suggest we purchase the next best thing. Having some of those things can actually facilitate some connections with other people. Some technologies and other materalistic items, can actually bring some people happiness and fulfillment. So maybe we should give in to modern materialism and enjoy the things that technology has granted us access too. Maybe that's all we need in our modern technocratic world? 

But not so fast. Materialism doesn't bring anyone happiness. It's akin to a mirage in the desert. It seems like we are able to "buy" happiness, and "buy" fulfillment, but in reality, materialism will just leave us feeling an empty pit, a formless void that we can't quite seem to fill. We only experience true fulfillment when we make those connections and share those lasting experiences, with other people. Other people are truly what counts. So the next time you feel like you have to go out and buy the next best thing, remember that materialism is just a veil hiding what truly matters. Go enjoy time spent with a friend or family member. Make some lasting memories. In the end, it will be far more worth it. 
