As we go throughout our day we are continuously bombarded with images. Going to work or school in the morning we see billboards and storefronts advertising products. Hoping on the internet or the phone to check the latest news, we come accross many images, all trying to sell us something or create an impression that is pre-determined, until we get to the content we were searching to find. Is too much advertising and image saturation a good thing in our society or does it have a negative impact on how we percieve things and interact with others? 

Advertising and people using images to manipulate people's impressions and influence them to buy a product or trust them with their services have been around for years and it will never go away. As consumers, we need to be vigilant and critical of the information we see and process and recognize that not all things we see are 100% factual and instead recognize the creativity and art that people use and the message they are trying to convey and use that to our advantage when making decisions. Some advertisement are funny, some make you think about things on a deeper level, some are informative, some are lies. By recognizing that one should never take something at face value, people should instead use these opportunities to appreciate the message and use it as an opportunity to strengthen their critical reasoning skills.

Some may argue that advertising, image manipulation and influencing can have a negative effect on people. It can lead people to buy products they don't need, trust people they shouldn't or invest time or other resources into something that will not deliver the results it promised. My response to that would be that people need to develop a strong sense of being critical to the information they see. If you read an advertisement guarenteeing something, prior to purchasing it, someone should have the sense to seek out others that have tried the product and see if it delivered the results it promised. Read reviews, ask for testimonials, seek information that either justifies the claims or refutes it. If this information does not exist, then decide to try it in a limited fashion, ask for a trial or a sample- proceed cautioulsly. Creating this vigilance on something as small as a candy bar or skin cream will be good practice for bigger decisions such as choosing a Doctor, believing a news story or trusting a politician with your vote. 

If people know and recognizee that they are constantly trying to be manipulated and influenced and they exercise reasonable caution, folks can instead appreciate the images that they see for what they are- people's attempt to persuade. There are going to be times when you will need to persuade and seeing the ways that people do this (both good and bad) will give you a good resource to draw from. Enjoy what is around you and use from it what you can.
