Materialism in Modern Society

How do people develop cultures and communities?  Do they live just to be alive getting by day to day, or do they live to become successful, comfortable and a productive member of society?  Certain attributes to society are necessary for succes, such as acquiring housing, clothing, transportation, food, tools and equipement.  There are other attributes to society that demonstrate status and confer comfort, such as the acquisition of material things.  

Materialism is a byproduct of modern society and demonstrates our ability to stratify status amongst each other.  It can occur as a result of excess wealth of some people, and as a result of beneficience of elders to the younger generation.  However, materialism is one of the realities of current society.  It can mock those of lesser means and can cause strife in some who are less productive when they see others so rich with goods.

For example, a person who has cornered the market for necessary goods and is able to reap a profit from their business may drive a fancy car, may live in a mansion much to big for their needs and may wear the best clothing.  The wealthier person has made their life very comfortable as a result of their productivity.  This could be seen by a less productive and less prosperous member of society as greed, negligence and lack of compassion for those less fortunate.  

One could argue that everyone has an equal opportunity to succeed and become wealthy.  When one is born into a wealthy family, it certainly makes things easier if the wealth of the family is shared.  Sometimes it is not shared and the person must figure out on their own how to succeed.  This can be accomplished by viewing examples from the surrounding community.  It can also be accomplished by those of lesser means in a similar fashion.  One must set their mind to becoming successful and finding all the proper ways to do that.  A successful modern society would have resources available to assist those of lesser means to becomed successful.

While materialism of others may be uncomfortable for some to witness while they themselves are lacking, one's mindset may allow them to overcome their strife and grief.  Rather than focusing on what others have acuired which they do not have, assuming that there is a "flaw in the system," they can start to work toward the goals needed to achieve success.  This may include research, education, use of available community resouces and determination to succeed.  A successful modern society may include materialism as long as there is a focus on opportunities for all. 
