Throughout the course of humanity people have strived to achieve goals and have success. They've done this through many means however the main two avenues for achieving success is through cooperation, competition, and a mixture of the both. However today's work world of always maximazing productivity there is a belief that competition is the way to go but those people are wrong, it's cooperation that brings more success and not competition. 

As humans we have been working together since the days of Neanderthals. In fact it wasn't for our species being a social species and working together then we wouldn't be where we are today. The nomadic tribes of the ancient days only survived by participating with each other in hunter-gatherer societies where tasks were divvied up, which is peak cooperation with the goal being survival. Furthermore as societies progressed to settling down and being more stationary, farming based villages, etc, it was also due to cooperation as everything was based on survival and progress. In fact if we fast foward hundreds of thousands of years to modern times, the way that modern western society thinks was heavily influenced by the period known as The Enlightenment which included such things as The Renaissance.  The Renaissance was an important time period for western development in philosphy, art, architecture and so on, and while there was competition between different regions such as North Italy and Southern, the respective groups studied and cooperated with each other, mentored their peers and engaged in dialogue. That's cooperation.

Now sure, we can look at periods in time such as war which in many societies is where major technological develpments are made as cities and nations competed against each other. Such technological developments that would eventually help modern society. But even then the other reason those developments were made was due to the fact that the cities or nations were cooperating within themselves to defeat the enemy, working together is what led to those accomplishments. An example being that the people of the United States didn't work together, women going above and beyond their positions in society at that time to fill in the work positions that were previously occupied by men, such becoming factories workers, the United States war industry wouldn't have been as effective as it was. An even better example would be chattel slavery, which is in one of the darkest periods of modern times, a peroid of just out brutality and suffering for the individuals that were effected by it that were mainly African but also included native in the North American colonies, Carriebean, and Central & South America. With everything that happened to those that suffered including having their cultures destroyed and mixed with people they didn't know nor could understand, they perservered through the struggles by adapting and communicating through things like dance and other things that could help the cultures relate to each other, and began to be able to put themselves in situations to where they would be able to fight back like in the case of Haiti, or escape like in the case of the Underground Railroad. That's cooperation, that's humanity.

Overall the goal to success is to work together with each other. That has been proven throughout human history, in our darkest of times and in our brighteest and thus is our best way forward to achive success for a potential golden age.

