All around us things are mistakingly advertised; whether it be the way food looks on packages or in commercials, or the way people are portrayed when it comes to advertisements and reality TV shows. How often is it that we, as a society, are misconcieved about the way things really are? Everyday. Commercials for food and places are always showing the best footage and the way public figures and entertainers are portrayed in media is a gross exageration of what goes on in their regular life. This commonly leads to the misconception that things are not what they really seem. 

Just recently I was watching a informational video about how different food commercials are filmed. 
More often than not, the food being used in the videos of resturants and various companies is not actually food at all. Mashed potatoes will be used to create the look of perfect ice cream scoops, chicken will be painted or seared to get those perfect burn marks. Ice cubes are made of silicone, and most drinks are made of a different liquid concotion to get the perfect appearance of layered latte or alcoholic drinks. No wonder we, as a society, get disspointed after viewing a TV commercial. Have you ever watched a commercial for a resturant and thought to yourself "wow, that looks amazing" but then got the same exact dish at the same exact resturant the commercial was filmed for and it looks nothing like it? We become obsessed with what we see and it often leads to dissapointment when it comes to the real thing. 

Another area where we are commonly obsessed with the appearance or 'sound' of a person vs their actual abilities is in political ads. Nowadays, political ads are most commonly used to attack their opponent rather then focus on the individuals actual abilities and what they would bring to the table. The last election was a war Trump vs Biden, where everyone just became obsessed with democrat vs republican, blue vs red, what side was going to win versus actually being concerned about what each candidate could bring to the table and how they would help out country. These political ads used to attack their opponents oftentimes leave lasting impressions on people about who to hate or like more, rather then taking into account each individuals abilities and what they want for our country. 

Reality TV shows are another big issue. People become obsessed with reality TV shows, thinking that people actually have lives like what is portrayed on our TV. But the people behind the show are always stressing, and in some cases, creating the drama that occurs on the show. They are actors paid to be dramatic, paid to have issues that would be entertaining to its viewers. If reality TV was actually that, "reality TV" then their daily lives would be more or less similar to the standard person watching the show. Yet people see these TV shows and wish their life was more or less like the people on TV, giving them a false impression of what to achieve in life because in reality, life will never be like that. 

In conclusion, we as a society we are to impresionable by what the media and entertainers try to push onto us. We become sucked into this world where things are never going to be as they seem, led to constant dissapointment. We need to not let the media have that much of an influence on our impressions of things, or better yet the media needs to stop falsifying the things they portray, so we can have a better sense of our life and how things are truly going to be. 
