No, we shouldn't be criticized for being materialistic. We shouldn't be criticised for buying and consuming things. We are materialistic because we desire to be wanted. We desire being wanted by society and ultimately, a mate. Which brings us safety. It bring us the ability to spread our genes. It bring us the ability to help us survive. It bring us the ability to help our species survive. 

All of this, the need for survival leading to the need for materialism, is part of our DNA. It's ingrained in us from the outset of our species in orde to survive and advance. We want comfort, we want to stand out. Standing out can attract mates.  All of these are essential to the procreation, survival, and thriving of our species. It is because of this that being materialistic is acceptable and a desired trait. It once had it's place in survival of our species and now it seems extreme but understanding it's origins are helpful. It's not to be criticized, it should be embraced and even celebrated. Celebrated like physical and mental health are. This is healthy for us and we should concentrate on ways to make it better.

Now, how did our drive for items to help our survival lead us to this place? Well, we have been marketed to and driven towards the areas tht we now seek items. Materialism like wanting nice cars and clothes are just a product of our desires to be accepted and wanted coupled with the way we have been marketed to inorder to achieve "being wanted." 

Look at any mass marketed media source. What we see is individuals with "nice" material objects semingly "on top of the world." They have desirable partners, they have healthy lives, they have basically everything we "want" to help us be the greatest beings we can be.  Seeing all of those "perfect" people makes us want that life too. And we see the material items as a step to reach that goal.

You see, materialism isn't bad. It's ineviatable. Our DNA is about drivin us to be the best and help the species survive. Through that we want the best possible life to help survival. Having nice material items is what we see as the process to make that happen. We have been lead by our DNA, our brains, to seek comfort or safety in items. What those items are can be manipulated and hat we see now is the product of how we've been marketed to. So maybe instead of "loving to hate" materialism we should instead be hating that we love it.
