All too often unrealistic expectations are being crammed down our throats. From the plastic celebrities with photoshopped bodies that hide every imperfection to advertisements that seemingly seek to deceive the normal person into buying a product that looks at best half as good as the ad does. In this digital age we have to be able to discern if something is as good as advertised or if we're being sold a lie. 

The best way to avoid lies and what is borderline false advertisement is to do research. We can't simply rely on what is being presented because it's literally people's jobs to make products and entertainers look as good as possible, whether the product or entertainer's value is actually that high. For instance, not long ago I bought a bluetooth speaker because it looked appealing. The ad even showed this speaker being submerged in water and claiming it was waterproof. I bought it, took a shower with it literally one time and it broke. Just one use and it was broken. One hundred dollars instantly down the drain. I went back to the site I bought it from and every single one star review said the same thing, "don't believe the waterproof claim". I wish I would have researched the reviews before I believed an ad that literally showed me the speaker playing in water. I was livid and confused. How could they show that and know that it's likely to never work again? It angered me to no end.

I know some people will say, but that's their job. They're supposed to make you want something and it's true they are. However we as consumers have to get better at not believing packaging and advertisements. No matter how good an image looks, we need to look at reviews especially if there are video or images from another consumer who can show that something does or doesn't do what the packaging or ad says. Once we can get to that point we will no longer be lining the pockets of ad specialists and people after our money, but instead we can take control of calling out those who intentionally deceive and start to support those whose claims are actually legit.
