There is no circumstance where someone can achieve success by just being competitive. Even if you look at independently successful people, they generally have teams of people behind them helping. 

For example, lets focus in on the greatest Olympian of the 21st Century, Michael Phelps. He won something like 17 gold medals. Of course, he has to be an incredibly competitive guy, and I'm sure that he is incredibly competitive. I'm also sure that that competitiveness gives him an edge. But firstly, his parents fostered his talent. They gave him the resources that he needed to suceed and follow his dream. He's had Coaches, and mentors, and fellow swimmers who have both raised him up and helped him be better and to accomplish his goals. So, while he was incredibly competitive, the team is the reason he succeeded and was allowed to be competitive. 

In the common workplace, I believe that this is the same. There are times where competition is incredibly healthy and productive. However, even in the most independent jobs, at the top, there are bosses, and managers and even supplies and technology that is provided that encourages the success. In essence, the team and cooperation at the bottom, increases the likelihood of sucess. 

Or let's think about, perhaps one of the greatest perceived sucessess in US history - the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation by Abraham Lincoln. So, are we to belive that Lincoln achieved this victory, all by himself? Well, if someone does they are not only ignorant, but wrong. There was a whole independent movement behind this victory. Slaves who ran the Underground Railroad, other people who worked to make this happen. In fact, as one incredibly smart person in a college speech class of mine said "Abraham Lincoln didn't free the slaves. They freed themselves." It might go against popular history, but the truth is, this was a cooperative, group, team effort, not an individual one. 

There are many instances, where there's a popular sport figure, or celebrity, or even CEO's who have been successful, but I think that the moral of the story is that these successes are rarely what they seem. The idea of success is born of competitiveness, but the success itself, that is always, and has always been a team, and a cooperative reality. 


