I am quite sure people have much more success when cooperating. The old saying two heads are better then one has a lot of truth behind it. When you have more then one person working on something they have two or more sources of knowledge and experence to contribute to the task. Companies, institutions and society in general run on cooperation for the most part, much more then competition. If competition was the main driving source of progress we would focus more on individualims and that would keep people for cooperating more. 

I know for sure competition has its place in society and nature in general and it has both positive and negative outcomes. Many people, companies and countries all compete with each other to produce the best products and technology and that without a doubt adds progress. Unfortunetly when competitin between groups and nations start to negatively effect the other, then problems are likely to start. The current US relationship with China is a great example. While we are not at war we are advirsaries competing to control the globe through innovation and technological development. This could eventually have disaterous consiquences for the future if they do not reconcile some if not most of their differnces and start to cooperate more (again).

Cooperation is part of who we are since man arose. It was the small tribes of less then 200 people that originally thrived, then agriculture came along and we cooperated more to produce food and feed many more people. We then build cities around these areas which obviously too much cooperation and planning. Yes, tribes, towns, cities, and nations states competed with each other for resources, sometimes outright taking them. Wars were faught over resources and land, countless have been killed and alot of that could have been avoided if human nature was a little more trusting and cooperative. We now have a global economy and less war then we have had in modern times, with one big exception. Because of this more nations cooperate on a economics, social and technoloical developments like never before. There are more engineers and scientist in the world then in all of history. A large portion of these groups collaborate. That is why life has started to change at a dramatic pace over the last couple of centuries. Progress and change now happen much faster because of all the shared knowledge that we now possess. 

I'm sure we will always have our disagreements and even outright war in the future due to competition between groups but as the world becomes more global, cooperation will no doubt be the driving force behind our progress into the future. I personally am an optimist so I think there will be more good outcomes then bad as long as we continue to expand our cooperation through out the world and eventually space. I think we will eventually find a good balance between cooperation and healthy competiton since they both are laws of nature. 
