Materialism is one of the more controversial topics being discussed by people in modern times. This discussion is however not one that is unique to our current time period. Over the ages the people who "had" were put under scrutiny by the people who "did not" have. Is materialism really such a bad thing?
I personally find materialism to be a very beneficial pursuit for the human race. Just because someone is interested in posessing something they can be proud of, They should not find themselves scrutinized by those who are unwilling to put forth the effort to obtain such things. 
One of the main points one must consider before judging materialism, is the underlining fact that it actually has many benifits which probably make your day to day life much better. During the pursuit of material things, a person must give up time, energy, expertise and skill. Furthure more the production of useful products in order to earn money. In order to obtain the skills necessary to produce such products or service, one must first educate themselves. Without money the materialistic people would not be able to aquire any material goods. In the pursuit of aquiring as much money in as little time as possible, the people in pursuit of such material goods will ensure that the products and services being delivered are of the highest quality possible. This guarantees them an easier path to the material goods they so desperately crave. This also guarantees that you as a consumer of such goods and services will receive the best return of investment when purchasing them. This endless pursuit of material goods has ended with just about every invention you can think of. 
Do you remember when you were a little kid and your parents would not buy you that new bicycle?When you look back on that experience, would you not say that the pursuit of aquiring the bicycle was almost just as good as having it? Thats because you were working for a common purpouse. You had a goal in mind and were dead set on reaching the goal. Now consider how little motivation you have when you are not in the pursuit of something you really want. Are you going to be as willing to get up before the sunrise, put on your cold dirty work boots and go bail hay for 10 hours? I know I wouldnt if I didnt have something I was trying to obtain. The same can almost definitely be said about the local farmer down the road. If he didnt have any materialistic goals, he would simply kick his feet up and refuse to grow anymore crops. Im sure you appreciate the fresh vegetables available at your grocery store just as much as I do. Without materialism it can go almost without saying that you would need to learn how to garden and that in quite a hurry. 
I know the counter arguement is going to be "yeah, but what about the people who hord up as much money beyond what would be considered a reasonable amount?" Of course there will always be extreme outliers in any situation. However as a general whole, the gentleman down the street who owns the small grocery shop is more than likely in pursuit of some sort of material good or another. That doesnt make the man a bad person, it just means he is striving hard to work for something in order to compensate himself with something from which he will undoubtedly draw great pleasure from in the future. 
With the right amount of materialism, you will strive hard in your goal of obtaining it. You will take great pride in knowing that you really did earn the things which are now in your posession which you are so proud of. Theres nothing wrong with owning a few nice things and therefore if you trully want something, you should feel comfortable and happy about pursueing it. 
My opinion on the matter remains to be solidly engraved in the idea that materialism has been given an unfair representation by the few extreme outliers throughout history who took materialism to the extreme. For the average Joe who is just trying to afford themselves some modest luxuries, materialism can be a very life enhancing pursuit. 

