Happiness is understanding yourself and knowing what gives you joy inside. While it's possible to find happiness in helping others, true happiness occurs when you focus on your personal goals. How can you make someone else happy if you don't know that true feeling yourself? It may seem selfish, but understanding yourself, and doing the things that you love -- making progress towards your personal goals, and doing what you love, is necessary to enjoy life.

The first step is actually creating some short and long term goals. Think deeply about what puts a smile on your face. Think about what you really enjoy, and what you want to do with your life moving forward. From there you can craft goals that will keep you on track. It can be discouraging to have a long term goal, but feel that it's so far away that you'll never reach it. That is why having smaller, short term goals, or even having a sense of progression is equally as important.

By setting these goals for yourself, you will have something to look forward to. You can not only make progress towards accomplishing what you really want, but also have fun along the way. This in turn will improve your mood and allow you to find happiness in many different places. Understanding what you like, what you want, and how you will accomplish your goals are all important steps to enjoying life. 

If you only focus on other people, sure, you can find happiness by helping others, but at the end of the day when that moment has passed and the people you helped have moved forward, you will be stuck in the same position that you were in before. By neglecting your own goals, you will stunt your own growth and will be behind in life. At that point you will be on the outside looking in - looking towards others, seeing them be happy while you are left wondering if you made the right decisions thus far. 

Of course, you should help those who you care about, especially in their times of need. You don't have to completely ignore others. However, it's important to remember your own needs. You deserve happiness too. By being the best you that you can possibly be and by chasing your own happiness, you will become a bright symbol of hope that can inspire others in the process.
