Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.  I do not agree with this mentality. I will illustrate this in the upcoming paragraphs of this essay.

First, there is a woman who really is needy for attention.  She illuminates this by paying for a local magazine to give her a trophy for "Woman Entrepreneur of the year."  Her husband is proud, and posts on social media how deserving she is of this award.  She receives many likes on Facebook with comments like "I am so proud of you."  "You are the most amazing woman ever."   What did she get out of this, or learn from this other than you can buy likes if you want to?

Second, commercials do not say what they mean.  There was a commercial about frogs chirping a beer name.   Cute, but frogs do not drink beer.   What is the point of them advertising it other than a cute animal, and catchy phrase when they say the name.  It does not say anything about the beer they promote.  They only have a cute hook to reel in consumers.  I bet you can name the beer, even though you may know nothing about it.

Third, colorful packages are deceitful of what things really are.   There is a certain candy with a chic gold wrapper that makes it look delightful.  It actually tastes aweful.  People are drawn to the packaging to buy the candy, but dissapointed with what they find inside.   This is a huge metaphor for how we are as a society.  If it looks pretty on the outside it must be pleasant on the inside.  

In summary,  images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.  They buy things they don't need based on status, what other people think, what other people tell them to buy... even frogs can tell humans what to do.   This is based on insecurity and trying to fill voids with attention and possesions, but also listening intently to someone who wants to sell you something.   It is necessary to build your own self image with self-admiration, careful attention to what is really needed, and ocassionally splurging on what you really want... if you really want it.  And also, be aware of what your buy actually is.  Do this not because someone told you to get it, or society would view you as rich or popular if you did. 


