Cooperation or competition? That is the question when a group of people are sitted at a table for a meeting. And the table to solve a problem? The key word here:  the round table.

There are no corners for someone to hide behind. There are no corners for someone to use as leverage. There are no corners to gather constitutents and side behind. In fact, the roundness of the table puts everyone behind the same line. Thus rubbing elbows and visually seeing everyone on the same plane promotes cooperation. 

This physical layout furthers positive energy,  encouragement and growth. Just imagine: no conflicts, no taking sides, no one up man ship. It gets the brain juices flowing.  Everyones brain juices flowing free of criticism. It is a table side of "just throw it out there and we can all see it, evualate it, discuss it, improve it as needed and accept it" so it can help foster the solutions to the problem.

For example, think back to King Arthurs time when all the knights and powers of be gathered around the round table not just to eat, but to discuss matters of the state. In fact, some of the places that I have worked in my life saved the company (aka world) by sitting at a round table. It was easy to lean into the edge of the table when making a point. No sharp edges and no sharp comments. It was a safe place. Policy, ideas, vacation plans, all participants were able and encouraged to think more to contribute to the final decision.

I think people would agree to using a round table. Maybe those conservatives or victorian era thinkers would disagree, but they have to change. Not one person rules the table. Yes, someone should be the moderator, as chosen by the group, but everyone is welcomed and accepted to contribute to the conclusion.

Cooperation or competition? Cooperation is the glue that makes a company prosper. Its everyones input that makes the group successfully solve the problem. It is then that cooperation from the round table succeeds when pitted against the competors.


