     In a world where we are constantly being inundated with information and advertisements thanks to the interent, our cell phones, and social media, those who wish to influence our choices must fight even harder than before to grab our attention. This means that politicians who want your vote, advertisers who want you to spend money on their products, or influencers who want you to follow them and pay attention to their posts and videos must become more and more creative with how they grab your attention. At what point do the methods and promises used to get our attention outweigh the actual quality and value of what is being offered? Are we making choices based on a sparkly illusion that may make us feel good and grab our attention, but doesn't deliver on it's promises?
     These days we are constantly bombarded with advertisments and requests for our feedback. From social media ads, suveys coming to us via text or email, and a steady stream of news and opinions that may or may not be based in fact, we are continually being asked to interact with a global economy that is always at our fingertips. It can be hard to sort through all the ideas and opinions being presented to us. It makes sense that we stop trying to evaluate each option shown to us and make choices on what sounds and looks the best. However, when we do this we risk trusting a wolf in sheep's clothing. Whether it's a product that makes false claims, or a politican who presents false information, we often rely on gut instincts that are affected by the presentation of things and not their actual substance. Advertisers and politicians know this, and they use it to their advantage. 
     Some of you may be thinking that the solution is simple: To research the products, people, and information sources you are putting your trust in. However, that is easier said than done. With attention spans getting shorter and shorter, advertisments and messages we recieve contain less and less information. In addition, because we are bombarded with so many different views, opinions, and products, it would be almost impossible to sit down and do a through vetting of each and every person, organization, or product you may purchase or aling yourself with. Unless, of course, you quit your job and neglect your friends and family for days on end. 
     While it may not be possible to reaserch each and every product or person who is trying to tempt you to give them your money, time, or vote, just being aware that the packaging of these things is often designed to get a quick and positive reaction from you, regardless of the actual value of what is being presented, can help you be more discerning. 
      A good tactic is to decide what things are most important to you based on your interests and values, then selectivley research those topics that mean the most to you. Want to make sure you're voting for a candidate you truly believe in? Spend extra time and effort researching your options. Is environmental impact something that means a great deal to you? Take the time to research products that are advertised as "environmentally friendly" to see if their practices truly meet your standards. 
     You may not be able to do this with every product or person, but getting clear on your most important values can help guide you in making choices about what to research and what holds less personal risk or negative impact for you to take at face value. 


