Imagine a world where one is allowed to pursue their own goals but can only concern themselves with their own well-being. The disposition of those close in proximity are not only of disregard but also cannot be known; thus, for all intents, other people only exist as accessories to achieve one's own goals and pursuits. In such an unrealistic scenario, can happiness be achieved? If one ignores the happiness of others and pursues their own interests and dreams, can one truly be happy? The scenario provided may seem rather imaginative and suggestive to the contrary, and indeed, it is quite apparent that even in the real world in which we live, we are more likely to be happy if we aim for the happiness of others rather than focusing on one's own goals.

This is not to argue that one's own goals are insignificant or should not be attained purely for the aim of others' happiness. However, in the pursuit of one's own goals, if the focus is others' happiness, one's own happiness will naturally come to light, regardless of whether one's own goal is actually achieved. For example, consider a principal investigator (PI) leading a scientific lab filled with lab assistants and student interns. His/her goal is to publish their novel clinical research in the prestigious journal nature, which requires months of lab tests, validation, and research which involve both intense individual effort and fuitful collaboration amonst the group. Might the goal be achieved if the PI only focuses on the goal of publication rather than the happiness of those in the lab? Surely the motivation of those working with the PI would deteriorate and they would lose the drive to get things done, delaying publication and maybe resulting in false results. Instead, if the PI focused on keeping the group upbeat, discovering their individual goals so that he/she could help them achieve them along the way, and also developed individual relationships and fostered friendships amonst the group, the lab mates would become more jovial and naturally want to work in the lab, as their happiness was fostered by the PI. Their happiness naturally led to achievement of the PI's goal and his/her own happiness.

This is not to say that only leaders can find their own happiness and achieve their goals when focusing on the happiness of others. This happens in many situations - a mother focusing on the happiness of her child (and vice versa), an acquaintance meeting one for coffee after working together for some time, or even a customer at a restaurant having a conversation with a server. Considering the latter, the customer is more likely to have a good experience at the eatery if the server is happy to come to the table. Even if one party is not initially happy, it's quite likley that focusing on the others' happiness will inevitably lead to a positive outcome and thus make oneself happy, or at the very least, avoid a more dismal experience. Perhaps the most desireable, and more likely, outcome is that if all parties use the approach of focusing on others' happiness as opposed to their own, a sort of 'chain' results where happiness is garnered not from one's own direct efforts, but from the efforts of others reciprocating the aim of others' happiness. This would simply not be possible if all parties simply focused on their own goals without consideration for the disposition of others.

Of course, there are couterarguments. The most successful people, such as CEOs, tech giants, and world leaders, likely at some point in their life chose to focus on their own dreams and happiness above the happiness of others to get where they are. Yet the question remains: are they really happy? Sure they may have more money than the average person, but the old adage of money cannot bring happiness rings true, and without focus on the happiness of others, even if they made it to where they are, there is likely a loneliness that can only be resolved with the involvement of others, which would be much more probable if others were happy to be around them. In short, focusing on the happiness of others creates an aura that brings others closer to you and more likely to assist you, thus naturally fostering an environment where one's own goals are achieveable.

In summary, focusing on others' happiness will naturally result in one's own happiness, resulting in a more desireable environment where one's own goals are more likely to be achieved. No one ever achieved everything they wanted alone, so why only focus on oneself and thus, focus on being alone?
