The emotional, psychological and physical needs of most sentient beings can be well encompassed by the abstract concept of "happiness." Its definition can vary between cultures, individuals and even on a day-to-day basis for any single person. The subjective nature of its meaning aside, the pursuit of happiness is a matter just as complex and deserving of discussion. While some cultures are known to be either individualistic of collective in nature, it is the latter which is the most efficient means of pursuing happiness. When one is searching for a means to their own happiness, it is often the case that making others happy will result in personal happiness as well.

At first glance, one might consider this argument to be sentimental in nature. While that may be the case to a degree, it is more a matter of efficiency. Regardless of one's goal, it is seldom the case that making others unhappy will result in personal happiness. Even if a temporary happiness is achieved, making others unhappy can have negative consequences. 

In the making of an enemy, one opens themselves to unhappiness which they might have otherwise avoided via a more diplomatic approach. Conversely, making others happy can often be a means through which one's personal happiness is made easier and more accessible. Rather than focusing on the happiness of others for the sake of their happiness, it can be viewed as a transaction. Making others happy facilitates personal happiness in a manner far less disruptive than one in which happiness is pursued in spite of another.

This is true regardless of whether the "happiness" in question is self-serving or not. One person may wish to own a large mansion, while another may wish to own a large orphanage. The first goal theoretically benefits fewer people than the second. However, both goals are achieved most easily by making others happy. Befriending and assisting the success of a landowner, for example, could ultimately result in a better deal on the land for either the mansion or orphanage endeavors. 

A residential community will be more receptive to the disruptive construction of a large mansion, or of a loud and busy orphanage, if the individual at the center of the matter is well-known and liked. Perception of individual character has rewards outside of the actual knowledge that one is doing a good deed. The trope of a finger-tenting, miserly tycoon exists for a reason. However, who doesn't love a philanthropic millionaire? One of the two is far less likely to be criticized for the construction of a large and obstructive mansion than the other. 

It is, of course, an admirable thing to be somebody that derives happiness from the happiness of others. Less superficially likeable is the idea that one makes others happy only to benefit themselves. However, 
