The idea that images and impressions have too much effect on people is an incorrect way of thinking.  It is very true that images and impressions significantly impact people on a daily bases and that these "tools" can be used by advertises, politicians, or hucksters to try to influence the direction, thoughts, and actions of people. But this is merely taking advantage of biology.

Humans are creatures of evolution and we've been designed to to respond and react to specific stimuli for evolutionary reasons.  Our natural reaction to things like being around other people, dangerous images, calming influences... these are all normal, expected biological repsonses that aided in keeping us alive as we evolved.  While in some cases these things have become superseded by modern society, they are still part of our biological make up.  These reactions have evolved over many thousands of years and will remain a part of our biological make up for many, many more years to come.

Yes, advertisers and media use these things to 'hack' our emotional state and try to persuade us one way or the other. But this is no different than people trying to look their best to attract a potential romantic partner, or food smelling good, or clothing being soft.  All of these things are also biological responses and any attempt to tell restaurants that they shouldn't make their food smell good or that bed sheet manufacturers should make scratchy sheets would be laughed at. In the same way we shouldn't try to tell advertises that they can't try to make their products attractive to us or tell politicians they can't speak in a way that might sway our opinion.

Some may say that these 'hacks' are 'subliminal' and therefore unfair and becuase of this they should be restricted. However, I feel a far better response is education. Inform consumers how to be "picky" shoppers and how to be aware of ways in which advertisers might attempt to influence them.  This will make consumers better prepared to be informed, educated and savvy shoppers. If we simply outlaw a currect perceived wrong practise, new ideas and methods will be developed to get around the new laws. Educated consumers don't need new laws every few years to prevent biological 'hacking.' Instead they will see and know what advertisers are trying to do.

In our world advertises will continue to evolve and try new approaches to influnce consumers. Rather than regulators constantly running behind, playing catchup and trying to stop the next new perceived unfair advertising practise, we should educate consumers so they are prepared and able to handle not only current advertising practises, but future trends as well.  Education is the key, not new limits, laws, and rules.
