To get to know me just a little bit and to understand how my thoughts and behaviors are influenced, my work life extends for a period of 50-plus years and covers many types of job situations.

My position of cooperation v competition is that cooperation produces much more satisfying and lasting results for both the company, if a company is involved, and the individuals involved.  Cooperation produces a happier environment in which to work. If individuals, for instance, on a sales team who's goal it is to sell a new idea to a potential customer know that all input will be considered and, mostly, that everyone on the team will benefit with the same reward if the potential buyer agrees to their idea.  This is proven over and over by companies who have employees who stay with them for many years. These employees are happy in their jobs and look forward, for the most part, to going to work. They're always ready to form teams for a good outcome for both the company and themselves. 

I do know that many companies do NOT encourage cooperation; but, instead, work on the theory that a cut-throat sales force will make more money for the company. I totally disagree with that as evidenced by the automobile business where-in, time after time, a salesman goes from one dealership to another and never seems to find a 'home'. The companies make money, but the employees are not loyal in any way and, for the most part, not very happy in their day-to-day lives. 

My conclusion is that employees who are encouraged to be cooperative with each other rather than competitive makes for a thriving company and happy and loyal employees.
My thoughts on this subject come from a long-standing theory that cooperation produces more of the expected and hoped-for outcome than any amount of competitiveness. Competitiveness is good in certain areas of life. However, if you own a company and wish to grow your success, have a good reputation, and have employees who are happy and loyal, I believe that the way to achieve that is through cooperation from both leadership and staff. This will make for a company who stays in business no matter what the economy.
