   People will be more happy if they focus on the happiness of others rather than if they focus on their own personal goals.  Seeing other people's faces light up because of something that you did is a more rewarding feeling than you will get from doing anything that you could do for yourself. It is also true that when people experience joy from something other people do for them they are more willing to return the favor. So the chances of them doing something to make you happing increases. Imagine if everyone participates in this exchange how much goodness would happen in this world.
   It is important to have goals and reaching one's goals does tend to make a person happy. However this happiness is short lived because a person tends to just create a new goal that they have to work for to be happy again. It is a never ending cycle leaving the person constantly chasing happiness but never being content.  When you are busy chasing your goals you many times forget to stop and take the time to appreciate the people and things around you that might bring you happiness if you just took the time.
   When you include other's into your happiness journey you become a part of a family. A big happy family. Concentrating on self does not allow this to happen. We are meant to be a part of something bigger than ourselves. Therefore happiness is hard to come by when you are just focusing on your own personal goals. Focusing on others rather than yourself and seeing the happiness that you bring them brings you happiness. This allows your goals to change from something you are chasing to something that you are living. 
   Try it!  I'm sure that you will find that I am right. My happiness has improved tremendously since I have made a concience effort to concentrate on other's happiness rather than my own. The more you practice it the more easier it gets and before you know it you are doing it without a thought and living a happy and fullfilling life while leading by example and encouraging others to do the same.
   
