  I do thing images and impressions can be missleading. A lot of people inclusing myself from time to time will find a product to be easy on the eyes and buy that product because of it's packaging. I also do not think this will change because people need things to sell. Its can often be hard to make the right choices when comparing two products because we ted to go for what we think looks good only in our opinion. A products does not have to have flashy packaging to be a great product.
  Stores have products from brands and the same products that are off brand for more of a selection and more items to be sold. This is how they make their money. You have to be very wise when making purcheses because you could come home with an item you thought would be great and wind up with garbage. You can't blame these stores for this because this is how business works a lot of the time.
  Advertisments as well can be very missleading sometimes. The ads will leave out key product components and leave the buyer with an item that doesn't really fill their needs. Advertisments can be a great help in having a products sold in a wide number of places though. We see commercials on TV and we see these products and want to go out and buy them. I think people often spend money simply to make them feel good. You cannot deny spending money is fun.
  These things will likely not change in our lifetime. This will continue and these companies will continue to make a lot of money. Thats just how business works. The human race has needs and the everyday products we buy are needed. This is a sad case due to the recent price increases we're seeing in the U.S. right now.
  Prices are getting so much higher. This is just the time we're living in right now. Things have been like this before though. This surely will not last forever though and soon we will see prices go down again. Nowadays buying things like toiletries can really put a hole in your pocket. 
  In conclusion the things we are spending our money on aren't always wise choices. We all work very hard for our money and missleading ads and packaging will not serve us well in the long term. Prices being so high greatly impacts this as well. I believe soon we will see prices go down a little bit and going out to the store might not feel like we're going to go completely broke. 
