When I took marketing course in college I was told that the goal of marketing was to "add value" which sounds like a reasonable, even a laudible goal. However, if you unpack what this means for marketing it is really quite the opposite. You see, in the world of marketing this "added value" is really nothing. Its a facade, a lie. Its the foil wrapper on a gas station sandwich. The party in a beer commercial. The women in a luxury cologne ad. But knowing, as we do, that this value is really nothing, why do we spend our resources on marketing? Its because in so much of our lives the image is more important than the reality that exists behind it. 

The false image that exists for products is often innocuous but it speaks to a larger problem in societies inability to accept or even want to see how things actually are. The gas station sandwich may be a disapointment to the buyer but when the issue is something larger like the choice of a leader or a policy decision, the pain of the reality can be quite devastating. 

Take for example, the case of recent political leaders such as Donald Trump. Trump was often put forward as an example of an "outsider," someone outside of politics that would fight for the values of his supporters. This image was emphasized in attempts to market him as a reasonable political choice for president despite his numerous shortcomings. Trump was an outsider in that he lacked political experience but he was a significant insider in the realm of interactions with politicians and the political machine that so many had become disillusioned by. On top of that, his willingness to "fight" for values was mostly play acting itself. Tussling with members of the media or other politicians but in most cases failing to stand up for legislation or lasting actions that would benefit the values his supporters held. None of this reality mattered because the image that was sold could garner the support that the man and his actions could not.

It can be argued that the marketing or the facade is not the core issue. Its really about what the masses want to consume. If they want the show and the showman then why not provide it? The obvious answer is that those in leadership should rise above these petty expectations and meet the obligations of the positions they hold or desire to attain. It is true that these leaders cannot expect to rise to these positions when expectations are such that the imaginary is what the masses desire but this does not mean society should throw in the towel and give up. Leaders, and the institutions that support and develop them, should rise to the occasion and work to shape the expectations of the people in order to shift the desire from the imaginary.

Marketing of products is unlikely to change and move away from the pretend "added value" goal but the world of petty consumerism should not be left to overtake the important aspects of society where the true and real are paramount. In these areas, the outcomes are too consequental and, in the most dire of cases, cannot be imagined away.
