Materialism is the concept most of us hate but find ourselves at least somewhat caught up in it. As much as most of us hate to admit, we are more materialistic than we realize. Each individual may have a different way they are materialistic. For instance, take a look at your closet. How many pairs of shoes do you have? Now how many pairs of shoes do you actually wear? In fact, taking a good look at the clothes in your closet will most likely have you asking yourself exactly how many of the clothes filling your closet are actually being put to use. I know I will buy clothes one year and then the next year I will look at them and realize I no longer find that item cute. I try to make myself go through my clothing periodically and either give them to people I know that will like them or give them to a church or charity. The problem I have is that as soon as I thin out my closet, I find a great deal on some cute clothes and my closet fills up again. In fact, as I am typing this I can see at least 4 or 5 shirts I will probably never wear again. 

Of course, items we wear are not the only way people can be materialistic. It stretches into many aspects of our lives, including hobbies. Some people genuinely make use of everything they buy for their hobby. Others are the types that have to be seen buying the items or show off each item as they get it. Then the items will sit and collect dust. 

Another form of materialism I struggle with is holding onto too many momentos. I have held onto shirts from my daughters for years thinking they would definitely want them down the road. I asked them and to my surprise, none of them wanted them. I suppose just because it means something to us, we assume that it will mean something to someone else. That is not always the case and we find ourselves worrying about the wrong things. 

This may sound cliche, but getting away from material things for periods of time can be refreshing. I know when I go fishing I enjoy getting away from the noise of town and spending time with my loved one(s). However, if I don't silence my phone (for instance), I do not allow myself to enjoy spending time with my loved one(s) that go with me. I also enjoy photography and it truly calms me. However, if I am too worried about getting the photos uploaded or what everyone else is going to think of my photos or what other accessory I should have brought to make the photos even better, it is no longer calming. 

Most of us do not want to be known as materialistic. However, I am not saying that we do not need anything to make it in this world. In fact, hobbies are necessary for sanity. Hobbies require certain supplies. We all need clothes and shoes. Smart phones, as much as we would not like to need them sometimes, has become a necessity in many job and in most of our lives. Owning items we enjoy is not necessarily a bad thing. However, there is such as thing as too much.
