There is not a day that goes by that we aren't influenced by some type of media or mass message wither positive or negative. The news is constantly being shared, advertisements pop up on billboards, in our social media apps, and our tv commericals. People have started distorting their own images to share with the public just to make them more likeable in the eyes of others. This constant need for acceptance is brought on, and encouraged by the media, edited images, and the "prefect" perception they have created.  

The media plays a vital role in the way people preceive the world we live in. Too often does that role get taken advantage of. The media can manipulate situtations or images to make them fit their current story. This impossible image that advertisers or account holders create, can cause damage to many people. It puts ideas in their minds that aren't achieveable, lower thier self confidence which in turn effects their overall happiness in life. This can be about an image posted on social media or even the amount of chips you expect to get in the bag. The inital image forces you to believe you should be or get one thing and in reality you recieve something completely different. 

Society try to make use believe that these images or ideas that are created by the media provide goals for people to see. They allow the public to have aspirations and role models to look up to. These are true statements, but they aren't used in that fashion. They are used to manipulate people into believing or buying the newest trend. One image provides a snapshot of a situtaion, while in reality it portray's an entire stoy built on edits.  

Images and impressions have a place in society, they always have and they always will. They can be used in a positive or negative way to shape the world. Show the before pictures or state facts without bias and allow the public to come to their own conclusion, then you will see images used in a positibe way. Provide only edited versions of images or ideas and watch how easily the public is manipulated into believing something they should be or something they should get, when in reality, those images are fraudulant. 

