People are happier if they focus on the happiness of others although that may be counterintuitive to what most people believe.  People that focus too much on their own personal satisfaction and material goods will never know the emotions or the "fuzzy" feeling of helping others.

Some people (I am reminded of the "me generation") have had things handed to them their whole lives.  They never had to work for their belongings and don't understand how degrading it can be to not have even the basics of life.  They just muddle on through life, wondering if this is all that there is. Occasionally you see a special story about people who seemed to "have it all" but instead, gave it up, to help provide for others.  Have you ever wondered why that is?

Volunteering for a soup kitchen or a homeless mission can have a profound effect on the emotional or mental health of a person.  Buying an unknown child school supplies for donation or a gift for someone on an Angel Tree will help others even if you prefer not to contribute one on one.  Sometimes people forget its the truly little things in life that make life so wonderful.  Not only have you helped the recipient, but quiete often, you have also helped others at the same time.  Remember the example about the Angel Tree?  Imagine a child's face lighting up on Christmas morning to see he/she has a present.  Imagine the feeling of relief for that parent that was otherwise going to have to tell their child that Santa couldn't visit this year. Imagine also how the child will feel being able to actually share with youngsters their own age what they received for Christmas. You tend to definitively remember the feeling you have when you help others and see their satisfaction, their hope in mankind restored. Long after you have forgotten that moment of assistance, your recipient will still remember it, probably as a defining example of the goodness of others.

A popular slogan is "Money Can't Buy Happiness" but most people would argue that it helps.  It does, to a degree.  The ones with money can certainly help those without.  Those without always have the option to share whatever they have with someone even less fortunate.  I distinctly remember my grandparents and how frugally they lived.  They didn't have a lot of money but they had a diet healthy in fresh fruits and vegetables as well as fresh fish and wild game.  If someone in the community had less, they would share.  Everyone shared.  Nobody went hungry.  They banded together and made do with what was available.  They formed close friendships that lasted their lifetimes.  

Focusing on others for your happiness helps to make you feel more human.  In the end, we are all of the same species.  We all want our loved ones to be happy and healthy.  Each of us are the same on the inside.  Nobody wants to feel unwanted or different.  Only when we remove our concentration on ourselves can we fully understand how much better life is when we make others happy.  
