Social sciences such as anthropology, sociology and psychology tend to categorize cultures and individuals as either individualist or collectivist. This tendency can be seen in your own essay question, "Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others?" In fact, people may be most happy when they choose a path outside of this dichotomy. The happiest people choose a third way, a way of living that not only benefits them personally, but also improves the human condition overall and does not cause harm. 

A person is most content when they live without hypocrisy, ethical tension, or (if aware of it) sacrificing one's own potential. While pursuing a personal goal for happiness, an ethical person builds and maintains interpersonal connections that enhance the collective's well-being. For example, a business person chooses raw materials that are provided without causing environmental harm and without slave-like labor. This makes it more likely that the person will live without climate stress. Perhaps the absence of guilt makes them sleep better at night, which reduces their chance of developing heart disease, cancer and dementia. 

In contrast, when a person lives hypocritically, their actions ultimately harm the well-being of personal, interpersonal, and/or collective experiences. For instance, if a person is selfish about paying taxes, then the public school in their district may be more likely to have a shooting because mental health care wasn't funded. And if an employee is underpaid and can't maintain their vehicle, they might break down on the highway and cause delays for everybody else... including the boss. Also, this essay would be significantly more entertaining if I were paid a living hourly wage instead of $11.75; you would be happier if I were happier. 

In sum, humans are subject to natural law. Every action has a reaction. In order to live most happily, we need to be cognizant of how our actions toward personal goals affect our environments, which in turn shape our well-being. 
