In 1996, I was a six-year-old second grader in a dirty t-ball uniform, slumped over my position at third base. I was hot, tired, and bored. No one had made it to third base yet, which looking back was probably a good thing, as I was far more interested in pushing the dirt around with my shoes. The yelling of my team, the coach, and the crowd reached my ears, but didn't make it to my brain for several seconds. By the time I looked up, it was too late; Mandy from the Blue Team, mere yards away from me, and the ball sailing past my face to land in the dirt several paces away. Too many paces for my little legs to and back in time. Mandy rounded third and charged on to home, clinching a win for her team in the last inning.

I realized, after that game, that not only did I not like t-ball, I didn't want to play a sport; I'm just not competitive by nature. Even when I got older and became involved in horse back riding, I didn't push myself to be the best and win. I liked winning, sure, but I didn't crave it. This puts me in a catagory with a lot of other people who aren't competitive, which I personally believe to be a fine place to be. However, I would argue that competition has its place in not only sports, but in every aspect in life, including how we got to be where we are today.

Without competition, I strongly believe we would not be as advanced of a society as we currently are. Many historical figures competed against each other, whether to be the first to fly or the first to capture electricity efficiently. Granted, many people work to create and invent simply for humanity or simply because they want to, but competition has to have played a major role. Who doesn't want to be the next big thing? 

Now, you may be sitting there, saying, "What about the bad parts of competition? Like wars over land, or those who sabatoge another to gain success?" And I'll sit here and say, well, you're right. Everything has its pros and cons, with these cons sometimes having the highest stakes. For instance, if the United Kingdom didn't desire to compete with everyone it could find for having the most colonies possible, many lives would've been saved. It's contextual.

And in some cases of the creation of civilization, I believe the context of competition is a good thing, giving people the needed push to achieve far more than they may have. Unfortunately, it's a consequence of the humankind, one we must deal with. 

So, even though I'm less competitive than a bag of cotton balls, I still root for people to have good, well-placed competitive hearts. Who knows what competition might lead to next? 
