An advertisment comes before the feature video.  It is for a battery operated mop that produces steam and even can wax the floor. The device is advertised at a low $19.99 each month for a short period of  six months. After purchasing the product, on first try the product does not perform as expected. The steam doesn't cover as much surface as advertised and the wax doesn't come out smooth. This is an example of something appearing good but turns out not to be.  

Unfornately, this is not an isolated incident.  Products are over sold, politicans protrayed as saints, and entertainers as the greatest of all time but it is not the case.  Many people are tricked into believeing the lies or chose to view the world through rose colored glasses.

About six years ago, a lady in the entertainment industry wrote an article that she was a survior of an extremely abusive relationship. Her husband, who also is in the entertainment industry, ended up losing alot of contacts and his family was disturbed by it.  Many social media users bashed him and even news outlets help to spread the lady's claim against him. It took until this year, through a televised defametion court case, that the man was able to clear his name.  After the evidence was presented to the masses, did people come to believe that he was innocent and that his wife was lying.

Some may say that people are free to make thier own choices and that advertisement can not actually persaude people.  I do agree that people can make thier own choices and chose what they will take in, but I do feel that if strongly influenced, people will go along with the peer pressure.

An example of people going along with the masses is the purchasing of iPhones.  There a several different phones that work just as well as an iPhone, but iPhone is advertise as the top luxury phone and best technology.  A Google Pixel 6 has beautiful camera quality but it is not recongnized for that among the masses.  An iPhone is advertised as a phone that can be used is capable of producing movie quality videos and professional worthy photos.  Influeners usually tell thier followers that they are using an iPhone as thier recording device. iPhone boasts of large profits.

People are affected by flashy advertisments and smooth talking politicans.  That is why there is a saying that are more followers than leaders. Hopefully, through conserted efforts, people can learn to blocking out the surface and try to look into the heart of something to not be decieved into excepting things at face value.
