 I feel people are going to be more happy when thy focus on their own  personal goals.
Once you have that acomplished or at least some goals you will feel more solid and proud of yourself so that you can then go do charity work and make others happy.

To think you can be happy by focusing on the happiness soly of others and while  all along denying your personal happiness is folly.
You wont have a good understanding of yourself to be in a positon to make others happy.
I belive this is false philospy that you can be happy making other happy. .  Making others happy will not bring you happiness- where has that been proven. you may feel warm and fuzzy for a while while inside you have denied yourself you goals.


Now personal goals thru setting a goal, making the very first steps . working thru the process and finally reaching to goal is a great thing .
I rmemember my goal was to be a private pilot.
First I thought about it and how hard it would be
Would I be smart enought?
Would i be skilled enought?
So I took the first step by taken a introductory flight.
Then the second step was I began  flying lessons.
The third step was being good enough to Solo the airplane.
And finnaly, after a few year, I passed the written and flight test to become a private pilot.
This I tell you made me happier than any other thing I had done either for myself or others.


Now i dont want to downplay charity  and helping others succeed and improving humanity in the process, by inputing into thier lives.
This is very important in life
I know as I work at the food pantry for our local church
such a great feeling seeing others smile due to my work for them.
Or when I show a young person by takning them flying how exciting it is and show them the way around the airplane.

Maybee there is a happy medium- a inbetween positon where we push ahead with our goals simutanly 
while we focus on the happiness of others-- I personally have not done that
but i thnk it is possilbe for someone that is mulifacted and can multiask.

Yet all in all I first had to become who I am thru the accomplishment of goals and then
I could enjoy and experince the happiness of helping others. 
