Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others? In my own experience, I believe it depends on the person. Lets say you are a very busy person working day to day, in this case (in my own experience) I would have been focusing on myself and trying to do all the things that I wanted to do during the day and try to cram it all in before I had to go to sleep for the next day. But Lets go with the opposite someone who has free time and isnt working day to day. This, also would depend on the person and how they feel about certain things. Like say for example, things like caring about others and or just wanting to be alone for whatever reason. 

Focusing on day to day, working day in and day out. This also would just depend on the person but lets go with my own point of view for this. Some people say happiness is in others  , and some people say that happiness is in yourself. For me, and I think, alot of other people it depends upon how much time and effort and money you are willing to go through to enure said happiness. When i was working day in and day out, i was trying to not focus on other people and their problems when I was presented them. I found out that when i was really busy i had more people coming to me with problems than if i was not working or unemployed. As for the other side, when I was and actually are right now (unemployed). I am finding that most people do not come to me with their problems or wanting to help with anything. I believe that they key to finding happiness, here, is keeping yourself busy with things that you like to do as well as trying to work and make a comfortable living situation for yourself and whomever you are living with. 

Without a balance of those two things, you cannot find yourself truly happy. You will always be wanting more or less of something depending on where they find themselves in a given situation. If you have a ton of free time you are not going to be happy with yourself if you cannot afford to do and go to the place and things you want to go and want to do. Whereas, when your working too much and have no free time you are not going to have enough time to spend it on the things you want to and the places you want to go and or do. So finding a balance in your life is really what you need to do for yourself to be happy. with the balance of those two things you can focus on your and others happiness. Think of it this way, if you have a ton of free time but hardly any money to go and do stuff or go and buy stuff what is the point. Life is too short for that. If you have tons of money but not enough time to go do those things you like to do and get the things you want and or need then again there is no point. You will have a ton of money but no time what-so-ever to go and do those things and spend it on the things you want and or need. You might have a little time, but not enough to actually enjoy doing or enjoy those things you bought. You will always end up unhappy or unsatisfied with it in some way shape, or form. So finding a balance is the best thing to do in order for people to be happy with themselves their goals and as well as the happiness of others. You cannot do one without the other. You could but others will say or think you selfish, or this or that. Finding time for both is what will make you happiest, for one cannot live without the other. 

You cannot be happy without one or the other. If you were to focus on one more than the other you would be out of balance and something always happens when things are not in balance in your life. You wouldnt have enough money to focus on yourself, and let alone others. If you just focused on yourself you wouldnt have enough time to make meaningful connections with others, and help them out and vice versa. So if focusing on your own goals makes you happy, you would not have any relationships worthwhile. Focusing on others you would not have enough time to focus on yourself. 
