People will find their own true happiness by focusing their happiness on others.  Many individuals have a servants heart and by doing acts that add to the fullfillment of others it brings joy to them.  Some find this hard to understand because many people feel happiness is by their own personal growth. They may also feel judgement towards this type of individual, deeming them weak or a pushover.

However, many with a servants heart find personal growthy by focusing their energy on others.  The happiness another feels brings them a sense of inner joy that you were able to make someone's day or add to their overall joy.  There are some downsides to focusing on the happiness of others, people can see this as a weakness.  People will take advantage of a person and can abuse their giving heart.  They can also bully someone into continuing to do things for them or come to expect such acts.  For the person that finds happiness within the happiness of others they must be very cautious to protect themselves and their heart.  Relationships can be ruined and the person most likely affected is the one giving.  The one taking advantage of this person's kind heart is most likely not giving their actions a second thought.

Even though there are potential downsides, as long as the person knows their own strength and can set good boundaries they can continue to serve others in a way that brings joy.  I encourage someone who does not have a servants heart to step out of their comfort zone and try focusing on others to find happiness.  Also I believe someone with a servants heart can learn things from someone who focuses on their personal goals.  By making sure they don't lose themselves in others and ensuring they are also taking care of themselves along the journey.

People will find their own true happiness by focusing their happiness on others and in a small way contributing to good deeds in a world full of ugly.  I encourage everyone to bring love and joy to one another and help lift each other up. 
