This world is nothing more than illusion. Signs and symbols and the hallucinations of coffe-laced mornings and tv-and-drug-adled evenings are all that hold up as some semblance to the truth in the end. One might even wonder if reality itself is impossible to perceive. 

It's clear that what is "real" and what isn't is difficult to discern. The difference ultimately matters very little. Instead, it is the images and impressions that the world presents to people that have any real meaning. However, these images and impressions have severe effects on people and influence their thoughts and behaviors in a way that can sometimes be catostrophic. The influence of culture, ideology, propoganda, and all the myriad channels that transmit information on human beings is much too drastic to ignore. 

Roland Barthes was one of the first philosophers to explicitly write about the impact signs and symbols have on our perceptions of identity. In his seminal work, "Mythologies", he examines the various cultural symbols that surround and penetrate us at every moment of our lives. He shows that the perception people have about themselves as individuals but also as members of a different social groups is determined by the cultural fables that society presents to them. The images invoked by these cultural fables become reality for everyone and the language that people speak with and think in is created from their fabric. So, on a fundamental level, what people perceive as reality is entirely fiction. Then whoever is composing the narrative ultimately directs people towards what they decide reality to be. Later post-structural philosophers such as Michel Foucault and Jean Baudrillard examined the interweaving between culture and power. Foucault showed that societies have weaponized the concept of knowledge and truth to further state control over individuals. Baudrillard showed how the hyper-real nature of contemporary society leads to not only to excusing, but also to supporting, horrific events such as the Gulf War. So these images and impressions that are so central and inseparable from every aspect of human existence influences how people think and behave. Those who control these images control the world.

Now, one could argue that since there can be no way of really knowing underlying reality, that it doesn't matter how much images and impressions effect people. And they would be right in some sense. However, they miss the point that the idea of reality itself should never be forgotten. By forgetting reality and letting it "disappear", to borrow Baudrillard's terminology on the subject, the one forgets how to disent. By accepting illusion as the totality of the world, one becomes a slave to those who craft those illusions. By remembering the illusion of an underlying reality, one can escape the premade illusions offered by those in power and seek to create new narratives. By saying that these cultural images and impressions are not so effective against people is to say that people's need for freedom and autonomy is irrelevant. The fact that there is any effect at all is enough to ring alarm bells for those who care about human self-determination.

So what is there to say about a reality that does not and may never have existed? Maybe, ultunately nothing more than more illusions. However, by examining the impact images and impressions have on people's sense of identity and how it influences history, it is clear that they are causing a great loss of freedom and autonomy for everyone involved. By excusing these images as just a part of life, detractors give up on fighting for human dignity. So, while it may be difficult, it is imperative for every single person to recognize just how much these images and impresisons have influenced them and to deconstruct them into what they really mean.
