People should be criticized for being so materialistic. Materialism is the last thing we should be thinking about as a society that has so many problems. Worrying about materialism is not something that anyone should be concerned about and they won't matter in the end.

People love getting things, and they can't seem to get enough. Whether it be clothes, shoes, cars, or even food, greed has taken over America. People want more and are never happy with what they have. Unfortuntately, these things are not what makes us unique or good. They are not what makes up our personality. These things mean nothing in the big picture. 

So many people in our country struggle, and the gap between the rich and the poor is so big, that it seems unfair for people to have so much and others to have nothing and even on the brink of starvation. The bridge between the rich and the poor need to be much smaller in order for materialism to be something that should be accepted. We must focus more on what we can do for the less fortunate and to end world hunger and homelessness.

Greed is a huge problem in the United States. People want money and other materialistic things and they don't care how they get it. This has caused war, much violence, and even death amongst our own people. Materialism is like a disease that has taken over. It has oozed itself in every part of our life and we seem to become consumed with it until it eats us up in a way, with stress, guilt, greed, and other negative things.

If one were to take a break in society, not focus on materialistic gains, they may find that they are much happier. Taking a walk in nature, going to a cabin, fishing, or even camping for a weekend, can bring much more fun than materialistic things, and they don't cost anything. We put our energy onto things like this and we will be able to begin enjoying life again instead of worrying so much about what we want and how to get it.

To conclude, people believe these things bring happiness, but they are not really as happy as they think. With materialism brings stress and the want to get even more. If people just took a time out to enjoy the little things again, life would be simpler and easier for everyone.
 
Materialism should be criticized because we need to focus on more important things before worrying about the things that we want that we don't really need. Once we can put an end to other people's suffering due to money constraints, hunger, etc., then we could begin thinking about materialistic things. 

