Reality is never as good as what people's perception of reality is. Advertisements are at an all-time high when it comes to deciepting the public. Often times, the advertisement of a product has little to no relation to the product's wellness. This type of deception doesn't just happen with selling products but with every public figure we see in the media. Musicians will often pull publicity stunts for you to focus on them rather than have you naturally focus on their talent. Politicans will often pander rather than win you over naturally with their policies. It has become undeniable that people and products are trying to be percieved greater than who and what they are. 

Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. People are falling for advertising that is designed for you not to look at substance. This can cause people to not demand a higher quality product or person. They may continue to buy a certain food from the supermarket, not because it is good but rather it has nice packaging. This can cause the company to not be willing to improve their product because they are getting sales regardless. The same can be believed for public figures such as entertainers and politicans. If their PR firm prop them up to appear special then people may actually believe that rather than seeing them as an equal who is just talented or smart. 

Conversly, why should we care? We should care because our perception becomes our reality. If we want to live in a society rooted in realism then we should not accept clever advertising nor should we accept people proping themselves up to be more important than who they are. If we don't care about these things then it quality control becomes a huge risk with people and products.  

Our perception shapes our reality. It can't be ignored how much images and impressions effect people. This effectiveness should be noted and not given into no matter how difficult it may be to avoid in places such as the grocery store or public figures. People need to understand mostly everything we consume feels more important than what it really is. 




