Materialism is necessary.  Although many may shun the materialism of the modern world, few can deny the need for material items in everyday life.  This has always been the case... materialism has always been necessary but the types of materialistic items change over time.

Originally, material items included wood or logs to make houses and fires.  Weapons and tools for farming, building, or hunting.  Plants and seeds for growing or agriculture.  Other items included cloth or hides for clothing, coverings, bedding, and shelter.  As time progressed, these items changed and different things became the necessities.  Grocery stores, clothing stores, car dealerships, etc. have become a necessity for people to survive in our current society.  Air conditioning, once unheard of, then a "luxury", has now become a "standard of living" in today's standards.  This also covers the types of foods we eat, the kinds of homes we live in, and the transportation we use -- among many other things.

Some people feel as if all of these things are "materialistic" and are not necessary to our society.  Of course, we could return to days of grass huts, hunting and gathering, no travel, no modern types of jobs, and no currency.  Even in such a case, items would need to be bartered, which makes those materials the currency.  As always, some will have more than others.  The people with more would have more "materials" they can utilize to make their lives better.  This pertains to today's standards as well.  People still need shelter, food, and transportation.  To get that, people need jobs and currency/bartering power.  People may say a BMW is a luxury but a beat up pickup truck is not.  Either way, both are transportation.  Both are necessary.  Both are "materialistic" when viewed with eyes from the past when horses were the main form of transportation.  Cellphones are another contention.  People used to say they were frivolous and materialistic.  Now, one can barely get along in society without one.  There are virtually no payphones left.  Land lines are rarely found in homes anymore and, due to that, the cost to have one is higher than ever before.  Most places of business will not allow someone to use their land lines.  To make them even more necessary, some places will only accept reservations or appointments via text instead of phone calls.  Due to this, cell phones have moved out of the "nice to have" category to the "need to have" category, if someone wants to be able to function in society adequately.

As our society advances, necessities advance as well.  Often, this is considered "materialistic" by some but others more rightly feel it is progress.  Times change.  People change.  Needs change.  As things once considered "just material items' become mainstream, those items also change from luxury to necessary.  That doesn't make society materialistic.  It makes it a product of progression.
