I am obsessed with something called Swedish Death Cleaning that I learned about recently.   No, thankfully I currently am not on my death bed, but I am in my late fifties and need to think about all my "stuff" and its ultimate disposition upon my demise.    I've accumulated too much "stuff"!!!   I feel like a victim of society for making me feel like I needed all this "stuff" all these years.  Modern society should be critizized for being way too materialistic.  Materialism is not the key to happiness and it is a waste of energy and resources.

The Minilimism movement these past few years is a case in point to highlight the problem with materialism.  I have read several books about letting go of "clutter".  The Internet is filled with helpful videos.  Have you ever seen those shows about extreme hoarders by the way?!  We all have way too much darn stuff.   I do not need the rollerblades I used once.  I do not need every CD of music from the 1980s.   I do not need to buy every new bestseller book coming out.  I presume you the reader does not need all these trappings of modern society either.

People have been working longer and harder to make money to buy crap to impress people that they don't even like.  I know I have been guilty of that.  It is time to make our lives easier.  I am not saying everyone needs to live in a Tiny House or anything, but we all need to reconsider how much stuff and things we really do need.

On second thought, maybe all should consider living in a Tiny House!  It uses less energy to heat and cool and forces one to furnish it with stuff one trully loves and/or needs... Smaller house, means smaller closets... I am not impressed by all your name-brand clothes people!  Not to go on a tangent, but please indulge me a moment here--the fashion industry is awful.  The industry takes advantage or poor people and children, all for your fancy shirt or jeans.... We are being encouraged to buy new clothes all the time.  I repair and maintain my old clothes.  A tear here, a fallen button there is no excuse to toss an otherwise wearable item.

Things like Instagram, Facebook, and the whole role of Influencers don't help either!  We are constantly bombarded with images of things we supposedly "need" for a good life.  My suggestion is turn these things off if you find your wallet shrinking and your storage areas bursting.  Get outside and enjoy the Earth--before we all destroy it with materialism!

Did I say storage areas bursting?  I sure did! The industry is booming.  People have outgrown their closets, garages, attics, basements, and outside sheds.  What a waste of real estate, money, and time.  In so many cases people forget to pay the storage fees and the items are auctioned off.  There are reality shows about this phenomenon too.

My answer to the matrialism problem is to live smaller and simpler.  Consider minilmism.  Consider a smaller home. Consider how often you will use the item.  Consider the impact on the environment.

When I die one day, I hope my purging of excess stuff with my aforementioned Swedish Death cleaning pays off for my family and friends as they spend less time having to go through my stuff and hopefully more time cherishing my memory--and not cherishing my "stuff".







