Happiness is an interesting subject. Until the 1990's most psychology reasearch was based in avoiding negative outcomes rather that investigating what brings us joy. Slowly, happiness research has been introduced into our society over the years. Happiness reseachers have set out to see what makes us happy and why so we can replicate those things and live healthier, more fulfilling lives. A good deal of this research indicates that personal accomplishment is the key to our happiness.

When you think about it, it makes a lot of sense that accomplishment makes us happy. Finshing a task gives us a hit of dopamine and as we know dopamine creates good feelings when released in our bodies. Think back to a time when you set a goal for yourself. For example, say you set a goal to run a 5k. First you have to develop a training plan and then you have to figure out how to implement that plan successfully. If you stick to your plan and you put in all the hours and hard work it takes to develop your running skills then you end up being able to complete the 5k and you may even surprise yourself with a great time. Crossing the finish line means way more to you because you set this goal and accomplished it. You could have just randomly went for a jog and happened to run a 5k but it wouldn't give you that same sense of fulfillment. The setting and accomplishing of a defined goal is what makes you happy.

Some people believe that focusing on others happiness is what brings us happiness but that is not true. The concept seems logical at face value because when others are happy and you contribute to that you do generally feel good however, it can also come at a cost. When we focus too much on the happiness of others we can fall into a trap of people pleasing. This is when you put all your energy into ensuring the happiness of those around you which can result in the neglect of your own personal needs. Over a long period of  this behavior you may end up resentful because you feel you don't have time to do things that are imporant to you. 

Ultimately, focusing on your own personal goals and making them happen is what will make you happy. Helping others is good but not at the expense of yourself. We must all focus inward before we look outward. 
