Imagine an advertisement, all too common these days, of a desert scene with rolling sand dunes and an exotic woman in a white flowing dress. This scene continues for a few moments to dramatic background music as the woman reveals in her hands a product, a brand of perfume. While we all realize that the woman and the rolling sand dunes actually have nothing to do with the product, it is sometimes unclear what the advertiser is trying to acomplish. Many ads like this one exist that prey on human nature to try to obtain items or experiences that they relate to an image of desire. For instance, with the perfume commercial, many women viewing it may wish to look or be seen as the woman and will purchase it because of this. This is a prime example of how people place too much importance on images and impressions without understanding the facts and details of the product they are buying. These images and impressions have a tremendous effect on people that negatively impacts descicion making and logical thinking.

These tactics go beyond advertisements and can even affect how we treat other people. Humans are notorious for treating people based off of their looks or socio-economic statuses. Take for instance two people. One person is dressed in ragged clothes but is very kind and generous. The other person is well kempt and dressed in expensive clothing but is actually a negative or agressive person. People will often treat the well dressed person better simply because of how they appear. This behavior shows that humans place too much value on exterior looks rather than what is on the inside, which can often lead to chasing cruel or unjust people simply because of their looks.

Some people may argue that extravagant exterior packages are what makes the experience more memorable or desireable. For instance, food when presented in an apetizing fashion can actually make it taste better. This technique is often used in restaurants and can range anywhere from plate presentation to seating and lighting. However, even though it may make the food seem to taste better, it does not actualy enhance it's quality. For example, spam can be presented in spectacular ways and may look like real food but it would never be better than having real steak and vegetables.

To reiterate, the images and impressions that people see has a substantial impact on how people place value on certain things. People will place a higher value on products and people that they associate with wealth or beauty, often to their own detriment regardless of the facts. This behavior is negative and should be reduced for the betterment of society and for increased quality of life.
