Marterialism is trait that all of us have been guilty of exhibiting in some form or another at any given point in our lives. It's something that is a key componant that drives our economy. The question is, should a society be critisized for its materialism? I will give my opinion on this quesion and hopefully I will change the readers mind with my arguement.

It is in my opinion that a society should indeed be critisized for it's materialism if said materialism, or it's embracing of it, does harm to that society or that of other societies. For example, our need to consume and our love of things has led to an ecological disaster that can be seen in the form of sevral large trash collections in the worlds oceans. If the materialism is a detriment, it should be critisized and re-examined in order to prevent irreversable harm.

Materialism and consumerism go hand in hand. Our love of things has outweighed our love for the planet. This can be observed not only in the collection of trash in the ocean I mentioned earlier but also with the deminishing of natural resources in order to feed that materialism. The ever-dwindling of the rain forest is another example of our lust for things as a priority over the need for clean air and protection of unique animal species. Our love of things has clearly put  not only the earths well being at risk but also our own future generations at risk. Future generations may not have the luxury of breathing clean air thanks to our desire to have more stuff.

Some may point out the fact that materialism and consumerism is what drives our economy and keeps millions of people employed. While this is a valid point of view, it is also important to concider the well being of the generations to come. There exsists some comprise in which we can still function as a society while reducing the harm caused to the world in which we live. Sacrifices must be taken in order to bring balance back to the enviornment. Mother earth has made plenty of sacrifices for our happiness, shouldn't we do the same in return?

I would like to conclude that if a societies love of things is diminishing  the natural wonders given to us then a society not only should be critisized, but it should also be redirected towards a more enlightened path however many sacrifices it may need to take. If our materialism is likley to doom us, shouldn't something be said before our love of things eventually dooms us?
