I feel people will be more successful with healthy competition when compared to cooperation. While cooperation is important for certian aspects of work and life, competition is the best way to motivate people to be successful. Competition helps to bring out the best and strongest in individuals. Struggling through competition is one of the best ways to build charater and discipline. Discipline and indivual charater is the best way to develp individuals and thus help build better workers. Cooperation can be a successful method when completing tasks but often leads to one individual completing more of a task than the other. Cooperation and competition can both lead to failure, however failure in cooperation easily leads to blame and not taking ownership. When one fails in a competition, espcieally an individualistic competition the responsibility and ownership can only lie with the individual. 

Competiton has shown historcially to lead to the best developments and best outcomes for all involved. While there are some cases for negative behavior and consequences for competitive action, generally speaking, working againts another is a major motivator. One example of this would be the development of smart phone technology. There is direct competition between all major players inside of the spehere of development. If just three companies are studied: Google, Apple and Samsung, their ability to compete has lead to fantastic develpments in technology which have untimately directly benefited the consumer. While Google and Samsung often cooperate in development of producs (wearOS, Android OS, etc.) they are also direct competetors in the world of technology. When one looks at the development of smart phone technology, the biggest drive has been competition. By nature, we compare things in a competition. One only needs a quick Youtube or Google search, starting with "iPhone" to find a mulititude of examples of "iPhone X vs. Goolge Y vs. Samsung Z" where people are comparing these forms of technology. This is a direct competition and leads to the best developments of technology. In this case, when a company or product fails to directly compete, this leads to new and better developments in the technology space. As an example, for the last few years, Google(Android) has had a less than 1% market share in the smartphone market. In the last two years, Apple has started to lock down their devices and has limited their developments and introduction of new material. This direct competition has lead directly to Google gaining a 3% market share in the cell phone market. 

Another example of how competition breeds more achievment can be found in the basic economic systems of the world. Obviously, their is an view that economic systems are directed more by individuals than the system as a whole, but looking at the outcomes of economic wars and the Cold War hows how competion leads to more achievements. The United States was successful in defeating the U.S.S.R in the Cold War directly due to competition inside of industries. The space race was a direct competition between the two sides as were the proxy wars of the time. While thier was cooperation between companies/agencies in the United States the primary factor driving the success of the space race and moon landing was a competition between two super powers. The results of this competition speaks for itself, the U.S.S.R no longer exisits. This competition has also lead to world we see today with NAFTA and the Brentonwoods agreeement which has allowed smaller countires to compete on the world stage while they would have otherwise been depleted of resources and out competed.

Another example of individual competitions and failures can be found in the history of the United States, specifcally World War II. Prior to the start of World War II and during the inital ramp up, many of the United States Military Generals were fired from their leadership post. They were not being successful in their field and were demoted. These generals were held responsible for their actions and the outcomes of their actions. Their failures were not avoided and they were losing the war. As they were demoted and others came to compete in the same role, the outcome of the war begain to change. All of the Genearls known by the general public (MacArthur, Eisenhower, Marshall, Patton, etc.) were promoted once the war had started to ramp up. Their competition with their peers and an intrinsic desire to succeed directly lead to the outcome of World War II. It would be difficult to aruge that this outcome was not the prefered outcome. Had the previous Generals not been held accountable for their failures, the outcome may have been very different, and this prompt may be written in German, not English. 

Using the three examples above, it is very easy to see how competion directly impacts success and leads towards more achievemnt individualistly and as a society. While cooperation is needed inside of these examples, the ultimate motivator for success and achievment is competition. It is bread into us through millions of years of evolution. Without competition, we would not have survived and evolved successfuly. It is impossible to say where the world and our species would be without competition, however the evolutionary tract of the world would undoubitily look much different. Competition is the ultimate motivator for success. While three examples were listed above from history, the story of mankind and evolution shows that nature prefers competition over cooperation. Cooperation is used as an alternative when one cannot compete with others. No elite athlete (i.e. Lebron James, Jon Jones, etc.) would be successful without the diriving motivation of competition. Cooperation inside of elete athletics does not lead to achievment of the individual and thus cannot lead to achievment of the whole. A team, society, species is only as strong as its weakest link. Without competion, evolution does not work and does not bread the strongest and best of us. Even with the industrial revolution allowing weaker, less competitive indivudals to thrive, this is only due to the competitive nature of the makers and devleopers of the world. President Obama said "who will build the roads," when talking about taxation and governmental programs. The anwser to that rehtorical question is whoever is willing to offer a competive bid and complete the best road one can build. Not the one who cooperates with others to talk about and eventually build said road. The world functions on competition. 
