It is a question as old as man, how do we acheive happiness.  If you ask this question you will get a variety of answers.  The answers will fall into two basic camps.  One camp will say that if you establish a personal goal of being happy by accomplishing something specific, you will be happy.  The other camp says that if you focus on the good of others and work toward that you will find your happiness in the pursuit of that goal.  Let's examine the premise of the first camp.

Let's say for example my goal for personal happiness is to have a million dollars in the bank.  That will make me happy.  I work hard, I save, I scrimp, I make excellent business deals.  Finally, my goal is met, I have a million dollars in the bank.  Am I happy.  No doubt, I am happy that I have achieved my goal however, am I happy overall?  Let's imagine my wife has died of cancer and I am alone.  We did not have children because we knew having children would deplete our resources and deter us from the goal of having a million dollars in the bank.  We did not travel because we were saving money.  We did not eat out.  We did not have hobbies.  Our lives were very narrow and quite cold.  I don't think you could say aside from the fleeting feeling of happiness of meeting the goal of the magic number in the bank that I was happy, and then I would say that happiness could be defined as satisfaction versus actual happiness.

Examining the position of the second camp, happiness comes from working toward the greater good, how does that turn out?  I've made my life decisions on the basis of doing what is right in each circumstance.  For example, I make no shady deals, I recycle, I don't back-stab - therefore, I have a clear conscious.  I might just be a bit smug and arrogant about it though and I'd have to fight against that.  I try to keep an open mind.  I meet a lot of people.  I am exposed to a lot.  I'm not a spendthrift but I live comfortably within my means and provide financial support to others.  Doubtless, I am esteemed.  I suspect I would have many moments of happiness/satisfaction from seeing the good I had done as well as the bonus of enjoying myself and living fully along the way. Am I happier than a person in the first camp, well, not necessarily.

Perhaps what happiness is just boils down to your personality. Type A race horses will find their happiness in the first camp and the rest of us in the second.  The question of how to measure happiness, how to quantify it really makes judging the happiness of others or even oneself impossible.  Maybe a better description of how to acheive happiness would be life is a journey, take time to smell the flowers on the way to your destination and don't deliberately trample on them in the process.

This question of the best way to find happiness just can't be determined.  Is is quanity or quality?  Is it cumulative?  Is it the intensity of the feeling in the moment? Is it how long the feeling lasts? Is happiness even the right word?  Would satisfaction, contentment or some other term be more reasonable to use in its place?  This question will doubtless remain unresolved through the end of mankind though I suspect it is the yardstick against which most of us meaure our lives.  Perhaps in the end many of us come up wanting.
