The drive to be the best, to be number one in any activity, is witnessed early in life while kids are in elementary.  I have witnessed this many times while watching my children play sports.  And by watching the parents react.

Children are pused to be the best, specifically in sports, from a young age.  Many parents want to see their kids score the most goals or their kid's team to win the game.  Teams that rely on one or two members to score goals and lose often have discouraged players, while a winning team in the same situation often has encouraged players.  And parents on the side lines reflect the attitude.

However, when a team, either winning or losing, is encouraged to work together and each player is given a chance to do their best, the kids learn to work together, learn how to work as a unit for the betterment of the team, and have a more enjoyable time playing the game.  The kids learn positive self-talk and how to support each other.

Competiton is healthy: it pushes people to try their best, it encourages fresh ideas and innovations.  But competition that isolates people within an environment discourages individuals, breeds ill feelings, and damages a company or team in the long run.

If you watch kids and parents interact at these games, you can see a difference in attitudes.  Kids that are encouraged to do their best often have more fun during a match over kids that are pushed to be extremely competitive.  With my own kids I tell them to do their best and learn from their mistakes and losses.  As they get older, I see they are able to handle mistakes or losses without lots of discouragement.  They are building relationships and teams to support them during good and bad situations.

While watching my children playing sports or seeing competition as part of a work place, I notice a difference in how people view competition.  Environments where people  want to be the best alone are full of contemptment and negativity.  But environments where people want to be the best version of themselves and help the entire team be the best are full of positivity, encouragement, and greater success.

As an adult, I see people achieving more success through cooperation.  I also see healthier, happier people when they work together.  Competition is healthy-especially when you compete to do your best each day for yourself.
