Appearance and impression have become so prevalent in our current time. Especially when it comes to politicians, most modern politicians care a lot more about making themselves look good and the other person look bad rather than make themsleves seem competent or like leaders. If this continue's I feel like the modern world will eventually become run by idiots rather than by people with actual intellect and leadership. I think the best way to solve this is by making people running for political positions hide their politcal party belief. 

I believe this to be an effective measure because in our modern political climate people care way too much about stereotypes to the point where even the politicians themselves are starting to try to lean towards the stereotype. I feel like having somehting like this in effect will make people actuallypay attention to who they arevoting for and will stop people from not voting for someone because they "look unprofessional" or because of the party they support. Having somthing like this will not only make the people make knowledgable  votes but will also forse policticians to stop caring so much about appeareance and rather make them care about the message they are giving out, which should overall lead to better leadership. 

Some arguements that people might say against this is that having them be in a specific party makes people who don't have as much knowledge about each candidate be able to vote for someone they might generally like based on the general beliefs of the party. While I do agree to some extent, there are certanly people who don't have either the capacity to do research or the moeny to do it, I believe having this no party system in place will also force politicians to want to help out people in impoverished areas of the country by giving them more access to computers and other means to make them more aware of who they are voting for. 

In conclusion, I believe the best way to stop this idea of politicians caring more about appearence rather than the massage they are giving out is by adding some sort of rule that prevents them from telling others what party they support.  This will force them to stop caring so much about amking the other political adversary look bad and instead force them to focus on making themselves look good by actaully looking educated and competent.
