"Materialism" means devotion to aquiring material goods over other pursuits.  America is particularly materialistic, as is much of the capitalist world.  While humanity used to live in "gift economies" governed by need, we now live in "market economies" governed by selfish accumulation of capital.  There is debate as to whether materialism is a good thing or not for modern society.  I would argue that modern society is too materialistic for it's own good.

Our focus on aquiring material goods is often without a goal.  Because there is no goal, we find ourselves aquiring material goals for the sake of it.  This is detrimental to the environment and also creates individual health problems from overwork.  Examples of environmental problems include overuse of fossil fuels to produce all the plastics needed for our materialistic society.  Another example of environmental issues from materialism is ruination of our oceans and deserts from dumping so much trash.

Another reason materialism is not good for society is that it depends on enslaving third world peoples to make goods and services for first world peoples.  Our favorite brands, for example, Nike, are well known to hire African slave labor in order to meet consumer demand in first world countries.  Third world country slavery also famously occurred around the Colombian exchange, when that exchange was a route for goods to reach first world peoples from third world peoples.

Those who defend materialism often point out that humanity could continue being materialistic by adopting hyper-efficient forms of energy production such as nuclear energy.  They argue that nuclear energy can provide enough "clean" energy to be able to meet consumer demand for material goods and services.  Contrary to the insinuations of nuclear energy supporters, nuclear energy is itself wasteful and harmful to the environment.  Nuclear waste is extremely harmful to the environment and it takes a lot of CO2 to build and maintain nuclear power plants.   Additionally the nuclear power programs are inexorably tied to nuclear weapons programs.  Using nuclear energy to provide for our materialistic desires could inadvertently hasten noble efforts to disarm the world of nuclear weapons.

Those who defend materialism also say that we are not enslaving third world countries to produce material goods for first world countries, and assert that people in third world countries are experiencing increased economic prosepects.  Contrary to their assertions, the economic prospects of third world people's has actually decreased since the globalist capitalism ushered in an age of materialism starting in the late 1970s.

In conclusion, materialism is harming the environment for everyone.  It is also decreasing the the quality of life of third world peoples.  Our society could use less attention on aquiring material goods and more on human capital and human investment.  We could instead focus more on increasing community cohesion, spiritual bonds, collective happiness, interpersonal bonds, human solidarity, and collective happiness.
