Modern society should not be criticized for materialism. It is my beleif that society now should not be criticized for materialsim because of the cost of living. As the years have gone by many things have changed as far as fashion and technology. Our technology now is more advanced and it is evoliving everyday but as it evolves so does the cost of making this new technology and the cost of aquiring it. Fashion senses have also changed since the early 2000's which is another aspect to my belief.

I am an example of this, i like to have the most up to date technology that there is because i like to try new things. I work hard on a day to day basis and beleive that i should reward myself for my hard work and should not be judged for wanting to have materialistc things. There are many people who buy materialstic things to make them feel happy and they shouldnt be judged for that. It is not causing anyone harm and it also provides more econmic growth. 

Yes more economic growth, because it can create more jobs for people and more opprtunities for those who want to grow or invest in the new things that come out. This is one thing people should see when it comes to materialsim that it is something that can help the ecomony grow. It can change the ratio of unemployed people as well as homelessness. 

Materialsim does have its down as do any other forms of lifestyle. Many companies that are already producing alot and see that society keeps consuming their products may get greedy and raise the prices to these things saying that there isnt enough supply to meet demand, thus causing a rucus in the person who is used to having all this materialsitc stuff at their disposal. Apart from that it can also be a bad thing because when these companies start coming out with more modern technology, clothing, ect. people throw away what they already have to get the new things because they see others getting and feel like if they do not have what the other person has then they are not  " trendy". 

Modern society shouldnt be crticized for being materialistic as long as it doesnt affect the way people behave towards those who do not have the same views as them. Not all people are the same and shouldnt be criticized for not wanting to have materialstic things. Just because they do not want to have the fancisest clothes or most luxuriours car it doesnt mean that they are poor. Many people like myself do consider consuming and spending our energy on materialstic items but that does not mean we are cruel or judgemental to those who prefer a differnt type of lifestyle. But i feel like no matter what your preference is you will be criticized that is just how society has come to be. So i strongly beleive that everyone has their own right to be materialistic or not becuase at the end of day what truly matters is how to feel and how you react or treat people who are not like you. 




