In modern society, we have access to more and more material things. You can buy practically anything you can imagine with the click of a button, and it'll simply show up on your doorstep within days, if not mere hours. We constantly receive messaging from the media encouraging us to buy the next new gadget or must-have item. Walking around in a city, you're faced with endless advertisements for products which seem to promise a more exciting life. Materialism is so entrenched within modern life that you can be blind to its impact if you don't take a step back to critically evaluate it. 

I do believe that this excess is ultimately harmful to people. I think that in modern life, success is measured by how many physical things you own. Do you have the latest iPhone? Are you wearing new shoes? How nice is your apartment? All of these kinds of things serve as status symbols, and people seek them out in place of more meaningful accomplishments or personal developments. Social media is an integral part of many if not most people's lives, and on these platforms, people present their best selves. They broadcast how many cool or expensive things they own. They post about a new car, a new house. This furthers the cycle of people feeling like they need more and more material goods in order to be considered good enough by other's standards.

Some people might argue that materialism isn't inherently negative, or that the sheer amount of new things being manufactured is an inevitability of the modern world. Even if you do not agree that materialism itself negatively impacts people's wellbeing, the reality is that materialism goes hand-in-hand with waste. Once the newest phone or game console comes out, people are quick to shed their (perhaps still working) previous items the second that they become slightly dated. Because people always want the best new thing, this demand encourages the endless production of more and more new stuff, with the old stuff likely finding its way to a landfill. The older items are lost to the endless cycle of making more things that people will be encouraged to buy.

Materialism has negative effects on people's self-concept as well as on the Earth itself. If modern society were less focused on physical goods, I think that people would focus on more important, abstract things in life - happiness, fulfillment, and community, for example. 
