Happiness is an emotion you feel when you get something, maybe, you got the big promotion you were hoping for, got into the college of your dreams, or maybe you just got married, these moments would truly bring you joy. Now imagine this, one of your colleague gets the promotion over you, your best friend gets into your dream college but you get rejected, your friend is married with a big, happy family and you just got divorced. Would you be happy in these moments? The simple and realistic answer is no, because your own goals, wouldn't have been fulfilled, so you couldn't possibly be happy for anyone else. Infact you might even hate or despise others for having the life that you want.

In my opinion, a person, can only truly be happy when their own personal goals are fulfilled. Yes, that might sound selfish, but that's how the world works. It is completely natural to be unhappy when your personal goals aren't fulfilled because, you have been working hard for something, and you have been let down.

Moreover, aiming for something also helps provide definition and a purpose for your life, because you're not aimless, and even if you face a setback you will feel that you have something to live for, something to go on for. On the other hand, if you're aimless, it would be very easy to give up because essentially you will feel an emptiness and a void in a life, that you wouln't know how to fulfill. 

Some people, would argue that you should put others' happiness before yours, and it's selfish to focus on your goals  before the happiness of others, but they live in a bubble and fail to realise the sad, and harsh reality of this world which is that almost everyone around them, focuses on their own happiness before others, puts their own needs over other, and would be ready to stab you in the heartbeat, if it came to fulfilling their own goals.

In conculsion, a person is more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals, because we unfortunately live in a world, where everyone is doing the same, and they will be a fool not to, this doesn't mean you should run rampant and disregard other people's emotions but we must try to mantain a balance, to achieve greater happiness.
