     Has society been dumbed down? I argue that it has, because similar to children adults tend to focus on asthetics for making their decisions instead of actual information. We have become a society that likes pretty colors, people, and objects much like a toddler would. When we compare items at a grocery store, most of the time we will choose the item that is most appealing to our eyes. For example, when we see an item with bland colors on the packaging, we tend to think that the characteristics of the product will also be bland. This can actually cause people to make unhealthy choices in choosing their products.
    
     The same can also be said for our thoughts towards other people such as celebrities and politicians. People are more likely to choose a person that is good looking to listen to rather than someone who is unattractive. We tend to feel that the attractive people are smarter and more kind. Through television programming we have been conditioned to think that the ugly people are more likely to do harm to someone. We have also been conditioned to think that we should change our looks in every way possible so that we aren't considered to be ugly ourselves. This conditioning has led people to disregard important information given to them by people who aren't asthetically pleasing, and instead choosing good looking people with ugly agendas.

     As a society, we should combat this issue by being mindful of this aspect. When making decisions on which items to purchase, we need to read the information on the packaging to see which one is less harmful for us. We will probably find that our shopping cart isn't nearly as colorful, but that's ok. Also, we should think about people in the past that have made the most contributions to the world and we will realize that quite a few of these people were not what we would consider today to be good looking. We need to grow up and stop being superficial so we can make better decisions as a society. Our well being depends on it.
     
