Happiness can mean something different to everyone. However, most people can generally agree that happiness is the opposite of sadness. Feeling happy can come in many different forms and can vary from person to person, it may range from feeling content to being ecstatic. The level of happiness can be the result of many factors, including the reason for the happiness, the person feeling the happiness, outside factors impacting the happiness, and the length of time which ones feels happy.  

It would be easy to say one is more likely to be happy focusing on their own personal goals and most people might measure happiness this way. I, however, typically tend to find that people enjoy a deeper and truer happiness when they focus on the happiness of others around them before their own happiness. I, personally, am happier when I am able to assist someone else in achieving their goals leading to their happiness. I feel accomplished and more complete knowing that I derive happiness from seeing someone else experience joy or happiness. I joined a service fraternity in college with the goal of making friendships and gaining life experience through providing service to others in many forms. I was the Vice President of Service for 2 years in my chapter. Being part fo this organization brought me happiness by being able to plan and provide service opportunites to the chapter members, while being able to give this service to whatever community or campus organization the events were benefiting. 

You may say that this was actually my way of making myself happy by focusing on my own personal goals. While that argument could be made, I would state that I didn't do it to make myself happy. I did it to serve others. Gaining happiness by being able to help others was just a nice by product of my active time with the organization. I am still a somewhat active member of the service fraternity in an alumni capacity. Prior to Covid, I was an advisor to an active chapter at a local univeristy.  I was able to help these students by being a mentor and guide during their active years.  Being able to provide this service to others, and see their happiness at achieving their goals, brought me happiness.

I grew up in a household where importance was placed on being able to help others because it was the right things to do, not because you gained something from it. My parents were recipients of awards in our local community for service to others. Being able to see the good they brought to others filled me with pride and happiness, knowing that I would continue to carry on in their footsteps. To paraphrase Maya Angelou, "People may not always remember what you say or do, but they will remember how you made them feel." Seeing others happy, and being able to have a small role in them finding that happiness, is what truly makes me happy. Even if it is not always the path I imagined or planned for myself, sometimes putting other's happiness ahead of your own, is the only way to find true happiness yourself. 
