Ah materialism - The new persuit of happiness??

That is the main question as we live our lives today.  Do we need material things to make us happy?  TV and social media would lead you to belive so.  You can't scroll through Tic Tock, Facebook, or my favorite twitter without some ad jumping into your face that you are not nearly as happy as you could be without the latest or greatest ---- insert product here - Well I for one am tired of it!

I am a man of few means.  I used to make about 100k more than I do now.  I had it all.  Two new cars, nice hourse, nice clothes, great vacations, buying basically what I wanted - didn't ever save up for anything - just got it now.  Deep inside however I wasn't happy.  I put on that happy upper middle class face as I mowed the lawn on my new John Deer - as I swam in my pool - as I drove my new truck - but it all seemed I don't know, too much.

Then something remarkable happened - I became an alcoholic!  Yeah me!  Started to drink morning noon and night.  I would sneek drinks at work and at home, morning noon and night.  My motto was you can't drink all day if you don't start in the morning or its 5 oclock somewhere!  Well sure enough it all came crashing down.  My wife my kids and all my stuff came became secondary to mr booze - and I lost it all - everything 

Well I now live alone in a small apartment with credit card debt up the ass - but I am happy.  I have stopped drinking, I am building back relationships with my kids, I am enjoying my free time (which I never seemed to have before) .  I know I should not be looking at what happened as a blessing but hell - it Did , can't change it gotta live with it.  

In the end I would say be careful what you live for - are those material things eating up everything else that really should matter?  Are you streesed out to stay ahead.  Only you can change you - and you know when the best time to do it?

NOW!

So should modern society be critized for being matgerialistic?  Should it?  I would say NA!   Its impossible to get away from it - don't critisize yourself or others - change what you can, Live yor life without the shackles of material things - you will thank me for it!













































































































































































































































































































































































