The world around us is full of things that stimulate all of our senses and excite our brains. We are constantly shown advertisements of foods that look mouth watering, celebrities that seem absolutely perfect,  and songs that are extremely catchy. All of these things get stuck in our minds, but are they truly worth all of the hype? Have you ever wondered how this impacts our daily lives?

I believe that the more stimulating something is, good or bad, relates to how much we are willing to be accepting of it. We will be able to be interested and accept things, even if they are not true or meet the actual expactations. We are able to look past key flaws and defects. I believe that this is why certain celebrities and politicans seem absolutely untouchable. They are stimulating to our senses and they say and do things that are interesting, different, and shocking. This draws people in and we no longer hold them to a standard that they should be for their careers. We have recently elected multiple people into government that are not nearly as capable as other professions in the field, however they say shocking, different, and unique things that captivate people in ways that give them a following. The following is not based on their intellect or their ability. This type of control over the average person can get out of hand and lead to a lot of problems down the line for the world, in my opinion.

Some people may disagree with this and say that we need new and differing opinions. Bringing in someone that says shocking and different things is good for the public and rejuvinating. They may say we need someone who is willing to step over the line and not be a strict professional. While this may serve a purpose, this also can create chaos. For example, the election of Donald Trump to Presidential office was driven by his shock factor. It was not due to his strong ability in politics or his education in law. The public was captivated by this man that awed people with his shock worthy words and promises that he couldn't keep. This led to a massive down turn of trust in our democracy and a massive division among Americans. This impact and difficulty will continue to be seen for,  most likely, decades to come. It could even lead to even worse outcomes, such as the fall of our democracy as we know it or a revolution. All because we were captivated by the impressions that one man gave to us with no basis on his abilities. This is the type of danger that can occur. We can see this type of happening with celebrities as well. The more shocking they are, the more captivated we become, regardless of their abilities as actors.

In conclusion, I believe this overwhelming captivation by impressions given outwardly is becoming increasingly common in this world. This is probably due to the increase in technology, screen time, and news that we receive as the public. While this may feel entertaining, there may be something insidious occuring behind it all. At some point we have to wonder if this is impacting the world around us. People need to put more emphasis on abilities, rather than how interesting something or someone is or we may be forced to experience some very dangerous and scary events in the future.
