In reference to whether people are more successful when they cooperate with each other or compete with others it truly depends on the individual you are looking at. I myself, have a competitive nature, and a cooperative spirit. I compete with myself almost every day, wash the dishes faster, finish my homework faster, get my chores done faster and bettter than i did the day before. However I do support cooperation as well because there are things that i truly could not have gotten done were it not for the aid and help of my battle buddies, who, 15 years after serving together still stand by my side in a close knit family group of perople who will always push me to reach my goal, especially when i need that little extra helping hand of support.  

Now i know im supposed to be arguing for one side or the other, but i truly believe that the MOST successful people have a healthy blend of competition and cooperation, knowing when to relax one to strengthen the other when it is absolutely necessary. There is no I in Team, but if you look really hard you can find "me".  In the military, as a very slight, small framed female, I was always told "you cant do that, let one of us stong guys handle that for you." which that sentence all by itself would drive me to not only do the task, but to excell at it, making sure that anything "they" could do, i could damn well do better, than they could. but at the same time, unity and cooperation is what made every mission go out the wire a maybe and come back a success. everything from rail head to redeployment is a team effort and could not have been accomplished by any one soldier alone. Not a ONE man army but the US Army. (haha). coordination and cooperation let us conduct many missions seperately and simultaneously, allowing for a better success rate in our survival and completion of mission objectives. I can compete with men, and hold my own in a physical fitness test, but i cannot conduct tactical opperations in the ninewa provence of iraq without my teammates, my brothers who worked as hard as i did to make sure everyone who went out the wire on mission came back in the wire safe, and off mission.


in conclusion, the smart soldier knows when to nut up, when to shut up, and when to ask for help. the successful soldier has mastered the art of competing cooperatively, and will rise far, The average citizen who strives to succeed would be smart to learn how to blend a competitive nature with a coopertative spirit so that they can always come out where they need to be.

