It is not a simple answer, although I think it should be.  Unfortunately, there are many avenues I could explore about this topic, however simply put, yes, society is too materialistic in this time and age and addmittedly I too feel guilty of partaking in it.  I can porvide some detail with owne expariances and reasoning for my answer.  In a nutshell material things do drive the world for the most part, aside from obscure parts of the world that people are no exposed to concumerisim and capitalism.

"Keeping up with the Joneses," that term is well know in many circles, typically in suburban settings, I've noticed.  People close to me are very much influenced by others and trying to match on another strided ford stride.  In most instances that type of behavior driven by materialism is for the most part harmless but I've seen some people really struggle due to that mentality.  Bankrupcies, divorces and broken families have fallen victum to the uncontrolable metantallity of constantly consuming and "keeping up."

It is not healthy and many people should really take the ten thousand foot view of their own afairs and see how it affects their life.  Answer a simple question, will that thing really help me and fulfill my happiness?  Is mentality and behavior is what I want to pass on to my child?  Look to knowlege, love, community and other things that do not require monetary exchange as a source of fulfillment.  I really sometimes wish I did not live in the "civilized" part of the world and lived on some obscure island in the south pacific where money is not present.  Live the simple life where community and togetherness is all there is.  Funny how that sounds, because I think of the Polish saying I grew up with, which loosely translates, "its always better where we're not" or "the grass is not always greener on the other side."  Is this the case in this situation, I wonder, or is it something I'd need to live through to know that it is possible to live a different existance filled with virtues of life that do not require material things?

Money is a means to an end for the whole world, its the balance of what we do with is the stuggle I see.  Myself and many others can't comparmentalize the difference between the absolute need and the ego minded want.  I can't claim that this is easy to juggle but I undersend the difference between the two.   In conclusion, criticizm of beeing to materialistic is a valid on of the modern siociety.  With that said, as humans we can't help ourself and we do subcome to our urges and ego which drives the mentality.  Especially when we are being targeted by sopisticcated billion dollar companies are so good at tapping into those desires.  I do not fault people for being this way, simply this is a means to an end for most.  I know I can be a more virtous person and realize that material things are just things, they help with being happy but are not all in life, this is what I try to teach my child and I can live with that.
