Materialism: Good thing or GREAT THING! 


Materialism has been contraversial over the years. Love it like a 19th century robber-baron or Hate it like a Haight Street Hippie everybody has an opinion on 'stuff', as George Carlin used to put it. Should we indulge ourselves in it? Should we NOT have them? 

Materialism is not just optional as some may think. The material in the walls and floors of your home protect you from wind, sleet, snow or blazing heat. This is a material object. Would it be wise to throw everything material into the same bucket? I think not. Having a car enables you to get to work or the mall or to meet friends. Is having a car Materialistic? The way to rush a loved one to the hospital? Or to get quickly to virtually any location where a loved one may be in need. Stuck in the rain on the side of a highway with a flat. Telling you they might "off" themselves. First call the cops then get there with your car. The more money you have the more freedom you have. Materialism isn't an end to itself. Materialism is a gateway to experience and freedom. Freedom to travel the world if your materialistic enough. Investing long days to your goal of going to foreign lands.

But some people say it has gone to far. Materialism is pushing out caring for others and becoming a golden calf of distraction from things that matter more. I would say focusing on materialism enables you to focus on what you want. You now have the choice of focusing on the golden calf or on volunteering your time at a soup kitchen. That you would only be able to get to buy your symbol of materialism your car. 

But those are just individual choices. Materialism isn't making that person NOT think of anything but the big mansion or the hot rod in the drive way or all these adult toys attracting adult attention. It's people's choices not the materialism that determines if they use their time in a way that others might approve of. So I believe that materialism is an overall good as long as you are the kind of person that can handle that kind of responsibility. If not, maybe it's better to keep you away from the materialistic goodies/rewards life has to offer. Maybe it's best if you just stay at the level you're at. Couldn't hurt to give it a try though. At least for a while.

No money. No freedom. That's the jist of my argument. Also, with money you need to make the wise choices. That's the other point. So well managed materialism is the way to go. Hope this little ditty has been clear and interesting. Next time I hope I get the ability to go on the internet. I'm not sure what to do because I'm basically done but I know the computer doesn't like it when...oh there's the submit button..have a great day. 

