While some may argue that competition is the main driver for success the reality is that cooporation produces much greater results. Growing up in the 1980s a frequent mantra that kids were told was they needed to be number one in order to succeed and that the only real way to win at life was to win as an individual. But that much competition is actually quite toxic leading to burn out and fatigue. It results in adults that are stressed and unhappy and then to seniors who find themselves isolated and alone. In reality the best way to be successful in life is through cooperation.
Why does cooperation lead to greater success? Because when you work together with other people three things happen. First you develop strong relationships that extend well beyond the office or other work environment. Second you brainstorm better ideas and solutions, more people with differing experiences bring different viewpoints. Finally you are able to tackle and solve larger more complex problems as a group than any one individual could ever be capable of managing alone. A great example of this is a very simple one that involves competitive sports like football. In order to win a football game  you have to work as a group. You have to have trust in each others skills. You have to coordinate together to come up with a plan and you have to work together to execute it. That same concept can be applied to business or medicine or even space exploration. 
But doesn't the ability of a group still come down to the skills of the individual? Certainly to a degree. An individual still needs to have the skills and talent in order to succeed even in a group atmosphere. Frequently in a group you will still have one or two individual leaders that do carry the team to at least some degree. It is often said that a team is only as strong as its weakest member. In a sense then the individual drive to compete within the team still elevates the team. However the individual, no matter how competitive or skilled or talented, can not compete against an entire team. 
In conclusion there is an episode of The Big Bang Theory where Sheldon is determined to win a team knowledge bowl competition on his own. He creates a team of random people that he expects to just sit by queitly while he answers all the questions. When he goes up against his friends they end up being evenly matched because Sheldon is extremely smart as an individual. However he doesn't know the answer to the final question and neither do his friends. One person on Sheldon's team does know the correct answer but Sheldon refuses to listen to him, insisting that he should be able to win alone. In the end Sheldon lost because he was not willing to work as a team. Essentially the team proved to be stronger than the individual because cooporation always produces greater results.
