Images and impressions from packaging and media have enormous impact on people, but whether one can properly say this effect is too much is a difficult question. It is certainly true tv and radio advertising done well is extremely powerful. And politicians through various forms of media, but all generally derived from tv and radio, can now reach millions of people with a powerful message, all produced and choreographed to create the desired effects. The emotional impact is undoubtedly huge.
However, to say this impact on people is too much requires answer to an obvious question: Too much in compared to what? Political and military leaders have always put on grandiose displays to create awe and loyalty towards them. This staging of power has existed since ancient times. Greek city states built massive government buildings to display their power and wealth. Victorious Roman military leaders held triumphal parades through cities to awe the populace, shows which often helped to propel them to even more power and prestige. The Catholic Church took the veneration of religious observance to an entirely new level, causing beautiful churches to be built which took decades, even centuries to complete. Very often these churches were by far the largest building in the metropolitan area. Later, Napoleon put his image all over Europe during the height of his power, leaving the local populations no doubt as to who their emperor was.
In their day, these displays and appearances would have been truly impressive. But today, we stand less in awe of such displays. Yes, there are impressive buildings, but we have many such in every large city in the world.  Parades today are generally celebrations of history, crowds might gather to watch, but they can see such spectacles in movies or even videogames. A major political speech today, even when staged with patriotic displays and lighting and sound specifically designed to evoke desired emotional responses, is still subjected to immediate analysis and criticism, something which would have been unthinkable, and in many ways impossible, in the time of Napoleon.
Thus, while it is true packaging and staging of appearances is objectively more impressive and opulent and precisely choreographed today than it ever could have been before, at the same time the audiences of today are more jaded, more used to such ostentatious displays. When anyone with good computer graphics skills and a few thousand dollars worth of computer and video recording equipment can produce a video which looks and sounds every bit as good as what the largest studios can create, there is much less differentiation in the message of the most expensively produced and staged advertisements and political appearances. For everything a leader can be shown as in a video, an opposition leader can create essentially the same quality look and feel to an opposition message. A large company might have more reach and the economies of scale regarding impressive packaging and advertising, but a small competitor can today produce smaller scale targeted advertising and equally beautiful packaging which, at least in the local regions where the smaller competitor can afford to compete, will make their product appear every bit the equal of that of the largest corporation with the most expensive marketing campaign. It is this modern capability to produce equally impressively staged opposition or counter displays which suggests the effect of modern advertising and political apperances must actually be less than their historical equivalents. The Romans rarely had any competition when they put on an impressive martial or cultural display to awe the locals and the visitors. A modern organization will usually easily have its message countered by equally impressive competitor displays. If the effect on people of these images and impressions was not too much in the past, it has even less effect today.
