Images and impressions, especially in social media, effect people both consciously and subconsciously. The amount of influencing figures tjat avidly post on social media has heightened this effect drastically. In this essay, I will explore this idea. 

The use of touch-up, staging, and over posed pictures give the illusion that people in social media are living a better life than the average person. Influential people such as celebrites (both infamous and famous) that are avid social media posters often use these tactics to appear "larger than life".  This tricks the average person into believing in these ideals of the perfect body, family, house, friends, stuff, etc. and subconciously the average person is left feeling less than enough. This puts a great amount of pressure on people to appear to have it all. People are going into debt faster and living outside of their means to try to live up to the hype. 

This is very prevelant with young adults who have never known a life without social media. This larger than life picture that celebrities portray  learve these impressionable minds to strive to perfection. The brand names, hair, teeth, money, beautiful friends and products that these influencers have act as a goal post for what is considered cool or a life that most will never achieve. People like the Kardashians, for example. All of whom did not become famous for doing anything noteworthy and aren't particularly famous for the good things they are accomplishing - but more so for their looks, money, clothes, prestige in the higher class community, and the scandulous relationships. This in no way imitates the life for the average person. However, these are the images that young impressionalble minds are exposed to which by comparison their life will never be like. 

Images and impressions in the social media purposefully aid to the subconscious of those that consume it. The ideals put forth are leading our young adults into starting life already thinking they are not good enough even before they have attempted to launch into the world. Regardless of who the person truly is - a well placed camera angle, lighting, make-up and stuff will always give the impression that THIS is the real life. 

