In the modern world, we have access to an abundance of information all at once. When being constantly bombarded by this wide variety of information, how do we decide what information is to be trusted? Is the way that this information is presented the reason we trust some information more that other information? Oftentimes, in both media and the physical world, things and people are presented in a manner that makes them look much more appealing that they actually are. We as a species are vulnerable to this show, without even thinking about what may be behind the curtain. 

Public figures will create an image in society that they feel best represents the person they want people to see them as. The more positively people see you, the more money you will make. Celebrities and polititions hire public relations teams soley to control the image they portray to the public. When there is a literal profession in which your sole purpose is to make a person look better than they are, how is the public supposed to form an actual opinion? Anytime a public figure makes a mistake, groups of people rush in to cover it up and/or create a plan for the person to do something that will get all of the attention, instead of the initial problem. All of this planning has to effect the impressions people have on public figures. 

In marketing, when a product is created, the first goal is to get the product to sell. Companies try to accomplish this through advertising. The idea is to create a good impression of the product so consumers will do what they do best: consume. You never want to lead with any problems the product may have- as that will sway the consumers opinion in a negative direction. Therefore, companies will embellish all of the postives about their product. They'll create ads with the sole purpose of grabbing your attention and keeping it as long as possible. Companies try to create the most attractive packing as it's been proven that it sells better if the packaging looks better. They'll write little songs that stick in your head so you'll think about their brand in your free time. With all of this going on, you don't even have time to think about the negatives a product may have. 

In conclusion, the world around us is constantly trying to sway our opinions by putting on a show. If it looks good on the surface, most people don't think about investigating further. Images and impressions that we see to begin with absolutley change the view that we have on reality. 
