Within our society, what is imagined and simply perceieved about people have a large influence on what others think on how that specific person lives their lives. Be it through commericals, paper ads, or even just what other state about them. Most of the information is typically not even fact-checked, but is potrayed in such a manner that people are able to simply believe it. Otherall, images and impressions have a great - to a shocking extent - impact on people due to how that information is delivered and/or who delivers it. As such, people are influenced to act a certain way.

To begin, social media is a major platform that thrives on the concept of how displaying a person's life in a certain way can show how much it affects people. Online, people can take the time of craft, manipulate and manufacture a certain aspect of their lives and convince people that's truly how they live. For instance, women's bodies are plastered as thin, lacking even a ounce, and people believe that that image is the standard of beauty. As a result, young girls, impressionable and just beginning to discover their place in the word, believe that if they fall out of that image, even just a little, that they are unattractive and unwanted by anyone. Thus, there's a higher potential for them to be depressed, or even to fall into having an eating disorder. Plus, people can make it so that they only push one idea of how their lives go, without showing the harsh, difficult and upsetting events that can happening behind the scenes. This makes others believe that their lives are so much worse than the person who is posting that image.

Next, important stances in politics or other scopes of life can be influenced by the public figures speaking about it, and more often than not, it can be a breeding pool of misinformation. For instance, the idea of what more conservative Americans think Planned Parenthood does is full of false information people push as fact. They believe that the organization "kills babies" (which is strange to attribute that label to a clump of cells) and that it's just a demonstration of 'legalized murder' the country has pushed. In actuality, Planned Parenthood offers abortions for people whose pregnancy may no longer viable, that found out that the fetus has a fatal illness that will not allow them to even survive infancy, or just believe they are not capable of taking care of a child, which are all valid reasons. In addition to that, they also provide proper sex education and birth control, for free, which is helpful for developing individuals or people that just don't know about that.

In conclusion, images and impressions do have much of an effect on people. Either through how people edit the potrayals of their lives to what stances they believe in, the carefully constrcuted picture people paint can impact what people think about themselves or each other, which is why it's important to fact check information and look into it yourself through peer-reviewed sources. That way, these impressions will not be able to state things that aren't true, and people will have a better understanding on the subject at hand.
