Today, more than ever before in history people and things are often mistaken for reality. Appearances seem to be more important than who the person really is and a way a product is presented may be better than the product itself due to effective marketing.

With the popularity of social media there is often a fake persona put on display for everyone to see. A celebrity may come off as one way but actually behaves in a completely opposite way. This is dangerous because a lot of young people take what they see on social media as the truth. One example would be how young people feel the need to be perfect and flawless because of the trends they see on social media. However, a lot of celebrity pictures are edited to look perfect and they may not depict reality. This is dangerous because it has been shown to cause depression in young people when they look at celebrities social media and think that is reality and that they aren't good enough. 

We also see this false reality play out in stores around the country. People may see something they'd like to buy and they are drawn to it because of the eye catching packaging. However, when they actually use the product they may find that it isn't what they expected and they should have chosen a different products with less favorable packaging. 

People should be aware that false impressions are more relevant than ever before. People need to take the time and educate themselves before they get swept up into believable false narratives and false advertising. All it takes is a little bit of research to know what the reality is however there will always be people who don't take the time to do this. It gets more complicated when the person is running for an important role in society especially the government because people need to elect someone who can do those roles effectively. 
Are we lost as a society? Will false impressions continue to be the norm? We can only hope we can get better as a society and let truth prevail. The effects of these false narratives can potentially be catastrophic to society if it happens on a bigger scale such as voting the wrong person into a powerful position such as a presidential election.  We can only hope that future generations see through the false narratives and are aware of the false impressions given by people and products. 


