Advertising, images and perceptions are one of the forms that continue to evolve in all forms and shapes. Unfortunately at least in the United States we don't have a way to see which one of them are legitimely and which ones are misleading at best and straight up lies at worst. We have politcians and companies who constently want our attention, and want to tells how they are the "best" or they are "revolutionary". People believe everything they either see on television or on social media, which can have huge effects in our society and even our social circle. We have many examples, where we get to see from many views. But people like to get a certain impression or image, and don't want to accept others point of view of that impression or image.

One of those examples, may be "cancel culture" or more like mob mentality where we have puraterian mentalities, where if someone does something wrong, all the sudden there is no fair trials or fair judgements or we want people to be flawless. It also means you can not give your opinion freely because all the sudden you have a certain point of view or you are censored/isolated from everybody else. Of course this does not we can not hold people accountable, but we must hear everybody out and not ruin somebody's reputation or image due to how they disagree or they dislike somebody. Meaning we want to have this "ideal or impression" that is perfect and we let others influence how we should see things or how we should feel. Which means we letting images and impressions of others get to us, instead of who people truly are. From the novel "Scarlet Letter" there is a women who carries an "A" for adulter. Back in the 1600s anybody who was outside of the norm or did anything to anything to defy norms and customs that were "puraterian" were labeld and shamed by society or "cancelled". When in reality we are human being and judging people like that is hyprocritical and rediculous. Like why should we always have an ideal image of people? That is stupid and puratarian, it's stupid and makes you feel like you are this perfect model. When in reality, a lot of people today from politicians to celebraties are not perfect or infallible. We should not have the perfect image of people, because we are not perfect either.

Another example is today's culture where being different and having independent thoughts is frowned upon even if you belong into the same group (LGBT+, Gaming, Hollywood, Politics, Entertainment, Tech, and much more). Where some people need to conform to certain stereotypes and we have to stay in those stereotypes instead of being diverse. Diversity in our images and impressions is what makes every society great and this images or impressions and having to conform to a stereotypes are having too much of an effect on people.  We let what other people project, or see affect us way too much and we don't encourage independence from others. This is going to have consequences where we ae going to be afraid to express ourselves just because some figure head or politician prefer to project the entire culture into a country or side of the country rather then having an independent impression or image of others. Why do we encourage groupthink instead of independence?
We should not let other people encourage apperances over the truth, and we should stop having images or impressions that effect people based on the apprances and what they want us to think. We should encourage independence and not follow what the media, mob mentality or what we are expected to be just because we want to fit in. There should be encouragement for people to be independent and let everybody think by themselves. We should stop others from affecting us and our surroundings. Our country is going to suffer due to the fact that we listen to certain figure heads instead of what the people want. They encourage us just to conform and take the apparances instead of independence. It's wrong to impose ideas into others and what they should think.
