What drives us to continually pursue a goal? Generally, there are feelings of positivity that are involved in the aspirations and acquisition of some sort of goal, whether that be career-related, family oriented, or some sort of financial goal. We are driven by positives even in the face of many negatives at times. We often lose sleep, lose out on things we'd rather be doing, lose time with those we love, lose time on other things that are likely to grant us happiness and positive feelings in the short-term. And we do this for a reason. Because the positive feelings we know are likely to come from the hard work and sacrifices will be worth it. Because we feel we will finally be "happy" if we make others feel the same.

People often believe that they will find happiness in doing for others. That they believe if they can be of some sort of service, or if they can bring happiness to others, then they, themselves, will also share in that happiness. However, I believe that this is not the case. In my personal experience as a nurse, this was the thought process that I also held. I thought that if I made my patients and their families happy, it would somehow rub off on me and that I would find my happiness solely in the acts of helping them. But this lead to burnout quite quickly in my career. The real way to find happiness and to hold onto it more long-term is to ensure that your personal goals are being fulfilled. That you are still chasing after the things that make you, you. Then the ability to bring happiness to others is much less forced and often still fulfilling.

I finally found a balance where I could work as a nurse, helping others, and feeling content about that, but truly finding my happiness in succeeding within my personal goals. I worked hard on my off time to make sure that if I wanted to spend more time with my family, especially my kids, that that goal was being met. That I made goals as far as which books I'd like to read that month, and how often I'd like to post my artwork on social media that week, and that I stuck to those goals. By doing this, my relationships strengthened, which brought me more happiness than any day working in the hospital. And this happiness was much more obtainable and long-term, as well as easier to feel in control of compared to finding this happiness outside of my control. Also, creating artwork and increasing my following on social media while interacting with likeminded followers brought me a great deal of happiness that I had yet to experience. And again, this I had more control over than that of the happiness I received while helping others at work, or even trying to focus on the happiness of others in general.

I think that this is fairly simple when you break it down. Finding happiness while helping others is a great thing to do to an extent and I believe it should still be encouraged and sought after. But this happiness is often fleeting and very dependant on the happiness of those who we are so desperately trying to help. So if we put more of a focus on our own goals, our own happiness, and really go for it, no matter how selfish it may feel, I beleive that this is where we will find the means to a lengthier, and much easier to maintain, form of happiness. This sort of happiness is more static, more under our own control, and personally, feels quite wonderful once acheived. Life is a wonderful thing, and meant to be shared with others, but life without first putting ourselves at the forefront, is simply a life left feeling unfulfilled. 
