     I would say that most people have a personal set of goals, big or small, that they tend to look at. For some its career, others family, and maybe even a hobby. Now usually when people set goals and attain there, there is a sense of accomplishment. I think we as humans have all felt this. When we attain something we seek it brings about a moment of joy, elation, pride: happiness. We can look back on things we strove for and find examples of this very notion. Whether it is finding a new job. Nailing that perfect recipe you were working on. Even could be finally going on that trip you have been saving for and looking foward to for years. 

     There are examples though of being "happy" for others or finding happiness through other peoples work. This can usually be seen in the sense of community or family. Being close to an individual, having a sense of investment, can yield this feeling. Grandparents can find happiness in their grandchildren graduating. Parents feeling happy and proud of their kid accomplishing their own goal (riding a bike, swimming, learning to play an intrument). Friends can even feel this as well when you see a friend do something that you know means or meant alot to them. In this scenerio someone could very well have their own personal subset goal of "I  want to be a parent" or "I want to help my friends or loved ones". These notions can feed into eachother and bring about moments of happiness.

     Trying to pinpoint whether its only this or that, its really trying to cut away at the central human experience. We all have our own notions and ways that we look at our lives. Though we all show similiarities, we each have slightly different quirks, outlooks, rationality and viewpoints. This can alter on what makes people happy. From personal experience a personal goal that directly makes me happy would be like "going to see that band ive been wanting to see" or "baking a perfect sourdough bread loaf". However I can still easily find happiness from others like a friend getting a new job or my mother reaching her weight goal. 

     So at the moment there looks to be a higher driving force being personal goals being a more frequent source of happiness. However we must also measure or consider the "value" of the happiness given when occurs. Also how often this occurs. We can say a personal goal that directly pertains to us could make us exceedingly joyful or just even the baseline of content. You have situations where people around you doing their share could bring about the same amount and possibly even more frequent. 

     We also have to possibly consider age/success. Does someone do what they set out to do mostly? Has time given them enough lee-way to accomplish what they set out to do. Is all that is left are minor goals? There are instances of others as they grow older merely seeing a younger generation take pride in seeing their accomplishments as perhaps their own goals have slowed down. Not to say that these singular personal goals diminish but perhaps not as relevant or important. Maybe they are as important but less frequent even. I think that life circumstances can shift or change this outlook depending on ones individual experiences and current state in life. This is not to discount anything of what anyone goes through, negative or positive but again everyone has different experiences. 

     For the most part though it would seem that atleast for many and for a good while, personal goals are a main factor in a baseline higher happiness. Perhaps over time personal goals vs happiness of others changes as the individual changes. Maybe this particular person is so much more altruistic than others that their own happiness from goals is actually replaced by the happiness of others around/near them. Though in a way, this is still, a personal goal, just less directly so. We are all driven by things we want to do, accomplish, and attain. It is within our nature. The carrot in front of the horse, that we constantly find things to keep us pushing foward, seek out. When we finally get that proverbial carrot, we get that happiness, to varying degrees. What comes next is "do we find another carrot?". Yes.Yes we do. That last "carrot" was so delicious that we would very much like another one, to have that experience again and again and again...
