Pursuing personal happiness is one of the most common things individuals invest themselves in.  COuntless hours and energies are spent on "being happy," or attempting to be so, but the best approach to achieve this is debated.  Is simply pursuing your own happiness the best investment of your energies, or is working toward the happiness of others the true way to achieve personal happiness?  I believe that the latter is the only way to achieve the former, but with a twist--seeking to love others through obeying and following the teaching of Jesus is the only way to achieve happiness personally and care for others as well.

I believe this is true because Jesus' teachings hit at the core purpose of human existence in the first place--humans were created (were not an accident), and were created for a purpose.  If this is true, then only in living out the fulfillment of our purpose can we truly experience the happiness we crave.  This means that our personal happiness is not the end goal, but a byproduct of our fulfillment of a meaningful purpose, and that purpose is crucial to something larger than merely ourselves--the glorification of God by creation through following His directives and living in light of His principles.

This way of living directly leads individuals to prefer others and seek to love them genuinely, not as a contrived "fake" love that is merely to manipulate personal gain.  If care for others was simply a self-seeking act, then it wouldn't be love at all.  And I'd argue that if you are seeking to manipulate any sort of situation to the detriment of others, you cannot be truly happy, as we each have an instictive, deep understanding of right and wrong, and will, perhaps only subconciously, internalize a sense of guilt or shame over this manipulative behavior. 

Seeking, instead, the good of humanity as a secondary goal, and personal happiness as a tertiary one, the personal feeling of guilt amd shame is removed.  In this case, because Jesus also offers forgiveness for shortcoming and a means for a "guilty" one to have his or her right-standing restored. This freedom from the consequences of wrongdoing enables an individual to truly love both God and others.  The Bible talks about how someone "who is forgiven much, loves much," and I've personally found this to be true.  The grateful heart of someone who has experienced forgiveness in any capacity also has the enlarged ability to love others in a forgiving way, being willing to relinquish the power of holding someone accountable indefinitely for their wrongdoing (i.e., if they've done something to hurt you), and imstead offer them an olive branch of peace can also free you from the festering of bitterness and resentment. 

This outlook on life leads you to seek the true good for and betterment of others, because you deeply believe that they are no worse than you, and that you are grateful for the forgiveness and restitution you have through Jesus. You have a humility that leads you to move toward others rather than away, and a confidence that your worth is not found in the external assessment of anything this world proports (ex: acquistion of wealth, relationships, accomplishments, progeny, etc. are not metrics of personal worth).
