     Happiness on an individual level versus a societal level is an interesting prospect. However, because we are social creatures by nature, the two often co-mingle with each other. It is my opinion that people who link their happiness with the happiness of others are more likely to be happy and content with life. 
      Because we are social creatures, we feel the emotions of those around for better or worse. When those we love are sad, we experience their sorrow. When they are angry, we experience their frustration. And when they are happy, we experience their elation as well. Because of our mirror neurons, we feel what those around feel in a genuine capacity. This creates an interesting paradox that by doing things to make others happy, we find joy within it for ourselves. As a result, we become happier on smaller scale, but this also transcends up society in a larger capacity as well. 
      However, not every person has the same feelings and wants. There exist individuals who hyper-focus on completing tasks and proving their self worth through their contributions. It would be hard, if not impossible, for such an individual to be more interested in the happiness of others. Incidently, these people also become less happy as their staircase of accomplishments slows down. When chasing this high of personal goals, the end is not usually in mind while the process continues. When reaching these milestones, the happiness that one feels is fleeting and usually fuels their expedition into another goal. When a goal is not reached, it is devastating and can inversely affects someones happiness. I am rather intimately experienced with this as I myself identified strongly with the emphasis on personal goals until unfortunate life circumstances led to me not being able to continue any longer. 
      One last mention is that these types of happiness are more intertwined than we sometimes realise. When my favorite sports team succeeds, seeing them celebrate gives me a lot of joy. Their success, however, usually stems from a commitment to accomplish their personal goals. Would I not be focusing on the happiness of others in this situation? Would the athletes not be experiencing happiness in their own way? 
       I firmly believe that focusing on the happiness of others leads to a more fulfilling life. As a person who used to be too goal oriented, I found my happiness was fleeting. I become more richly happy when I experience the happiness of my wife, whether it was by my actions or not. Focusing on perrsonal successes is not unimportant, but it is important to always have perspective and remind oneself that they are part of a larger picture.



