A healthy dose of competition brings out the best in people. Cooperation does have its merits, however, introducing a little competition, even in a cooperative environment, can lead to people being even more productive in general. As an example, if workgroups have introduced a prize for the most effective team, each unit will work even harder towards a goal that helps everone overall.

Surely, the argument can be made that a collaborative approch can be a very satisfying experience, and generally lead to good outcomes. There is something to be said for competitions leading to "winners" and "losers" and perhaps lower overall morale, but if the competition is framed in such a manner to be "friendly", there really are no losers. If the competion is done in the spirit of comradery, then all can walk away as winners, as everyone knows that they have done their best.

It is also true that competition is just in our nature. We should use these tendancies to promote more effective use of our time and energies. One could argue that without a little competition that our efforts may stagnate, as no one is really being tested, or stretched in a way that leads to personal growth. Instead, we are subjegated to just "going through the motions" or doing just enough to get by. When a little rivalry is introduced, this breaks up the stagnation, since there is now another element to prod us on realize our best selves. Competitions brings out in us the best possible people that we can be, as long as the competion is framed in a congenial way. It is true that competition could fuel the darker side of some, which is why it is so important that we do not attribute winners and losers, but collabarators in which the best propel those who may be lacking in some way to improve the individuals and to most effectively reach our collective goals.

While there may be some downsides to competition, the overall impact on our efficiency, focus and resolve, far outstrip any of the more negative effects brought to bear through competing. Competition is in our makeup, and has led to great leaps forwad in society, science, and technology and has fueled some of the greatest civilizations that have arrisen. Would we have made it to the moon, had it not been for our competition against a rival state? Collaboration is great, but the results of working together can be greatly accentuated when we bring a little friendly competion to the party.


