Many people place great emphasis on competition. They hold the belief that in order to be "better" than a person you have to be able to beat them at various activities. This mind set is often instilled in people at a very young age. Parents often place their children into competative sports to ensure that they can "beat" others at something; including an emphasis on being better than their own team mates. However this mindset of competition above all is not what people should be striving for. It is more important to work as a team in cooperation in order to make long lasting improvements. People as a group achieve more success by working cooperatively than in competition.

The need for cooperation over competition to provide long lasting accomplishments can be seen throughout time. In ancient times safety in numbers was even more imporant than it is now. Groups of people were necessary to survive the harsh climates of the undeveloped world. More recently, it is groups of people that have made the most important advancements. The industrial revolution, traveling in space, the invention of the internet are all results of cooperation by many people. As a nurse, I am distincly aware of the need for cooperation. I could not do my job without the surgeons who couldn't do their job without anesthesiologist so on and so forth all the way to the cleaning crew who keep our hospital safe and as germ free as possible. Even the most accomplished surgeon could not do their job without the janitor.

While the need for cooperation has been shown time and time again, there are those who would say that competition is still what drove the accomplishments. The want to be better than others is what encouraged them to pursue those interests in the first place. There are a few reasons why this is not completely correct. First, if it were not for cooperation among others they would never have the time or ability to persue those interests. If societies did not work as a team the people who are able to create accomplishments would only have time to produce food and shelter for themselves, never allowing them that ability. Second, even among competition there are teams. This is proof that cooperation is what drives success. Gymnastics, a relativly singular sport still requires members to be a part of a team to grow and succeed. 

Cooperation and competition will forever be a part of the world. They drive each other. However, to produce long lasting accomplishments it is imperative to work in cooperation with others. Combining knowledge and ideas from others increases the speed and liklihood of success. Cooperation is key and, as quoted many times before this, "teamwork makes the dreamwork." 
