Competition and cooperation are the greatest motivations that people use to achieve sucess. Some people are driven by the competition of going against their rivals while others thrive off cooperation by recieving help from others and also giving help. The difference between the two is that competition is seen as going against another while cooperation is seen as working with another. In most real world situations, cooperation is most used to achieve success and is generally the better of the two. 

Success is generally achieved by avoiding failure and completing a goal. In the event of most situations, cooperation is the better tool to achieve sucess because of its ability to incorporate more people. Cooperation leads to the ability of being able to combine the knowledge and skills of multiple people at once to achieve a task. The reality is that humans are not perfect and incapable of knowing everything and doing everything. Every single person is different in the way they think, eat, sleep, and learn, which makes every single person unique. While every person has a strong point they they feel knowledgable about or comfortable doing, they would also have a weak point where they would be lesser knowledgable about and may rely on somebody else more knowledgable. Take building a robot for example, being able to create a robot using programming skills to bring the robot to life and engineering skills to put together the robot is possible to do by one person. This robot created by one person may look and act like a robot but is only limited to be tested by that one person who put everything together in their head and their head alone and could possibly have bugs in the code or fault in their build. If a seperate computer scientist and mechanical engineer put a robot together by the two of them, the computer scientist would be able to communicate the capabilites of his programming to the engineer to build around and the engineer would be able to do the same to the computer scientist which would help form an idea of what the robot is capable of and would most likely be of far superior build quality seeing as each segment of the robot was assembled by a person who was more knowledgable in their work. This is an example of why being able to rely on others and work with them would create finer work quality in the real world. While having competition would still be a way to achieve success, it only limits a persons abiltiy to reach their maximum potential that they would be able to reach with others.

Cooperation is a far greater tool to reach higher levels of  quality and success. Being able to learn and benefit from others is not a liability but a way of improving one's own knowledge as well as their quality of work since one would be able to focus on what they do best. Humans are imperfect and the best way to achieve success with their imperfectness is to combine strengths through cooperation.
