The art of happiness is not easily defined or achieved.  I will try to explain to you today why happiness is a result of focusing on our goals.  
First of all lets agree that the more we want something, the more elusive it becomes.  I believe that in order to achieve satisfaction, which is a measure of happiness, a person needs to set achievable goals, plan steps to meet their goals, and take it one step at a time.  
Personally, for me,  I am very happy when I make a list of things I want to accomplish.  Examples of this list might include yoga and meditation in the morning, getting the oil changed in the car, organizing an art project I want to work on, and maybe even a call to reach out to someone else and see how they are doing.  My personal list will always stem from my life priorities and what brings true satisfaction to my life.   So I begin my day with questions like,  what exercise do I want to include to make my body feel good?  Another question might be, what will help my household run smoother today?  And yet, another question might be, What project will engage my brain and bring curiosity and creativity to life?  Finally, a last question may be, Are there people who I can help today?  It might be a friend, a relative, or an organization.  These types of questions are important to ask because they reflect my inner value system, and will make my goal setting reflect my true priorities.
As I move through the day, there is so much satisfaction in achieving my goals.  When I do the activity necessary that is on my list, I feel purposefu and full of life.  I stay focused on the task at hand, and do that task with all of my energy.  I feel really happy at the end of the day, yes.  But also, I feel remarkably happy as I go through the process of my day, knowing I am staying focused and on point, and that I have worthy goals to achieve.  
The opposite of happiness may be sadness.  If I didn't plan to do anything with my time and I was listless and purposeless, it would make me very frustrated and sad.  Even if I thought to myself, "Just do whatever you want today," it would be like sitting in a rocking chair and going nowhere.  

There may be an argument that happiness is achieved when we focus on other people.  I would not argue with the importance of focusing on others, especially those less fortunate than ourselves, but I feel that it can be part of our whole plan.  Yes!  Definitely lets be kind, and help others out.  Lets even put it on the list as a goal.  One of my goals is to help others, and working at the local Food Bank twice a week is also a way for me to achieve something that brings me a great deal of inner satisfaction.  
I would also argue that when we concern ourselves completely with the happiness of others,  we are setting ourselves up for failure.  No one can bring happiness to another person.  We can certainly get lost in our efforts of trying to please other people, and feeling like a failure when it doesn't work out.  But when I have an achievable goal, and I know the steps I need to take, I feel like a success, and I feel very happy and productive.
So in conclusion, my belief is that we are responsible for our own happiness, and one sure method of living a happy life is to plan your day, set measurable actions throughout the day, and check them off as you accomplish them.  Keep in mind that your personal goals may include making a difference in someone else's life too, or helping an organization you believe in.  Wise words to live by are "Failure to Plan is the same as Planning to Fail."
