In today's era of social media and short attention spans the quick allure of a person or product is important.  With that fact, companies, influencers, and politicians have began to put more emphasis on capturing attention rather than creating a good product that would spread organically.  I believe that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people and are destroying the world due to short clips, human nature, and corporate greed.

The most popular websites and apps today are only meant for short impressions.  Apps like Tiktok, Instagram clips, Youtube shorts, and Facebook are all meant to give you an advertisement and impression in about 8 seconds.  The consumer is making their decision whether to watch that video very quickly and then a decision whether they are impressed enough to buy/buy-in to the product at that point.  The product could be a physical product, brand, lifestyle, politician, or influencer in this case.  These short clips are providing too much impression on people and not giving them ample time to consider the product.

Human nature is another reason that images and quick impressions have too much effect on people.  Human nature has always pointed toward trusting beauty more than the substance.  With this, a beautiful influencer, or and handome and charasmatic politican may be more valuable than one with great ideas and results.  I think one good example of this comes in the form of Bernie Sanders.  Bernie is an old, average looking, average speaking man who has a long track record of fighting for the same values which support the people.  This is just to reiterate that human nature allows these images and impressiong to effect people way to much.

One might submit a counter argument that human nature has evolved for hundreds of years to support this bias.  Human nature knows best and knows that well kept people have historically been trustworthy.  I would argue that this is not true in the current context because corporations have scientifically figured out how you manipulate you even beyond your own understanding.  Furthermore, with large corporate and political interests behind a person, their appearance may not be the result of their own efforts anymore.

Lastly, I believe that corporate greed is causing images and impressions to have much of an effect on people.  Continuing with corporations scientifcally understanding how to manipulate people; they do this in the name of profit.  If they can drive you to trust their candidate or drive you to purchase a product or even continue using the app for additional impressions, they will do that.  They support this research in the way of algorithms that use all the manipulative content to effect you (individually) the most.

I believe images and impressions have far to much effect on people.  I don't believe it can be argued as it is scientifcally documented and demonstrated in the way of short clips, human nature, and corporate greed.  The world would be a better place if they had enough time to consider what they had just consumed prior to acting on it.  The world would be a better place if results spoke more than appearance.  The world would be a better place if everyone had the same content in front of them rather than being fed by algorithms.  The world would be a better place if there was emphasis on good products and people rather than emphasis on good images and impressions.  
