Various products and packaging are made to intice people to look at or covet the items. Images are made in mind to steer people's brains into a certain direction. Images and impressions have too much effect on people because of social media, physical attributes, and cultistic curiousity. 
     Social media has too much effect on people. There have been stories in the news lately of people following trends on certain social media sites which have done irreputable harm towards them. People are impressionable and when they see other do something they want that or want to be that. The fakeness of social media has made others change themselves into that likeness that they cannot succumb to. The pictures in social media are all modified to get the reactions that the audience was catered for which is either clicks, views, or comments. people do not have an idea of that when viewing those pictures because they are not in that mindset when those pictures roll accross their screen. The next time when some person sees a picture and they blow up their house or poison themselves know that they are doing it subconciously. 
     People remember more from their sight than any other sense. So when imagse in media are shown to those people over and over again it will ahve a profound effect on them. They remember those images. They are ingrained in their brain every time an ad on tv is played. The companies want this to happen because they want them to buy their products. This might be detrimental to the person as the product could be harmful. For example a diabetic sees a chocolate bar advertised on television. They might be inclined to buy that chocolate bar even though it would be bad for their health in the long run. People do not have the will power to sustain the temptations from these ads on television. They see something and they are glued to it like a raging bull. They want ti and those people have to have it. There is no escape from the grips of that temptation because it comes up in their mind over and over again. It is a sickness really. A disease of the mind that warps their thought process and infects their choices. 
      Most people want to fit in to their comunnity. Their culture really defines them. The culture of images and impressions become a cult. A cult that which people cannot escape as that is all they know. They cannot see past the reality in front of them but continue living their lives wanting what others have. "The grass maybe greener on the other side but not the good color green. More of that swampy green which sucks people into the Earth to be trapped there forever. They continue to be sucked into the depths of reality like a huge pit. They cannot get out of the pit no matter how hard they try because they have so much going against them. They try to dig out but the dirt and water continues to fall down upond them relentlessly. People cannot rise up because of the constant fear and disdain they have for themselves. That is why these images and impressions such them in like a cult. There is no way out unless they die by drinking the Kool-aid, and maybe still they are stuck in the afterlife. The material posessions do not sustain the happiness of them. They will never be exactly like the people they see in the ad or social media post. We all as humans are different in every way. Those differences makes us unique. We must not strive to be like our neighbors but be the best we can be ourselves. The worse death is constant death. Those that follow are already dead. 
     Since images and impressions have too much effect on people because of social media, physical attributes of humans, and the ever growing cultistic curiousity, humans become trapped in their false reality instead of embarking on their own endeavers which sustains growth. The path that people follow is influenced heavily on their environment. With the flood of imformation through images and impressions that affect them everyday there is no escape, however people can take charge of their own life by understanding that these images are fake. They are not real or tangible in the sense of attainability. Everyone of these fake images drives people into insanity. Insanity because people continue and enjoy being lied to. Doing something over and over with detriment is a cause for being insane. Knowing all of the fakeness can untrap people away from these nets that are cast upon them. They can open their wings and fly away upon their dreams into their own reality. Embrace the uniqueness of themselves and give to the world their likeness and their talents.  
