If you haven't noticed, while sports and big events are very popular, they have become very politicized and polarizing to say the least.  I personally have shifted into an area of sport that never used to interest me, and that is Mixed Martial Arts (MMA).  I know that some people agree with what I just said and others push it to the side and still like to enjoy their sporting events, and to each their own. However, regardless of a sports popularity or engagement, no sport is exempt from having images and videos pushed about itself or its athletes.  The problem is that people simply accept what is shown and do not bother to do a little research to see if it is actually factual.

One example that comes to mind was when a meme began circling about one particular fighter, Paddy Pimblet, after fans saw how much weight he would regain after finishing a fight.  Now most MMA fans are aware that a lot of fighters have to shed pounds to make the weight class before the fight.  In this particular case, someone happened to photoshop a picture of this fighter out and about and added multiple pounds to his face in the picture.  Without any hesitation, the internet immediately accepted this image as truthful and began bashing the fighter on his personal social media accounts.  Now even though this seems like a small perhaps insignificant example to some, it still shows how people can see an image and immediately accept it as truth and have it affect how they feel about the fighter or perhaps the sport as a whole.  Poor Paddy stated he had to message multiple fans back insisting that someone was playing a prank and he in fact did not balloon up to a massively higher weight.  Even with the fighter personally reaching out to right the wrong, many fans still accept this image as truth and refuse to listen to this words.  Something this small and simple may truly be a great example showing how technology and images specifically, can warp people's mind and distort their view as a whole.

In conclusion, with more technological advances everyday, I feel that it will only be a matter of time before one simple image or one short video completely changes the minds and views of the bulk of everyone in the world.  With the right technology and editing experience, one can probably convince a bulk of the world's population that there is a man on the moon and he is made of cheese.  With people's impatience growing everyday, something as outrages as the previous statement will soon be taken as truth with little or no research needing to be done.  My deepest fear is that not only will it most likely happen one day, but that it was be something on such a grand and negative scale, that perhaps mankind will not be able to revert back to a more normal time.  The sad ending here might be that the simple task of stopping for a minute, digesting the information given, and using some critical thinking to formulate a conclusion may only be a recipe for logical success of days past.  I do truly hope that that day never comes.
