Happiness is truly a result of ones dedication to making others happy. There are many reasons to think happiness is derived from acheiving one's personal goals, but this essay will present a case as to why this isn't true given that we as humans are social creatures. 

Without a doubt, humans are meant to bond with each other. From when we are born, our chubby cheeks and big eyes signal to adults to adore and take care of us; to becoming a parent, our strong male jawlines and and female developed figures tell a newborn that we are mature and will protect them. Through the various bonds that bring us together, we develop feelings of trust, appreciation, fondness, love and many more positive emotions, which collectively provide a positive feedback loop to further yearn for closeness. These positive connections bring us happiness, and in an effort to get closer with humans, this desire for a sense of belonging causes us to act in a way that demonstrates to others that we are fond of them. This behavior is to do things for others without an alterior motive, where providing for someone else, much like we all learnt as an infant, signals to the other person that a bond is can develop, as can the feeling of reciprocating communion and even love. Overall, it is clear that humans have an instinctual need and desire to bond with each other, and from the moment we are born, receive signals that someone else is willing to provide for you and that is enough to bring them happiness.

It is also clear that humans are truly happy from helping others because there is a countless amount of anecdotal evidence demonstrating the loneliness felt by those who have "made it." Striving for your personal goals is certainly great, but it is well understood that climbing to the top of one's field of work requires a lot of sacrifice. Oftentimes this is in the form of time, money, sleep and community. The lack of time to bond with friends and family, in order to acheive the personal of being ultra-successful is clearly unfulfilling when one thinks about the missed memories, laughter and enjoyment that comes with community. However, being lonely at the top with no one to share moments has certainly left many wealthy individuals depressed or worse. This is clearly an indication that happiness doesn't come from filling your goals alone, it comes from having a community to which their happiness is yours as a result of shared, pleasurable moments.

In conclusion, happiness comes from the shared pleasurable experience with others. Providing for someone out of the goodness of ones heart and knowing that the other person truly love you for it, brings one pleasure - much like the parent-newborn relationship. And as a result of one's behavior, the other is likely to have a desire to reciprocate in some form a signal of attachment, which humans inately desire and gain happiness from.         
