I believe that true happiness come from within youself. I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals. Although, as humans we tend to look at everyone around us and some day wish for their "happiness", that can be very toxic. Sometimes the grass isn't always greener on the other side. Sometimes we have to be happy for ourselves and know that we could accomplish the same goals and dreams with determination. Nothing good comes out of focusing on other people's happiness.

For years, I sat around wanting others happiness because it seemed so genuine, but little did I know, I was only hurting myself. I use to be the person to sit around and say things like "I wish I was that happy" or "I want what they have" or "I wish that was me," only to find out that the person I inspired to be like wasn't truly happy themselves. Sometimes we need to focus on the things we do have instead of focusing on the things we don't have. Focusing on other's people happiness could be your downfall. Sometimes we have to step away from that mindset to be truly happy.

Some people may believe that focusing on other's happiness could help them, but me personally speaking from experience I know how detrimental that can be to one's health to focus on other's happiness instead of your own. I've always promised myself that I would find my own happiness and not worry about others and thats what I meant. Focusing on my own happiness has definitely turned my life around for the better, and I believe it can happen for others aswell. I believe that nothing is stopping anyone from being happy but themselves, and so if you want to truly be happy YOU are the one who has to make changes for youself. It's okay to acknowledge others happiness and congratulate on their accomplishments but I don't think focusing on other's happiness should be the main goal. Be your own person and decide what's going to make you happy in the end, and ask yourself if focusing on other's happiness is the answer.  

In conclusion, focus on your happiness and not every else's. Focusing on your happiness will surely get you further in life, especially when it comes to accomplishing dreams. Everyone isn't always as happy as they seem, some people pretend to be happy to make it through and sometimes that could be very detrimental to ones health. You can conquer whatever in life just as long as you stay focused and believe in yourself. You could never go wrong with focuing on your happiness. We all want to be happy and true happiness starts from within. Always remember that no matter what, you matter more than anyone else.  
