As the founders of the United States of America wrote in the Constitution, the pursuit of happiness is an inherent right in all of us. But what makes happiness? Where is it found and how is it obtained? These are age old questions to be sure. Personal happiness can most easily be found in caring for the happiness of those around us. While this may seem counterintuitive upon first glance, it stands to reason that when we devote our time and effort into others then we may also reap those rewards ourselves. 

An example of finding happiness by focusing on others is parenthood. While parenting children is no easy task, most parents would say that their children also bring them immense joy. Oftentimes parenting pushes one out of one's comfort zone- meeting new people, organzing play dates,  and attending children's events like library storytime. These tasks appear to be solely beneficial for the child, however the parents can also benefit. For example, when organizing play dates the parent may also get to know another adult and start a friendship they might otherwise not have had. In addition, going on excursions outside of the house is greatly beneficial for one's mental health and general sanity. 

On the other hand, there are those who would argue that a child-free lifestyle brings more happiness because it allows for full independence. An adult without children will surely have more free time and money to spend on fun activities such as traveling and eating at restaurants. However, family life is so important for many people that they will put those activities to the side while the child grows up. Proponents of happiness derived from serving others would argue that fun activities have their place in moderation, but overindulgence can actually bring about feelings of sadness and emptiness once the fun stops. 

All said, happiness is such an intensely unique experience in us all. Overall, it seems that devoting one's attention to others is the best way to achieve happiness. This may be through parenthood, volunteering, or even ground-breaking research for humanity. The sense of fulfillment that comes from selflessness can bring peace and joy to us much more easily than endless selfish pursuits. 

