I don't think modern society should be criticized for being materialistic even though there are definite environmental drawbacks to it.  

If people began to live a much more minimalistic and environmentally conscious lifestyle than many companies would go out of business and many economies around the world would end up in serious trouble.   A good example of this is what happened during the worse of the Covid-19 pandemic when many people were not making their usual purchases.   The American government (and I suspect other governments) had to step in to keep businesses from failing.

The best solution is to find a happy medium where people are purchasing enough items to keep the economy humming along with a low level of unemployment but companies are intentionally pursuing environmentally friendly manufacturing and distribution processes.    An example of this is where a company projects that it will put X amount of carbon into the air and then does something to offset that amount of carbon.

There are people who will say, and I do understand where they are coming from, that we should just consciously go back to a simpler lifestyle and not worry about padding the pockets of the business owners and stockholders.    That focusing on having less and doing less harm to the environment should be the main goals.

As someone who lives in Louisiana and has to deal with the increased amount of hurricanes occurring because of climate change, I can certainly see merit in that argument.   I can also see that as desirable as it may be, it is not a very realistic option because there are far too many people now to go back to a more agrarian lifestyle.   Like it or not, the Industrial Revolution has occurred and the horse has been let out of the barn.   It is too late to close the barn door.

We are now an economy that is dependent upon the labor of others for most of our needs.  Very few in our society can now be self-sustaining.    Since we need to purchase from others, we need to keep our economy thriving and that means being materialistic to at least some degree.

I think people overdo it though.  There is no need for fancy name brand things like Gucci and Reebok and Christian Dior, etc.    Amazon Basics and Walmart brands can meet people's needs just fine unless they have specific medical needs but even then they don't need luxury items.   That applies to forms of transportation also.

For those who can do so, walking and bicycling are ideal means of transportation as they both provide exercise and are environmentally friendly.   For those who physically cannot do so or cannot do so because of distance involved or needing to transport a lot of items (or young children, etc.), then the most environmentally and economically friendly means possible should be found.    Yes, this would mean that luxury companies like Mercedes and Rolls Royce, etc. would go out of business as would yacht companies but there needs to be a balance between enough consumption to keep the economy healthy and unnecessary overconsumption.   

I watch some people on YouTube who have so few possessions that they can literally fit them into a backpack.  There are others who can fit everything they have into one room and still have 3/4 of the room empty.   I think that is taking things too far.   Not only is there the issue of needing to keep the economy going but memories are important too.   If one is trying so hard to have as little as possible, than those things which we can look back on (whether they be pictures or mementos of a trip or gifts from a loved one) cannot be kept.   I think that is a sad loss.   That is another reason why I believe some materialism is important.

I guess what I am trying to say is that I am not a fan of "keeping up with the Jones," but I do believe in enough consumption to keep the economy going and the rate of unemployment low so that as many people as possible can have a reasonable quality of life.    How about if we just say that I am a fan of "moderate materialism."  I don't know if there is such a term but it seems like a good one to me.





