Happiness can be elusive for those who don't know where to find it. Happiness is something that everyone strives to achieve, yet there are so few people who take the time to think about what will make them truly happy. People are more likely to be happy if they understand their own personal goals first and do their best to pursue and fulfill those goals.

Happiness is a subjective experience that can vary wildly from individual to individual. Therefore, in order for someone to experience happiness, an individual must understand what makes them happy. This knowledge will help them to set individual goals rather than focusing on an external goal of making other people or humankind as a whole happy. For instance, someone who understands that their career makes them happy will feel happy when they achieve their career goals. Or someone who understands that crafting makes them happy will feel happy when they work on their crafting skills. 

Another significant reason why people are much more likely to be happy if they go after their own personal goals is because people are more likely to experience frequent benefits and other positive rewards when they achieve individual goals versus striving for a loftier happiness that comes with helping others. For example, if it makes someone happy to achieve a certain level of fitness, they will experience those positive rewards every time they achieve a personal fitness goal on their own. By contrast, if they were to be happy through the broad concept of wanting to help humanity, it is much harder to achieve that "happy" state. It is much easier to feel happy with personal goals than it is with group oriented goals. 

It is true that some people will find happiness in the pursuit of improving humankind or helping other people become happy. However, it is also true that not everyone finds this type of goal relatable or even desirable. It might make one person extremely happy to dedicate their lives to improving someone else's life, and it might make another person entirely miserable. 

Happiness can be achieved by shifting goals towards improving the happiness of others. But it is much easier and more achievable to find personal happiness, because personal happiness is tied to personal goals, than it is to find happiness through a general desire to help others. The difficulty in finding happiness through external, non-personal goals means that less people are likely to actually find happiness this way. 

In conclusion, the vast majority of people are far likelier to be happy if they decide to examine their own personal goals rather than a work towards a broader goal focused on the external happiness of others. Happiness is a personal and subjective experience that requires internal examination and focus, and as a general rule, more people are likely to feel happy through achieving personal goals than they are through external works. It is much easier to achieve personal goals than to achieve a broad external goal of helping others or doing your part to help humankind. Personal goals, on the other hand, are an achieveable method for happiness. 
