Happiness is something that most people strive to achieve. There are many different ways to achieve happiness. Some people believe that it can be achieved through setting a personal goal, such as a career or family, and setting out to achieve that. Some believe that happiness can be achieved through helping others through charity or other forms of altruism. Personally, I believe that happiness can best be achieved through helping others. 

I believe that happiness can best be achieved through helping others due to my personal experience. In my life I have spent many years volunteering and have had jobs in the social work field. I volunteered by teaching parenting classes to parents who were involved with child protective services and the foster sytem. During this time I felt imensley rewarded by spending time with people who are looked down on by others and who may be judged. I listened to them and tried my best to understand their situation. When they came to me afterwards to tell me something I had done, or a piece of advice I had given them had truely helped them in some way, I felt real happiness to have been able to help them. 

Some people feel that true happiness comes from setting personal goals to better themselves and achieving them. While there is definitely great things that can come from this, such as a good career, more money, and great personal belongings, I don't believe that it can compare to the happiness that comes from helping another person. That is not to say setting personal goals is a bad thing. Achieving more wealth and better opportunities can help not only yourself, but your family and friends. However, personally, I believe that helping others gives a person a better sense of satisfaction than doing things only for yourself. 

There are many ways a person can be happy. Setting goals for yourself and achieving them is a great way to achieve happiness. Doing things for others is also a great way to achieve happiness. My own personal experiences have shown me that doing things for other gives me greater happiness than simply doing things for myself, which is why I believe that doing for others is the best way to achieve happiness. 
