Materialism, it is out there. The question is this. Why do some people have more of a materialistic personality than others? It happens to the best of us. Materialism is a trait that some of us don't even realize we might have. It is all about the purchases and most of the time even the status appeal to what we are purchasing. A lot of materialistic people think that they should have all of the world's best products and even if they can't really afford it. This is known worldwide in some countries and not really just in the United States. The only places where it might not be prevalent are countries and areas where eveything is scarce as far as the necessities even. Materialism itself can make anyone penniless depending on their budget and means of income. Madonna made a song in the 70's about it.

For instance, I grew up with a friend who would always buy the biggest status items from clothing to cars. I thought she was rich. Turns out she had a medium income but just went way over the top in her budget with no ne else to blame except herself. She made those actions to buy, buy, and buy some more even if she could not afford to. She spent most of her money on things like expensive clothes, and the like. It looked good on her but in reality she was just a very insecure person inside who thought she needed to prove something to the world or maybe impress. She thought one day she would be able to pay those debts off but instead went into a bankruptcy situation. This made her wake up to the fact what she was doing and finally she hit rock bottom. It turned her around eventually. She is now back on her feet with some time and counseling, thankfully. Yes, materialism can be an addiction for some.

Now there might be people who can afford such items and others might even expect material items to be their trademark so to speak. If they know how to handle their money then this is fine to do. Materialistic types of people could have came from a very rich family background with no worries to behold. This would have made them okay to materialistic in some way. It is their choice and maybe not even their money to spend. Some people like to spoil others with gifts, too. Things just should have more balance to it, and charity should come into place moreso than feeling over the top with having "things" to a person's name. Money isn't everything, but maybe no one ever taught this type of person that. We need positive financial role mondels to guide us and also hang with. Other's financial status might be totally different than yours to keep up with. Life is not a competition. It's about how you treat people. Unless you can do both magically and perfectly you might be doomed.

In conclusion, this topic is somewhat of a contraversial one. You might have your own opinions on it but to me it stands as something that should not be over the top. Once in a while a gift is nice to treat yourself to, but to go overboard with having things to impress others constantly is just not having enough financial moral background. Again this is my opinion, and sometimes we beg to differ which is understandable. Materialism can be the root of all evil if you let it or it can be a positive for you, but you need to balance it out and decide with a sound mind. Life goes on regardless. We learn from mistakes, and sometimes materialism can just be a huge one. Be aware of your money situation, realize things are not always going to be the same as far as your money goes in this constantly changing world. It's is all up to you to decide wether things are more important to you or your savings. Do the right thing is a nice gesture with everything, including materialism. No one will judge you for being smart later on down the line in any way. 
