I own way too many things. Right now, as I type this, I'm actually putting off cleaning my room and throwing away or donating some of my possessions. I like to buy things to make myself feel better. But after years of doing this, and thousands of dollars spent on my "stuff," I find myself facing a problem so many Americans do: owning too many materialistic possessions. Our society is too materialistic, and not enough is said about it.

Sometimes I like to walk down the streets here in New York City. And it's on those walks that our society's problem with owning too much stuff really shows up. I could easily furnish an apartment if I choose the right day to walk around. On my most recent walk I saw that people had thrown out chairs, tables, bedframes, lamps, and shelves. We have too many things already, and so much of it is of shoddy quality, purchased because someone liked it for a fleeting moment, or simply to brag about owning it on social media. 

Someone who loves to consume more things may argue that those of us who think society is too materialistic should just let people enjoy their things. After all, we are only on Earth for a short amount of time. Shouldn't we spend that time buying and liking the stuff that we own? But as I look around my room filled with old cosmetics, headbands I haven't worn in years, reusable bags that have sat on hooks since I moved in, and so many items that I simply don't have enough space to show it all off, I have to wonder whether I've actually *enjoyed* any of these things. Is our enjoyment of material things true in nature, or is it that we've been conditioned to equate "buying stuff" with being happy? And at the end of the day, we can't take any of these things with us.

If we aren't buying things to be happy, then surely one would argue it's how we show off our wealth and who we are as people. Those handbags are because I treated myself and like nice things, right? My old bottles of nail polish reflect my personality, right? 

The truth is that who we are as people is what we do, not what we own. When I look at the shirts and office supplies and picture frames and other unused items that I own, I do some quick math in my head and think about the amount of money I've wasted over the years. What types of experiences could I have enjoyed with that $20? 

Our society has a problem with spending too much money on acquiring meaningless possessions. It is my own personal goal to stop buying things in the heat of the moment, and instead unload some of the many items that I no longer use. In the meantime, I can only hope society follows in my goal.
