In modern times, everyone around the globe is fixed with the desire to achieve a certain volume of wealth. It goes without saying, that for most people, leading a posh and lavish lifestyle is all they aspire. Being materialistic in a major way is good, and for this it usually depends on how or where did you source the wealth from. Being materialistic is just being conscious of your own money and trying to show an undying desire to possesses the finest things in life.

The idea of someone being materialistic usually focusses on the fact that, this individual tries as hard to lead a lifestyle that mostly many will view as being a show off. Based on the arqument that regarding modern societies being materialistic and whether it should be criticized for that, I think it's important to focus on how this wealth is attained. Having money or being in a position to afford a meal on the table has become a modern day desire in comparison to olden days. 

I am in support of the fact that having money leads to a happier and prosperous life, but there's always two sides of a coin.Many will arque that materialistic people are very neglectiful, uncaring, and only concerned about what happens to themselves and turn a blind eye on others. It's worth noting that being materialistic makes people buy worthless goods, it's something that deeply affects a materialistic individual and leads to unhappiness when the money rans out. 

With all the above stated reasons and others like falling into depression, anxiety issues or maybe alcohol and drug abuse, it's worth acknowledging that, materialism brings more disadvantages than advantages in the society and the society should be criticized for encouraging people into such lifestyles that end up destroying them, and the society at large. The society should focus on encouraging members to lead lifestyles that are empowering, educative and emulative. The society should be at the forefront in ensuring that it produces men and women who would impact it positively through various means, and not individuals who only care about themselves and forsake their communities.
