Images and impressions have a very large impact on the way society percieves reality.  We see altered images in magazines, advertisments and even social media.  Our world is filled with images made to persuade us into purchasing products, or living certain lifestyles.  The way the retail and media world frame a product, person or idea can have massive influence on the way we see the world and even ourselves.

Reality TV has been a large trend in entertainment over the last decade.  Our television screens are flooded with images of young twenty-somethings looking for love, wealth or fame.  They seem to be so determined to gain these things they have no problem doing whatever is asked of them.  Regular citizens sit at home and compare themselves to these "people" on their tv screens.  These images have impacted youth so much so that girls aim to be more like Kim Kardashian, than themselves.  We have rewarded fake beauty and have set aside moral values and intelligence.  Images have changed the way we percieve the world.

Advertisments also have a large impact on how the average citizen views the world.  All you need to do is go to a health store and you will be overwhelmed with bright colored advertisements and products promising you a slim figure and youthful skin.  Even our friends' social media posts show only the good parts of their life.  We envy those pictures of a vibrant beach setting with a margarita in hand and think if only we had that life.  Of course that person isn't posting pictures of the plane delays or fights with their spouse that it took to get to that calming beach photo op.

Our realities have been so skewed by perfectly quaffed pictures that no one is really sure anymore what is really and what is put on.  We have so many altered images thrown at us on a daily basis that discernment of what is real and what is fake is not an easy task.  This in particular makes for raising children to be very difficult.  Now more than ever, as a society, we need to focus on bringin back family, truth and light.  Put away the social media and Netflix and read a book!
