Today we are going to be discussing the topic of happiness, and what makes people happy.
To be honest we may think as people that it may be one particular thing that makes us happy but I would say it is more than that.

This is such an exciting topic to be talking about. I think things like this should be more mainstream. It would be a breath of fresh air to see something positive rather then negative in the news.I believe happiness comes by both by focusing on our own personal goals along with serving others, or focusing on the happiness of others we could call this. When we focus on personal goals we are left happy with the feeling we get from doing the activity or goal vs the actual thing that happens. For example I would say that if we had a goal to have a million dollars it would feel better to acheive the million dollars than it would to actually spend it.

I know that sounds odd but bear with me. Earning the money we would encounter several feeling from the accomplishment. Every hundred thousand dollars would probably be a signifigant feeling of accomplishment. I think once we get to the million dollar goal we would not be happy with the result. I think most of the time people want more. I do not think this is a bad thing. If people were satisfied with something very simple they would just stop and maybe lose purpose. Not everyone but I think it would happen to a lot of people. It is good to always have something to strive for.

I think it is worth mentioning the phrase that you can not help others unless you can help yourself. I always think it is good to watch out for your best interests but not to be rude. Even if you believe it is in your best interest to make yourself happy that doesnt mean you need to be rude or harm someone else with your words. We never know what others are going through. The simplest thing could change a persons day, night or whatever situation it may be.

When thinking about being happy by focusing on others happiness I do not think it has to be a huge sacrifice you are making for the other person. Little things can mean a lot. I know sometimes when I am feeling down if someone happens to call me out of the blue to check on me and genuinely is interesting in how I am doing, it makes me feel really good. It seems as time goes on more and more people are just focused on making themselves happy. 

I also at the same time believe that it is good to focus on the happiness of others. I would word it differntly and say it is good to serve others. Even if it is in a small way. I think when we feel a sense of gratitude or when we are helping others work twards their happiness or serving them it makes us feel good. I know with myself  I could be having a horrible day and if someone called me for help it would help me and possible the other person feel better.

No matter what we do unfortunatly everyone will never be happy. A big part of this is due to the fact that so many people legitimatley either believe they have a bad life or they truely do. I think it is a beautiful thing to see others succeeding in life. I know you can meet people who are resentful or mad or jelous when they see others doing well.

So in conclusion I think both are true. I personally feel we as people need to focus on our own happiness by setting obtainable goals and reaching them. However at the same time to maxamize our happiness I think it is important if we are serving others or focusing on the happiness of others at the same time. I understand not everyone will agree with my view on this however for me and in my experiance this leads to the best end result. At the end of the day if I had to pick one I would pick improving humanity vs setting goals for myself. In my opinion it would not be good to just pick one but if I had to put my goals to the side to see the world prosper I 100% feel like I could. The world need more happy people and I think it is paramount that we do whatever we can to make that happen. Nothing is ever perfect and we are just going to each have to to our best to make the world a better place.




