Humans are complex and the world that we live in only seems to highlight those complexities. Success may be defined by some as how much money they make, the power they have, or the material things they have amassed. Succes is not so objective, though. The things that we achieve have merit only when they provide something meaningful to the world. Things that matter independently of ourselves. Success and what it means is highly personal. In today's world, some manner of success can probably be equally achieved alone as it is through cooperation with others. However, true, meaningful success that provides a lasting contribution to the world must be achieved through cooperation. Otherwise, we are not contributing to the greater good of society but towards our own ends. 

Those who say that success through competition is the best way to impact our world, misunderstand true success. Many wealthy people may believe that independent competition enabled them to achieve material gains. However, if we were to examine their journey, it is guarenteed that someone, probably many, actually contributed to it. People do not achieve any measure of success in a bubble. Without others, achievement is meaningless. 

Competition also discourages creativity and uniqueness. It makes one afraid to take risks because they may alienate those they hope to achieve off the backs of. Which only serves to illustrate another dangerous component of competition - that it requires someone else to fail. Cooperation allows us to see others opinions and perspectives with only serves to strengthen any initiative. We all come with our own backgrounds, talents, and knowledge. No any one person is an expert on all things. Furthermore, cooperation enhances us all by building up others instead of tearing them down in favor of personal gain. It enables us to take risks, to think outside the box, and to discover new ways of solving problems. 

Lasting achievement and meaningful success, although subjective, is much more than the money we make or the power we possess. It is the lasting change that we impart on our world. In today's divided world especially, we need to come together more than ever before. We must stop letting politics and religion get in the way of what it means to be human. We would be a lot better off as a society if we authentically listened a little more and prioritized working together towards the common good. We not only need cooperation to produce significant, lasting accomplishments, we require it.
