While it is true that happiness comes in various forms, what truly makes one happy? Is it fulfilling a lifelong personal achievement, living out the dreams of your loved ones, or does happiness come in a combination of both? This writer believes that happiness is truly fulfilled when self is taken care of emotionally, mentally, physically, and spiritually. While it's good to try to look out for others, achieving personal happiness is the only way to self-fulfillment. 

"You only have one life to live" is a quote this writer has heard all her life. She never understand what people really meant until she became an adult. While a person wants to make his or her family happy and try to live out the dreams of others, how can that truly bring joy? Does it make sense to follow the career objectives of your parents or marry who they want you to marry if that doesn't make you smile each morning when you rise? Absolutely not! As humans, we don't have the luxury of being like a cat with nine lives. When our lives come to an end, we want to make sure we have done all that we can to ultimately not have any regrets. A person can only do that by ensuring he or she has followed the desire's of his or her own heart. While many could argue that opting to look out for personal ambitions is selfish, at the end of the day, peace within yourself should be the only deciding factor. 

Not helping others is a selfish act; however, maintaining joy in actions should accompany that. If a person doesn't find happiness in the acts he or she performs, that person should reflect on his or her life. What is missing? Is there something lacking in one of the main core aspects: emotional, mental, physical, or spiritual wellness? Is that person allowing the thoughts and opinions of others to outweigh his or her own? If so, it is time to make a change and prioritize self for unapologetic healing and happiness! By doing so, a person is more likely to feel a freedom he or she has never experienced before. 
