Competition, the base of every single sport known to man, but does it belong in the business world? Competion is nice and winning feels amazing, but how much work is actually completed compared to working with your coworkers? Is competion really a better environment or maybe not?

Competition vs. cooperation? Which is better? In the buisness world competion is heavily pushed, but cooperation may prove to be the better way to get tasks completed appropriately in a timely manner. Cooperation allows employees to build bonds with eachother, it premotes the group rather than the individual. Work to complete work taks on a team would keep you goal oriented without building that stressful competition relationship with other people, instead of trying to beat their peers, people should be encouraged to work with them and learn from them.

I have issues working in a competitive enviornment, and I have been in plenty. Someone is always so much better, not because they try harder or are superior in any way, mostly just dumb luck or manager favoritizem.
It's so exclusive, it makes an environment of "winners" and "loosers" everyone would sell anyone under the table for a better desk or a chance at that presentation. Cooperative teams make my life easier, I always have a goal and a time limit, but I know I don't have to bring the whole project by myself, I build concrete relationships with my coworkers through a cooperative environment because I know someone will always help me and support me. In a competitive environment, I don't want anyone to know me, because they will use me as they see fit.

Now for some people, they might say a competitive environment rewards those who work the hardest, but nobody can get rewards in a cooperative environment, that is false. Just because someones works hard in a competitive enviornment doesn't mean that they will get the rewards of their efforts especially if someones out preforms them that month, imagine putting your full effort in just to receive nothing? In a team building environment you will find work equilly divided by the group and can assign each tasks based on that persons skill set allowing them to complete the projects as they see fit. In a competitive environment you aren't encouraged to build relationships with your coworkers instead of seeing them as someone to beat, in a cooperative environment you are allowed to build good relationships with the people around you, you want to like the people you are with eight or more hours a day! It makes someone miserable when they are constantely are shunned and have no friends at work because you are supposed to be better than them! those employees aren't happy and will not stay at a stressful environment for long.

In conclusion cooperation provides better work, less stress, and a happier set of employees that know their jobs don't depend on how much better they can do than the number one sales person of the month. 

