Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition? Both of these traits can be a way to achieve success. I have used both of these to achieve success in my life but I do feel that cooperation is the better option for me. While competition may produce desired outcomes it can be difficult for others to want to work with someone like that. Personally, I feel better about my accomplishments when I cooperate with others than when I compete with others. Although both are ways to achieve success I feel that cooperation is the key to a lasting successful life.

In the industry I work in it is highly competitive. I am a real estate agent and there are thousands of realtors just in my local town. I have worked with very competitive people and it can induce others to want to compete with them but competition can also create rivalry and allow for people to step on others to win. Those that compete typically don't have that many close relationships. When people cooperate there is less of a chance that they will feel the need to step on or use someone else to get what they want. Most people that compete are only looking out for themselves and don't typically care about others feelings. I myself have competed to achieve success and I don't feel as good about myself as when I work with others to accomplish my goals. Those that compete seem to have more of an instant gratification and may not experience lasting success due to others not wanting to work with them again. 

In closing I feel that being competitive may be a way to achieve success but it can be a lonely way to get there. Cooperation is a much more gratifying way to achieve success and it can unite people instead of ostresizing people. Being successful is not the most important thing in life, it is being with others and working with them to achieve your goals and making alliances that helps achieve the most success. Cooperation is the key to lasting relationships and success in business because when you work with others they will remember that and want to work with you in the future. When someone competes it creates animosity and people are less likely to want to work with someone that they know will do anything in their power to win. It is better to succeed together than to succeed alone. 
