We live in a constantly competitve world and society but I believe people achieve so much more by cooperation rather than by competition. Taking into account that at the very basis of cooperation, differing minds and ideas come together and build upon each other and the overall additions of each and every good that each individual has to offer creates something that competition couldn't. Competition is healthy but I think we as flawed and emotional human beings take competition to far and it hurts society in some ways rather than achieving success.
Some of the worlds greatest accomplishments have come from the backs of people who came together to achieve these results. Looking at it recently, there was the covid-19 pandemic that devastasted the entire world and in the midst of all the chaos and stoppage of daily living for billions of people, scientists and medical professionals came together from different labs and institutions to help research, manufacture, test and spread the vaccine to all parts of the world. Looking back at past pandemics and viral incidents, countries have always took to cooperation to achieve success in mitigating losses and finding groundbreaking cures to these problems. Also it's not like cooperation is this "we need to be nice and not criticize" but it's about working together to get the best out of each other which involves respectful reflection of ideas and always looking to better ourselves for the betterment of others and society. That's why collaboration between others has always provided better results and high quality products.
Cooperation tends to breed long-lasting genuine relationships between communities and differing parties which I feel turns into sustainable growth in whatever the specific focus is on. Like I mentioned prior, it's building upon itself with good ideas from others and it allows for further progression. And this is where I feel competition, that is lacking because it hampers siginificant progression and we get ideas that are based on just trying to slightly better one another rather than building into something long-term and sustainable. I think of my personal experiences with with working in finance and how personal value and showing personal worth versus cooperating caused me to act in a way where I was simply looking for short-term results and thinking in the now rather than building connections and working with others to provide more nuanced and well-thought solutions.
For what it's worth, competition is by no means a bad thing and has resulted in some signifcant ideas and successes in our history, but I genuinely believe that competition has the capability to bring the negative and bad in people because of how selfish and greedy we as humans can and have shown to be. Cooperation has shown and will continue to produce higher quality successes that take into account a broader approach coinciding with attention to the finer details because cooperation naturally builds upon the good and best of each aspect that everyone puts in. 
