In today's society, we are often bombarded with advertisments and media that lead us to believe products and people alike are far different than they initially appear. This congnitive dissonance is widespread, from politics to celebrity personalities, to products and foods we purchase for ourselves and loved ones. Although it can seem as though we think we know what we are getting from a product or even a person, the truth is we are all susceptible to suggestion. Our society engages in seeing and digesting as much media as we can through advertising and interactions online. We are shown images of beautiful people and the latest in technological, exciting gadgets that will change our lives. How can we be sure that what we see is what we get? The truth is, we just can't.

We have all heard about studies that have been done in relation to social media and how many folks only share or post about the good things going on in their lives. This alone has been offered as a root cause for self-esteem and mental health issues in young people and adults. This carries over to celebrities, politicians, and other people that are in mainstream media as well. Fans and supporters believe that these personalities are a "certain way," and when an incident or reveal of an unexpected event or behavior goes against what was believed, it can cause major issues for that person going forward. Careers have been permanently changed by circumstances such as this. Take the Amber Heard and Johnny Depp fiasco, for example. Although both parties were fighting to let their "truth" be known, in the end both of their careers have suffered. Everyone around the world has seen how they behaved behind closed doors, which was far from what we all imagined they could be like.

Others may say that this is not a widespread issue and that we all possess the power of critical thinking. We should be able to evaluate the behaviors of others or pay attention to what the label on a product says without being charmed by the box or the packaging. Although this can seem easy when it comes to a box of cereal or a bag of chips that is 65% air and only 35% product, it doesn't eliminate the feelings of disappointment or anger when we find out we haven't gotten what we expected. 

It could be that we humans need a lesson in managing our own expectations, but could it be that we have been consumed by making things look good at all costs? Seeing images everywhere that tell us how things should be and being given the impression that certain people are a certain way can ultimately set us up for disappointment. Will our society make changes to correct this so we can "be real" and have a clearer understanding of what is what? Only time will tell, but until then we are all stuck in a cycle of being influenced and affected by what we are shown, everywhere we look, every single day.
