Over the course of our history, society has tried many ways to garner and grasp success.  There have been full theories on how society should be run that has been based on rivarly and proving oneself  as well as theories based around cooperation and helping each other. Many times when push comes to shove however, humanity tends to help each other and cooperate. In this essay I will describe why people achieve more success by cooperation instead of competition, despite how many areas of our society rely on it to try and create innovative success. 

We can look at the micro-scale easily to find examples of this. In hobby groups such as cosplay we set up competitions to award people for their abilities and the production of their costumes. These compeitions are usually around craftsmanship and ability and inherently favor those who would be considered to be experienced in the hobby. This unfortunately makes the hobby less accessible to those who want to learn and in some cases fosters negative feelings towards cosplayers with more clout and knowledge, creating strife within the hobby group.  It is easy to find any amount of drama by searching social media sites like reddit, twitter or tumblr in regards to whatever scandal is surrounding the most notorioius (or infamous, depending on who you would ask) cosplayers.

However, this hobby group has areas that are a wonderful example for how cooperation in the end achieves more lasting and significant effects. Some veterans of the hobby (where veteran is defined as being a particpant for at least five years) now take to platforms such as youtube or tik tok to help teach those new to the hobby the skills in various crafts such as sewing, sculpting, jewelry making, makeup and other similar crafts. This exchange of information has created an overall increase in the quality and aesthetic of the cosplays people are creating. This exchange doesn't end here however, many also now share resoruces on where to purchase supplies or how to do something for cheaper. This overall sharing of knowledge and resources not only helps everyone create better cosplays but also makes the hobby more acessible to new cosplayers. Not only does the increase in the skillset of all the members of a hobby foster better sportsmanship between everyone as well as friendship and fun, it also solidifies and reinforces the hobbies lifespan and member base, which will help keep the hobby thriving for longer.  

Some would believe that by focusing on cooperation in this hobby that people would lose the drive to improve themselves, never really pushing beyond what the group collectively knows and that competition is the only way to foster innovative ideas. However, cooperation doesn't mean the complete annhilation of compeition. In fact things like competitions that celebrate participants work and technique and craftsmanship would (and should) still exist but would now be in a more beneficial spot to the community at large. With more cosplayers on the same knowledge level they would all be more likely to try to be innovative in their techniques, to push themselves above others. The "standard" to judge against would be higher as a result and without the worry of inherently being less skilled there would be more participants in the competitions as a whole. This would lead to more advancements within the crafting and techniques used and more knowledge gained to then give out. In this micro-scale example, cooperation breeds better competition which then when shared with others fosters cooperation, rinse and repeat.

Ultimately, the focus on cooperation would create more instances of success and longer lasting accomplishments that others build on. Competition creates a knowledge hoarding that prevents success. However as described above moments of competition can exist within cooperation when the focus is inherently on the celebration of what cooperation can achieve thusly creating an output of success that is more sustaniable than compeition can create alone. It is no question that we as a society should focus on fostering cooperation than trying to elevate one over another in the way that competition does. 
