     Cooperation is a powerful tool in driving all members of a team towards meaningful, long term success. Cooperation amongst a group can put all members of the group on more equal footing and lead to an increase in results. On the other hand, competition and rivalry can lead to one person or group succeeding while several others fail. The person or people who fail are usually left feeling dejected and demoralized. 
     All people have unique skills and areas of expertise. When a group comes together for a common purpose and allows each member to feel valued, free to share their thoughts and able to express their ideas the likelihood of achieving success and the level of success are greatly increased. Stronger members of a team can encourage and strengthen less skilled members. Through working together and helping one another, all members of the group can work together to meet a goal they may not have been capable of individually. Achievement leads to greater self-esteem and confidence which then affords a person or group a momentum to continue at a high achievement level. 
    While competition can be a motivator at times, there can only be one winner. This results in several "losers".  Although, one individual or group achieved  some level of success, it will not be at the highest level. Diversity of thoughts and ideas will lead to more complex and significant accomplishments. One person simply will not have the plethora of skills that an entire group can posess. When individuals are facing stiff competition, nervousness or performance anxiety may cause them to not reach their full potential. A failure usually leads to negative emotions and can make it hard for a person to feel as though they will ever have a success. 
    Cooperation is a learned skill that allows one to solve more complex problems and increases the power, strength, and intelligence available to you. Meanwhile, competiton can breed feelings of anxiety and aggression, making it difficult to focus on the true problem at hand. It is hard to solve an issue when you are focused on a rival rather than producing solutions. Cooperation leads to more victories in more meaningful ways. 
