The way people take in and process their environment is a basic human characteristic. What we see with our eyes, hear with our ears and smell with our nose incite emotions and inform decisions that we make on a daily basis. These stimuli can either assure our decisions or trick us into believeing something that may not be true. For years, advertising companies, entertainers, politicians and other public figures have become adept at utilizing and manipulating how the average person responds to what they see, hear and smell.

The most heinous abuser of how impressions might effect people's decision making is the advertising company. They exist solely to drive profits for whatever company they are contracted to. These companies do years of research and spend millions of dollars perfecting their trade until they are able to boil down the vast majority of the population into easily influenced subsets. If a certain color draws the eye to a product, or a slogan illicits a subconcious response that make a person want to buy, these companies know about it. There are, of course, certain "tricks of the trade" that are utilized by more than just advertising companies. Politician and Celebrities have also adopted slogans, clothing styles and platforms that make them seem more sympathetic and trusting to the people they are trying to influence. The media has also been a great abuser of funneling the public impression of certain events throughout history. Recently, the great divide between political opinions in the United States has lead to social media bans and angry mobs calling for drastic action over unfounded accusations. 

Some may say that marketing strategies aren't meant to be subversive, but informative in a more creative way than looking at a spreadsheet. A case can be made that these strategies need to exist to promote competition. If everything looked, sounded and smelled the same then society would be an unimaginative and dull place. Whatever these arguments may be, there is one thing that is certain: Companies and individuals will never stop trying to influence the general public. It's human nature to grow and succeed, to thrive and compete. The only way people can protect themselves from being completely influenced is to look at all sides of the equation and stay informed.

