Competition or cooperation? That is the question. A lot of people think that the only way to get ahead in life is to be competitive. On the other hand, there are some who believe that cooperation is the true key to success. My belief is that, while competition can be useful; cooperation almost always paves the way to everlasting success and happiness. Working together, towards a common goal, brings about a sense of unity and achievement.

Cooperation is so important in our world today. Reason number one being that our world is full of complex problems, and only when we cooperate can we begin to think of solutions to those problems. Another good reason to cooperate instead of compete is that it enhances equality. It allows many different individuals to contribue their unique ideas. It fosters connection. It boosts our active listening skills, instead of boosting our egos. It brings lasting positive change. Last, but not least, it creates unity, which is something our world is in desparate need of right now.

There are people who would argue against this and say that competition is the key to success. There are people who would say that "survival of the fittest" is the only way to live. Sure, this creates individual achievement, but does nothing for the greater community. If anything, it only allows feelings of jealousy, anger, and resentment to build up in others. Competition, in our world today, is not something that should be our priorty. We should be working together to create a better world for future generations. In conclusion, and in my humble opinion, cooperation is the true key to success. Cooperation saves lives. Cooperation creates positive change. Cooperation helps us to be the best versions of ourselves. For better or worse, I will always choose cooperation over competition!

I just got a "warning, you have been inactive for two minutes" message, so I need to add that I have said all I can say about this topic. I will sit here until the 30 minutes is up. I hope that you will give me the $11.75 bonus, as I feel I did a great job on this assignment. I followed all the rules, and made a compelling argument. I just have nothing else to say. I won't sit here and keep typing, repeating myself, when I have said everything I need to say regarding cooperation versus competition. Also, I hope you will keep me in mind for future assignments. I type an average of 75wpm, and writing is one of my greatest passions!
