The year is 2022, and what do we have to show for it? Quite a lot actually! It is human nature for us to want to acquire items, materialistic items to show what we work for, what we love and enjoy and what we spend our lives revolving around.  It could be something passed down through families, items from our childhood, or items that we have because we now have children. Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? Should we be judged for our vast collection of items? I think not. The items that we surround ourselves with in our lives tell a story. One that starts in our childhood, evolves and changes as we grow. It can be argued that "things" aren't important, but at the end of the day our surroundings are a direct reflection on who we are and who we are striving to become.

As a child we begin collecting toys and stuffed animals of the things that are given to us as important items. These could be gifts, rewards and easily become items that we are attached to and have a bond with. It is hard to move away from items that we love but sometimes we outgrow them. The most popular reason that items are discarded from a childs collection is because we simply run out of room or an adult decides that a child doesn't play with an item enough for it to remain in their possession. These items are important building blocks in a childs life. Can you look back on your childhood and remember a favorite doll, teddy bear or baseball glove? (I still have mine!)

As we grow older, we do tend to leave items like toys behind because we feel as though we are too old for them or move on to new and exciting age appropriate items. That doesn't mean that we don't hold on to those items, just that the type of importance we used to place on a stuffed teddy bear may be transferred to a new favorite item. It is also important to note that items of importance given to us by beloved family members are harder to let go of than others. As we grow older, we realize time is a factor in some aspects of wanting to hold on to something "just a little longer" because our time with a grandparent or a relative moving away may be running out. It is a sad thought to bear but helps in understanding the sheer importance and reasoning behind holding on to an item in our life. 

As adults, the pattern remains the same while the items may change as well. As adults, we have life experiences, sentiments that we can't bear to let go of and quite possibly have 'grown a family' so certain items may affect our memories and actions differently. For example, before becoming a mother I could never imagine holding on so dearly to a baby blanket for a longer period of time than my child would use it for. My daughter is now ten, and I still have her favorite blanket tucked away to pass on to her when she becomes a mother simply because I treasured those months with her so much that I can't "toss" that item in the trash or give it away to another person. We may hold on to physical photos even in a digital world because we remember the importance that an item as simple as a photo can bring happiness into our days when we pass that item hung on a wall. Heirlooms become conversation pieces and allow us to retell a story that we never want to forget. I am a sentimental human who places value in items that I choose to keep in my life and in my home. I proudly present them when visitors arrive for a few hours or a few days. 

An argument can be made that items themselves are not important and can and should be discarded. We see clips of advice on how to declutter and get rid of items that do not have a purpose or are taking up space quite frequently. Some may watch these clips and feel a pang of guilt for holding on to items that do not have an actual function but I am here to tell you that those items do have a purpose whether you realize it or not. The mind is a ticky place sometimes. In our busy schedules we may be in and out of our homes several times a day but I have realized in my most stressed out times that I feel safest in my home. When I look around my house and my walls, I slow down. It is the picture of a relative that has been gone for years that reminds me to slow down and take a deep breath. To relive moments with them that I don't want to forget. What if that item were gone? Would my silent and simple reminder to slow down and reflect still be there? I personally treasure holding on to things that take me back. That remind me of the past and what I want in the future. For myself and for my family. 

I hope you never look around you and feel the need to rid your life of materialistic items. You chose those items for a reason and to have them in your life for a purpose. We are a very evolved species and we are capable of many things. It is my wish that you are able to keep mementos and memories surrounding you for peace and comfort. Our lives would be long and boring without a statement piece handed down from generation to generation to tak about over Thanksgiving dinner. Imagine staring at blank walls and tabletops or shelves daily. It is in these items that our memories can be kept for safekeeping. Although they may slip our minds during the hustle of a busy day, when you look around at night, you will be reminded of the greatness in your life. The days are long but the years are short, fill yours with memories to last a life time!
