Based on the provided information used in conjuction with background evidence gained from general life experience, one can assert that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others. This comes from looking beyond simple thoughts of winning and losing and success and failure, but an in-depth analysis of human to human interaction. As humans are naturally social creatures, evolutionary characteristics support human nature to act in ways that support the common good. 

Take, for example, a contest which involves two friends and one, singular prize. At the end of the game, when the winner is determined, generally the one who takes home the prize feels guilty that the other is not taking home a prize. In general, the person who doesn't win has a more positive outlook on the result due to the fact that they feel happy for their friend who won, while the true winner feels mostly guilt for taking the prize away from the other. 

In another case, there exist a great many organizations created by extremely wealthy people that act as donations funds for those in need. While the people who organize and financially support these organizations have incredible wealth, and could purchase any good or commodity they ever desire, they choose to donate their wealth to others more needy than themselves. This demonstrates that if one could acheive happiness on one's own accord without having charitable constributions, these extremely wealthy people would gain no benefit from donating. However, it is clear that they gain a positive outlook for themselves, both introspective and from the general public, by using their accrued wealth to support those less fortunate than themselves. 

While in some cases certain people would rather win themselves and would have a more positive outlook from taking home a prize from a friend, these situations usually stem from greed, or unreasonable prizes. If, for example, a prize consisted of a large sum of money, the basic bounds of happiness versus unhappiness do not apply due to the sheer value of the given prize. 

In summary, it is clear that people benefit more and acheive greater happiness in cases where they can, themselves, document a case of helping others or improve others' lives. Not only does it make them feel good, but it also provides them a sense of purpose in life. One can go through one's entire life and acheive every goal they set for themselves. However, if they fail to improve another's quality of life or contirbute to the common good, their legacy will not be passed on to remembrance. This fact proves the necessity of contribution to society in one's life, if they hope to be able to pass on a legacy after they are gone. 
