Most humans are guilty of materialism at some point in time in their lives. Materialism is the act of spending money for the ownership of possessions. In the era that we live in, it is a measurement of success and contributes greatly to our feelings of self-worth and happiness.

There are those who want our society to return to the days when our time and energy was spent to provide basic needs for ourselves and our family. In bygone days, many families and neighbors depended on each other to provide what they themselves could not produce. This system worked as long as people had good health, the weather cooperated and there was no sudden, long-term disruption of their routines. However, over time, it was realized that more was needed so that life could be sustained during the bad times.  Rural folks saw that those who were wealthier and were able to utilize resources unavailable to the common man, not only survived those bad times, they thrived. By overproducing and selling those overages to the common man, they were able to become wealthier and gain more material goods. 

It is our human nature to want our life to be as good, if not better, than those around us; therefore, the hunger for more grew.  The easiest way to show others that we are thriving is to flaunt our wealth.  Soon, we went from a society that produces only what we need to a society with an abundance of stores and personal possessions. The race was on to have the best house, car, boat, clothes, etc. on the block.

Materialism has been a boon for our economy and our system ensures that most anyone with an entrepreneurial spirit can become a millionaire if they are willing to put in the effort and time. There is no doubt that our "creature comforts" keep us safer, healthier and allows us the freedom to live in ways we could not during those bygone days.  However, as a society, we have paid the cost of losing ties to each other and creating classes of people that cannot rise above their beginnings on their own. Hopefully, we can continue to work towards solving this problem and use our wealth for the greater good and not our own selfish desires.


