In today's day and age, it is easy to mistake appearance for reality, especially as, with the advent of social media, seemingly everyone has become their own media channel.  For example, many people have "Instagram" pages, where they often have photographs featuring them in ideal vacation settings and promoting a luxurious, abundant style of living.

To me, there are certain advantages to today's age.  For one, those maintaining an image and using technology to do so are arguably engaging in productive use of time.  Their social networks grow and they receive positive feedback from others, which can only be a good thing.  They also may develop a skill that can be deployed for work.  Creating a new reality online can possibly lead to a better reality in work and daily living.  

However, there are several notable drawbacks that come to mind.  First, there may be an enormous gap between what we choose to show the world and who we are.  This can create either a sense within ourselves that we're not good enough without a media channel, or that we have grown an audience hungry for our pictures and snippets of our lives.  Second, there is an inescapable aspect of life that time spent on one endeavor necessarily reduces the time available for another - every hour used to update a social media page is one less spent with friends and loved ones, or advancing a career that may not have anything to do with maintaining images with personal photos and videos.

Despite the drawbacks of our new era, where appearances are nearly impossible to distinguish from reality, we do have an opportunity to make the most of our new tools to enhance our lives.  For example, we can always select from one of the many social media channels to engage rather than belong to many, or opt out entirely.  For another, we can leave it alone entirely for peers to engage while making good on promises to ourselves to pursue what makes us feel productive.  We can use social media to our advantage, by publishing articles in areas of our interest and use the power of channels available to us to share professional work.  

Alternatively, we can use the warnings from our new world of appearances that seem so real to stay more squarely in a world where tangible actions make a difference in the here and now.  For example, many people volunteer their time and rarely broadcast how happy it makes them feel.  In my case, following the tragic loss of several pets, my family's adoption and subsequent training of new pets re-connected me with sides of myself that I thought had been lost, or forgot even existed, including compassion for small animals still learning how to navigate the world.  I had believed I would never forgive myself for the passing of the little dog we had, who we lost too soon from pneumonia.  However, helping new animals in our lives brings me great joy, and makes me feel as if we are honoring the pets we've always loved by showing loves for new members of the family.

Lastly, even as public figures present themselves a certain way, it can be helpful to attempt to understand people from their own perspective.  I know from my own personal experience that I will never be able to tell so many others of the reality of my life and the various experiences I have had.  I can only imagine the stories of many public figures and what they have seen in their lives, and we in the public should not be privy to the person they show those they trust most.  If everyone knew the real me, some would like me and many would not - like anyone,  I have strengths and weaknesses.  As we consider appearances and reality for others, we may want to start at home first and see how we can become better, so that our obsession with others becomes a lower priority.

We must be more forgiving of ourselves.  We will always be impressionable and be in awe of others before us.  This is natural in a society.  What we cannot do, however, is draw the wrong lessons from our obsessions.  When we go overboard, we should try to pull back from being overly concerned with politicians and actors.  When we are too self absorbed, it makes sense to look outward for better examples, which often come more from courageous moments or displays of character from public figures than from constant monitoring of these same individuals.  As in many situations, what matters most is that we are aware that appearances can be helpful and deceiving, and that we can learn from both situations.  We are not as helpless as we seem, and we can always reach beyond ourselves to help others and find new things within ourselves.  We can never know or predict what inspires us at any moment.
