         We live in a society where anyone can become a star, be it via Youtube, TikTok, or other social media. Originally influencers were only those that were thrust at us from Hollywood. Their purpose was to have people think a certain way in order to manipulate a mindset. Is this still happening today? Are people so mindless that they cannot think for themselves? It seems that the purpose of Hollywood and social media is to create these mindless beings that will be followers all for making the all mighty dollar. They are creating a reality for people that do not even see that they are being influenced. 
          Prior to everyone having internet and the ability to connect with people around the world in a flash, there was radio. Reality was shattered for many when a radio program depicted the earth being taken over by alien beings. People panicked and believed that this was the case, until they were told it was just a story. But even in the dawn of the media age you can see the influence of those behind the curtain.
          Media took on a totally new age of influence with movies and the all important television. We can break down the word television into "tell-a-vision". When we look at it that way we can see that maybe there is a hidden definition in the word. Many would joke and call it the boob tube because people would just sit and stare at the moving screen in a living room. But this invention would be very influential. For example, it is said that television is what won John F. Kennedy the election over Richard Nixon. Kennedy was shown to be handsome and cool as a cucumber on television. Nixon on the other hand was thought to be not very handsome and sweaty. The television influenced the election. People preferred how Kennedy looked over Nixon. The intellectual discussion to a back seat to looks.
          Nowadays we have anyone and their mother trying to become stars on social media such as Youtube or Tiktok. The more likes and views someone receives the more money they earn. These people then become modern day influencers just like the movie and television stars of yesterday. What many do not know is that they get paid in order to push a certain idea or product once they show that they have a decent following. So no longer are they autonomous. They are now pushing what they are paid to push. They are making people think that what they think is an influencers reality, when in fact they are keeping their "employer" happy. We can see how important these influencers are in todays world because they are called "Youtubers" or "Tiktok stars". People are so blinded by perceived stardom that they are no longer able to find any discernment whatsoever. Is this intentional by those who created these platforms? Most likely so because that is what makes money. 
          Todays society is very influenced by what is seen on screens whether it be phones or televisions. This influencing thought started from the very inception of the first type of media: the radio. As those who made money off this type of influencing could see the profit, influencing increased with the invention of the television. With platforms such as Youtube and Tiktok, the possiblity of making more money increased because now there was a greater number of pushers for product to sell. People have become dumbed down in their ability to think independently and discern what they see. Children that have only been brought up on screens are even less able to be thoughtful of what they see. The images on social media becomes their reality. People will eat up all that is thrown at them. From challenges on Tiktok that can cause harm to selling the newest grocery at home plan, reality is now in the hands of those behind the screens.
