My essay today will be about how I believe that cooperation is better than competition when trying to acheive success. I will outline the benefits and cons of both. And I will explain who I think cooperation, in the long run is the better of the two.
I believe that cooperation is the best way to acheive success because, as the old saying goes, two minds are better than one. And this holds true for pretty much everything. There is far too much knowledge in the world for just one person's brain to hold and understand it all. However, when working in a large group, cooperatively, with a single goal in mind, the many can acheive what the single or few could never. Let's take a look at a few examples through out history. The atom bomb for example. Sure Einstein was credited with much of it, but it took hundreds of scientists working in unicen to accomplish this goal. And the results of course were devastating, but the lasting effects of what was accomplished can not be denied. And how about solar power or wind power, was this the result of one person working alone, in competition with many others? It was not. It was the culmination of hundreds, if not thousands of brilliant minds, working together towards the same common goal. I believe that the many can acheive what the few could never. 
Now, I would be remiss to leave out the counter argument to my opinion of course. Competition can also acheive great things. There are, of course, many examples of this through out history. I think the first thing that comes to my mind is the race to space between the countries of Russia and the United States. We were both fighting terribly hard to be the first into space. And this pushed Russia to get there first with Yuri Gargarin in his infamous first man in space mission. And he successfully landed safely back on Earth. And then the United States, spurred on by Russia's acheivement to become the first nation to make it to the moon and back to Earth safely. There are so many examples of where competition spurred on the creation of something new in history. The Olympics are another example of course. 
But with all that being acknowledged, there is still the remaining fact. Much more would have been accomplished, in each of these examples, had we all just worked together to acheive the common goal. Let's take a look at the race to space example. Just imagine what we could have, and still could acheive had we worked together? The combined resources of both Russia and the United States? If we pooled our resources and minds, there's no telling what we could have accomplished regarding space travel between the two of us. And then let's take a look at another example of how cooperation could have helped when competition only hindered progress for mankind. Think about war, what is war but not the ultimate competition? Could we only cooperate and end the wars there is no end to what humanity could accomplish. Just imagine there is alien life out there, looking down at us, but not wanting to make contact until we can prove we are worthy. That we can cooperate as a species seems to me to be the only way we can prove that we can cooperate with the rest of the universe and whatever lifeforms are out there.
To sum up, I am certain that cooperation among all of us is truely the only path forward. It is certainly the only way we can advance to a higher plain as a species.
