I believe that success is determined by the person, cooperation is a huge part and so is competition. They both play hand in hand when it comes to succeeding in life. But I believe cooperation is more important than comptetition and here's why.

Cooperation is when people work together to complete a certain task or goal together. The point of cooperation is to help achieve the goal as quickly as possible and with the best quality that can be done while working on that team. That is the main purpose of cooperation, however there are many other amazing benefits for cooperation. For example, new ideas and ways of getting the job done more effectively and efficiently without compromising quality tends to happen more when people are cooperating with others. Like when you are trying to meet a deadline on a software project and a team member introduces a new set of code for the product and it helps streamline the process so that other members don't have to work as hard on that specific project. Another example would be going to the store and having the employees help you pay for your food at the checkout so that you can go home and eat it peacefully.

We use cooperation everywhere in our lives and I truly believe the world would not be the way it was without cooperation. If people didn't work together to achieve a common goal, which is survival, what would we all be doing to live? Many wouldn't have the basic needs to survive and wouldn't make it very long in this world if we all didn't work together to survive. Survival is what drives us and cooperation is what makes our species so successful at surviving. Not only do we help eachother but we also learn about eachother and our surroundings as well. Cooperation is paramount for the survival of humanity not only in todays society but in the future. 

We learned from our mistakes in the past and have learned that basic cooperation with eachother makes lives better and we should always strive to do our best. Doing our part in this world and working with others is what being a human is truly about. In conclusion, I truly believe that cooperation is the most important thing in our lives and its why we live the way we do today.


