   Modern society is very materialistic compared to the people who came before us. People years ago used to live in a world that focused on buying, and or trading, necessities. I belive we need to get back to this. As a society we have lost the focus of life. We are consumed with gaining items we probably do not even need. All based off of what someone else has.
   People want what others have, not because it's necessary to live, but because it's necessary to them that they feel like part of the group. Society. The only reason they would feel like part of the group if they buy all this stuff is the advertising and representations made by ads that project acceptance. People should feel tricked. They should be upset that we've allowed ourselves to be brainwashed in this manor. 
    This all consuming materialistic world we've created wreaks havoc on the enviornment also. Where do people think this stuff goes when they aren't using it anymore. Or in the process of making all the stuff they want to buy. 
   The pressures of buying these materialitic items are everywhere.  Even if you know that you don't need something, you still feel pressure to buy it and be like everyone else. These days we spend most of our time working to buy stuff we don't need. Pay for cars, houses, loans for cars, houses, pools, and many more things. I realize some people like living in such a materialistic world but they don't realize the cost to them and others. They have no idea how relaxed and fulfilled they would feel only having to worry about necessities and their families. Families would be so much closer to one another. This stuff is all just fake fulfillment. You cannot take any of that with you when you die. Nobody is going to remember what car you drove, what clothes you wore. They
  If we would get back to the basics as a society we might be able to all get along. Part of what divides people is what each other has or doesn't have. We shouldn't be that worried about stuff we don't need and we should know the difference. 
  With all the ads and endorsements and just all of it, it's out of control. It's grown into a whole other monster. We should be worried about our family and housing and food. Basics. I realized it's too far gone to start back at the basics so I don't have a solution for how to get us back but we could all start by not spending money on anything we do not need. What we think we need and what we need are the problem. 
