   The amount of impact pictures has on people depends on how much time people spend looking at images. This is not a universal concept that applies the same to all people. If people look only at an image, they can miss the substance or the reality behind creation of an image.
    Some people are obsessed with image. They take lots of photos and watch lots of tv or movies. They may even have a career based on creating images or evaluating pictures created or captured by others. These people place too much emphasis on the visual realm and surface appearance, but this is only my opinion and about as valuable to you as a taco if you dislike tacos. Of course, deaf people are excepted from this value judgment because image is the primary way they can interact with society. Trust them to move beyond an image into deeper understanding.
    Other people take in images but as a smaller part of a more balanced, 'diet,' of sensory input. While reading does require looking at printed words, it is a different process of translation than looking at a photo or movie. Some of these people can put too much emphasis on image if they obsess about appearance or image to a level that becomes unhealthy. Or these same people who conume less images can have pictures and visual imagery held in a healthy balance in their life. They can penetrate beyond superficial level. And blind people are outside of this whole realm of thinking, especiually blind since birth, as image is a concept not an experience for folks blind from birth.
      There is no way to make a blanket statement about people putting too much emphasis on image. Some do, some don't. Asking for a final pronouncement on this topic lacks intellectual rigor and basic  understanding that each human is an individual with own stregnths, weaknesses, interests and values. Many, many people can perceive the intent of creating an illusion in a image-maker. Do not discount the ability of people to look before a curated surface to the truth below.

