A common question in work is whether or not someone is a team player. Some people believe that competition is the only way to achieve success. Others believe that there is great power in cooperation. It is always ideal to be able to work collaboratively in a team setting, but a deeper question perhaps may be whether or not someone is more successful working collaboratively in a team working altogether to achieve one goal, or by working in competition against another team. 

If we are looking at a workplace in a specific department it is probably better that people work together cooperatively all towards the goals and tasks of the day. Fostering a collaborative and positive environment is important for retaining employees and keeping everyone happy, productive, and on task. However, this also still begs the question of whether or not those workers would be more productive working together or working against each other. 

Often times there will be little competitions put together within a work group such as whoever brings in the most sales gets a bigger bonus, or whoever opens the most store credit cards will get a coffee card. Creativing any kind of rivalry can create a higher drive. But is this drive because they are really in competition with each other or because they just want the reward? If they were told they could get the reward simply by hitting a numerical threshold would they have the same drive to acheive that reward without the competition? 

Competition on a sports field is also the entire point of that game existing. It is important to have that rivalry and skirmish for the game to even exist and be entertaining to watch. People are arguably drawn towards conflict and competition. It makes for better drama and something more entertaining. 

Sure, having a rivalry at work or in a game or in competitions might be important for it to even exist, but if we take a step back and look at the broader world competition and rivalry might not be the best thing for the world. 

Take a look at how the world operates right now. We are in constant fights across cities, states, and countries around the world. We have had, and continue to have, countless wars and fights where there is an abundance of needless death and loss. There are food deserts and famine in some places where others suffer an abundance that goes to waste. The current MPVX outbreak arguably could have been prevented if the US government had shared the stock pile of vaccine doses rather than hiding them away and letting them expire. Humans may have a great competition mindset, but we are also collaborative and communal creatures. 

Working collaboratively is important for so many reasons. We would be able to solve financial problems, housing problems, health problems, etc. Yes, we do need to take into account also the whole issue with money and economies and it is much bigger than just whether or not we work collaboratively, but for a complex world it is better to have cooperation. 

What about rivalry in a more complex world? Is there absolutely no place for it? Potentially not, but that is hard to say. Without the great Space Race between the US and Russia how long would it have taken us as a species to invest the time, resources, and money into figuring out space travel and all of the scientific and technological advancements that came from that? Without that rivalry would we have gone to the moon when we did or would it have taken us longer? But this also begs the question of is rivalry good for some things and not others or is it black and white? Scientifically in that case, having the rivalry was probably the best option. But more recently with the COVID-19 pandemic it was better to be collaborative to come together and develop the vaccines we needed to more forward. As stated before, rivarly between countries isn't helping the world either and leading to wars, famine, increased costs of living, increased houseless population, etc. 

There are plenty of people out there who are brilliant and have a lot to offer the world, and they are spread across the world. Having cooperation across the world would help foster more, bigger, lasting accomplishments. There is definitely a time and a place for competition and rivalry, but in the overall case of the world the benefits of cooperation outweigh the benefits of rivalry, same with the risks. The risks of a cooperative world are minimal if any, whereas we already see and experience the risks of rivalry every day. For a complex world it is best for us all to come together. Leave the rivalry in the office for that coffee card to whoever can bring in the most sales, and then bring collaboration out into everything else for the good of us all. 
