It is said that one should do what they love and they will never feel like they are working. For this reason, I believe that a person should pursue their own personal goals and, in doing so, will almost certainly end up helping others. For example, I love children and I love music. I taught Special Education for five years and it was the best job I ever had. I kept a guitar in my classroom and everyday I would play and sing with the students. I would let them strum the strings while I fretted the chords. We would sing "Ghost Riders in the Sky" and they would make the coyote noises! My Principal called me Mary Poppins.  I had one little autistic boy who never talked but, when we would sing songs from "The Lion King", would stand up on a chair like the little lion and sing his heart out. It was so inspiring and it made me feel so happy and satisfied with what I was doing.  I never felt like I was going to work; I felt like I was going to see my other family for a few hours.

While I was pursuing my personal passions for music and working with children, I was also helping the students to develop their vocabulary, listening, musical and social skills. Another passion of mine is gardening. I was fortunate to have a large outside area where my class could plant a garden. I can't tell you how much enjoyment the students got from working the soil, planting seeds, watering them and watching the plants grow. When they actually got to eat the beans, tomatoes or whatever, they were elated! They learned so much about caring for things, how things grow, science, working together. They were so proud to take some carrots or radishes home to their families and tell about how they grew them. We also had a kitchen in the classroom and, the ones who were able, learned to prepare simple meals and clean up afterwards.

I guess what I'm trying to say is that if you do what you love, you will almost certainly help others. I can't even think of something that someone would love doing and pursue as a career that wouldn't help other people somehow. When I moved from California to Texas I stopped teaching because it would have been very difficult to get my Texas teaching credential because of my financial situation. I worked at many other jobs like call centers, warehouses, etc., and never found the happiness or joy that I got from teaching. If I had it all to do over again, I would do whatever it took to keep teaching. 

I can see why some people would say it is better to focus on doing something to help humanity and, by doing so, you will find happiness. I'm sure that's true but I also think you have to do something that you personally are passionate about or you won't be able to put your whole heart into what you are doing. Your job will feel like a burden instead of an uplifting, inspiring wonderful way to spend your day. 
