                      Co operation  is the best way to achieve success our life. Some people thought that competition is the only way to success. But when we doing a work with co operative then we gain success. Particularly when we doing team work always want to be co operative. Any work that can done by a team or with fully co operated people has always got successed.


                     For example, In our family also we need to be co operative. If we need to conduct a party or a function then all the family members are need to be work coperatively. Then only the function got a big reach to all of our family members. Our children also follow us. We will teach our culture and enthusiam to our youngsters. Same like that in friendship also we need to cooperative. Even we have more knowlege and memory power, co-operative is the way to avoid failures in our life.


                  In this modern society, we forget our culture. In ancient society, We all are living in a joint family. From that we know that how to give respect to our elders. But now all are forget that. So all are follow their ancient culture and be co-operative with friends and family members. So that we avoid failures and gain success in our life.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

                                                                                                    


                                                              
