In a time where there is so much suffering and hate going around, finding happiness is only getting harder, and the ability to help others is not always at the forefront of peoples lives.  Setting your own personal goals, and finding a way to make your life the best it can be, is the best way to happiness.

We all wished that we lived in a world where everybody was happy, and we all got along and had everything we need.

We would all like to have that extra time to go help out a friend in a moments notice, or donate our weekends to helping out at the local soup kitchens or Big Brother program. Unfortunatly for most, with gas prices and the cost of living only getting higher, we are all realizng that in order to make our own lives happy, we really need to focus on ourselves and our own goals. 

The ability to work hard, set goals and acheive those goals is a massive source of happiness. There is nothing better then looking back at a job well done and knowing you have set out and earned that slice of happiness you wanted to badly.  When you spend your productive times helping everybody around you, what is left for yourself at the end of the day, or the end of a lifetime?

Of course it feels good to make another person smile, and to know that you helped that person find a little joy. Donating your time and setting aside your own goals even temporarily, can cause us to not acheive the things in life that we have set out to do. It's ok to let somebody make their own way, while you are busy making yours. 

There are those that truly belive that the best way to happiness is to be a srevant to those around you . Those days that you help others has to be limited, eventually others can drag you down and you have acheived nothing in the end.

Like they say, no good deed goes unpunished. It will always be better to work hard for yourself and put your own happiness ahead of others.  If you aren't in a good place on your own, how could you bring happiness to others? Instead you should be a leader in your life and show those around you the way to happiness of their own making.
