We live in an age where absolutely anything a person could want is accessible with a single mouse click.  We are bombarded every minute we are online with advertisements telling us what we want, or what we didn't know we needed.  These constant prompts to buy and/or sell are explained as being necessary to support the lifeforce of the world economy.  If we don't demand new items to consume, others cannot earn the money they need to consume things they need.  In other words, Materialism is necessary.

But is it really?

Five years ago I embarked on an experiment to determine what in modern society is actually necessary, and what was propaganda fed to us in the name of Materialism.  I decided to strip my life down to the bare minimum to see what I actually needed, versus what society told me I needed.  I started with a 280sf cabin devoid of electricity or plumbing.  I told myself that, without the traps of modern society, I could live without the need of material things.  Does a human actually *need* electricty?  Why would I need refrigeration?  I could certainly still function in society without an internet connection, right?  After all, humans survived thousands of years without these items, and there are still parts of the world that thrive without them as well.  What makes this part of the world so special?

My dream experiment was dashed within two days with the realization that nothing in modern life is free.  Yes, I had paid outright for my cabin and my land, but Property Taxes do not disappear.  Insurance for the morons that trespass is necessary.  My cats will only eat machine processed food and snub their noses at freshly caught fish.  Therefore, earning money was a necessity and total self-sufficiency was off the table.

My self-suffiency skills earn very little money, because I live in a society that does not place value on artistic ventures.  So to earn a living, I had to rely on my professional skills - technology.  To work in technology successfully, I needed an internet connection.  I could rely on solar power for the modem, router, and laptop, so I still resisted installing electricity.  One concession made.

When you work full-time in technology, however, you work FULL TIME.  There is very little time left in the day to do the things you need to nourish yourself, like cooking and bathing.  You can forget having the time it takes to grow/process your own food, or work to maintain your property to provide self-sufficiency.  The moment I went back to work in technology, I entered a spiral of, "I don't have the time to provide these items myself, therefore I must buy them."

Fast forward 5 years later... I have electricity in my cabin and I can barely walk in it from all the items I had to purchase to support my life of working in technology (refrigerator, stove, plumbing, etc.).  My land is overgrown and I think I need to hire someone this year to maintain it... or buy some fancy tools to make the job quicker for me to do myself.

Materialism breeds Consumerism breeds Materialism.  We live in 2022 and the world is too far down the rabbit hole for any person in a modern part of the world to shun Materialism.  We should not criticism Materialism, but we should give it a frequent side-eye and still evaluate with every click, "Do I *really* need that?"  
