For the reader who comes across this essay, I quite enjoy writing upon this subject. I am adopted from China and have many experiences in my 28 years of both focusing on my personal goals as well as the happiness of others. In my humble opinion, I believe focusing on ones personal goals will create more happiness for ones self. I grew up quite alone and abused by many wearing masks of love. I involuntarily created walls up and guards that never came down fully. In doing so I only have truly had myself. I have watched a scared orphan take on mountains she never knew she could. That has brought me the most joy in my life. The reason to wake up every morning and continue life. I suffered from suicidal thoughts all my life, starting at the age of 10. Back then, I modeled, sang, danced, acted, played sports. Almost anything you could imagine. I felt proud to make my family proud. I felt like I wasn't quite a member of the family but at least they were mighty happy to claim me to other people. I was a puppet and I performed my part like a role in a broadway play, to make my family happy. Unbeknownst to my parents, they caused me to not have a childhood. I grew up too fast and often look back on my childhood to reflect on past wrongdoings. But instead of pain and humiliation, I now find solace in myself through finding what truly makes me happy. I have never had any successful relationships where toxicity wasn't present. I now being an adult know that if was due to the fact that I never truly quite figured out how to love another person and I never knew enough about myself to actually love myself. If I were to be truly in pursuit of my own happiness, I believe I must first know the root. I feel wickedness and evil lurk inside me and often I call it rage. But sometimes when I briefly and for a short period of time let my guards down, I realize how sad and resentful I am. I currently have almost zero relationship with any of my adopted family. So in some ways, I've become an orphan twice in my life. I try to find ways to show myself how much I love myself because that little girl inside me deserves it. I am capable of walking into rooms and causing high function happiness. But it's also the same with anger. I do get a lot of pleasure from entertaining people and making them overjoyed. However  I believe that focusing on my personal goals is most likely to make make me happy because if I can't love myself, then I certainly am incapable of truly loving someone else. Some of my main focus goals have been working on my credit, saving up an emergency fund, buying a new car, upgrading my skillset. I have succesfully accomplished 80 percent of my adult goals. That feeling of growth and healing has caused a positive ripple effect in my life all due to the fact that my inner soul is finally truly smiling. And this time in my life, its not a fraudulent forced smile.                                                             
