      Some might criticize our society for being too materialistic but its exactly what makes our species so special. Nevermind its importance in modern society to building a quality of life, it allowed our species to become what it is now. Being the exact thing that has brought us so many advancements in humanity  from electricity to fire and the internet. It has brought many advancements that are essential for modern humans from beds to homes even having electrivity. As well as the entire knowledge available to humanity at our fingertips. Materialism is the very thing that pushing our species forward and has set us apart from other species on earth. Humans like any other species is territorial and with the need to protect it we were able to eventually build houses that were safer and larger with more ammenities. it has brought us modern utilities from pluming to electricity to having internet, cable and even air conditioning so many things have been implemented in our lifes that are possesions that we spent money on that just simply make our lives better.
     It is what led too many incredible inventions that in modern society have revolutionized our species and the way we live. More since the industriul revolution more than the hundreds of thousands of years of progress prior. Some might argue against it saying that it is something that only modern society has created and is only a new issue. but every culture on earth is materialistic in some way just at different levels and is simply human nature. Some might argue that it leads to conflict at best and and maybe even war at worst.  But that is just the worst of humanity that can make even the best parts of humanity into something evil and greedy not the other way around. materialism itself is a great thing that can be twisted into something bad with greed.
      But it itself has itself brought a peaceful way to resolve conflict through laws meant to create wealth with stocks and good financial decisions it has also brought peaceful ways to steal wealth from another individual from going to court for harm done to onself to hostile takeovers of a company. it has had an impact an incredible impact on our laws that also help protect what we have from our houses to our money in banks. it also brings advancements in daily life with new technologies being created to make others purchase them by trading convenience or quality of life for money. Things like the intruduction of home computers or modern cellphones. Materialism has brought humanity something that defines it from any other species on earth and activaly makes our lives better every single day of our lives.

