Like optical illusions, our impressions of people and products cloud our perception and have too much influence on us. 

A big reason why our impressions I believe images and impressions have too much impact on people is because we often don't consciously know how our impressions are created. Studies have shown that flashing images for milliseconds (too short for our brain to consciously react/process that we have seen an image) can create impressions and influence our decisions. For example, flashing negative/vulgar words can create stress responses in our sweat glands. Since we are not conscious of these responses, we may misattribute our responses/impressions to the wrong stimuli (for example, a stimuli occuring after the negative word was flashed) and create inaccurate impressions. The framing of a situation can also unconsciously affect the magnitude of an impression (how impactful or not an impression is). For example, describing a car accident as "a car hit another car" would not create as large of an impression as "a car crashed into another car," even though both phrases refer to the same car accident. 

Our impressions of ourselves are not an exception. We believe that we know ourselves best, yet we are often susceptible to inaccurate impressions of ourselve. Some examples of this are the fundamental attribution error (we attribute situational factors to our own actions and not character traits). 

One could argue that impressions are important and only one of many different factors in our decision-making process. Impressions are important, especially for snap judgments or situations where we must think and act very quickly. And although there may be other factors that contribute to our decisions, impressions are often relied upon too heavily. This can be seen in many logical fallacies (like attacking someone's character rather than their argument) and in other brain teasers (ie. A and B together cost 1.10$. If A costs 1 dollar more than B, how much do A and B cost separately?). Although we can use logic to carefully escape the influences of our impressions, this often requires extensive education in logic (which many people do not have) and is very taxing and difficult to do. Even worse, people may believe that they are using careful logic when in reality they are relying heavily on impressions. And this becomes fatal when people try to take advantage of this heuristic and manipulate our impressions.

No one wants to believe that what they see and think are not real, but this mindset is exactly what leaves us susceptible to manipulation and deception. We must all think critically and use our impressions with a grain of salt. 
