Materialism.  What does it mean for you?  To some, it's a sense of belonging, to others, it's completely meaningless.  Whether technological or other desirables have been strengthened in order for us to achieve more, we have to monitor whether those achievements still register the same intrinsic gratifcation or reward.   What does this mean for society?  Does it force people to work harder, or less?   Is it directly tied to happiness and / or sadness?  All of these questions and so much more require a deeper consideration as we continue to scathe through life pursuing our deepest wants and needs without thinking about it exostentially.  

 I believe that we should try and replace materilism with something that means more, but others tend to disagree.  I personally never feel satisfaction from any purchases, but what is it that makes individuals different?  Does it have to do with social status?  Does it have to do with psychological mindset?  All of these questions and so many more need to be taken into consideration.

Often times we go through life obtaining further and more important status, and purchasing items that help us to maintain our status.  Does this status reward people the same way that the individual purchases we make do?  Do people really get as happy from materilistic things as they do from helping others, perhaps even helping others acquire possessions?  The fact of the matter is, modern society creates these hurdles for individuals to overcome.  But is society to be blamed or criticized for being materialistic?  Or did we create this ourselves, to help reward ourselves when we acheive certain things?  All of these questions require further examination to help us better understand.  We do actively play a part in achieving this materialistic societal status.  But how important is our role, especially to others?  One could argue that without reward we would become extinct at a much faster rate.  

The counter to this argument would be that in order to keep society growing and interested in the future, you have to have a rewarding system.  But perhaps we can begin to shift away from materialistic natures to something more meaningful and more intrinsically gratifying.  What would the other types of reward systems could we put in place in order to still have a reward without it being so materialistic?  Is it possible that you get to explore more human interactions as a reward instead of a purchase?  How about more opportunities?  How would we keep the same work ethic, or perhaps even improve the work ethic in order to maintain output?  We'd have to challenge ourselves as humans to do this, as society has created a sort of norm that seems rather materialistic.  

In conclusion, the way people react to materialism is different for different people.  Whether you value your possessions or value your hard work, we all sort of rely on using our energy in order to create "more" whatever it may be, materialistic or not.   It's up to us to shift away from materialism or closer towards it, but at he very least we need to examine it further to better understand so that we can continue or discontinue, materialism.  




