Many people question, do images and impressions have too much affect on people?  If you read news articles they say that yes, these images and impressions do have an affect on people.  I believe that to be true.  My son is 8.  He loves to watch Youtube, listen t music, look at social media, and shop online.  I think it's had a profound affect on him.  He dresses like a girl which is something he started at daycare.  But watching YouTube and shopping online has lead him to what I would call "slutty" clothing.  He loves Melanie Martinez who he found while watching videos on Youtube.  First he started to want to sing like her.  Then dress like her.  Then he started looking up clothes like she wears.  Then that lead him to other videos and other clothes.

I think that the packaging used in stores has an affect on us.  We got a package of shirts the other day for my 15 year old son.  They were from Walmart.  They were simple white t-shirts but they were wrapped nicely together.  They had TAPE on them contecting one to the next.  They were then placed inside an attractive looking plastic container with a nice photo with writing on the front.  My son goes to open them and asks why is this tape here?  Well it's to keep everything looking nice. Then when you get the items you feel good, like you are getting high quality stuff.

Impressions are important with celebrities also.  One clear example of this is Donald Trump. Nobody expected him to become President of the United States.   He really did not have the background to be a President.  But before you knew it there he was becoming President.  And people, through the media, got ideas about him.  Some so much so that they stormed the Capital Building in what they thought was a bid to save the election.  

It's very interesting to take a look at these things.  Some would say these things have no impact.  That we can ignore these things.  Like advertisements.  Sure we don't look.  But others do look. They pay attention.  They buy things.  We see what they buy and we want to be like them so we buy things.  Look at the recent uptick in buying Teslas.  We see that has become a popular thing. It's a $50,000 outrageouly priced car but people are still going out and buying them.  






