 How often has the use of images to create impressions to guide the response that the media is trying to attain. How many times have people became manipulated to doing are acting a certain way. Are you being controlled by what you see

 I believe that the impressions that we recieve from the images that the media chooses to show is clearly there to imprint and to  give us the picture that they want us to see. 
 the reasons i say this is because marking to the masses is a billion dollar industry. it is used from everything from grocery store shopping to electing politicians. The media paints a picture that they want us to see and the ones who dont do their own research will unfortunatly  fall prey to being misled. The images from things as simple as cereal boxes can draw attention to someone in a hurry and if a picture seems wholesome how can it be bad, right. The images we get of our national leaders are the same. They only show ones that project them in the best light and not a natural pose. to further prove this just listen to an ad or commercial without looking at the images and see if you feel the same or have the same opinion of them. Public figures in general know how to make themselves look good and get away with stuff that normal people would never. its all because of the perceptions of the images that we are being given
 
 Its very hard for people to argue against these points because you can see them everyday. They are in our face if people paid attention to more than their cell phones and starbucks. Once people start to wake up and see whats going on and how they are being lied to and made to buy products or opinions we might be able to make a difference.  They see how entertainers draw attention to themselves with stunts and shock videos and its all in an attempt to sell something. 

In conclusion, images and impressions are way to much effect on peoples daily lives and routines. People make bad choices because of what the media tells them they should do but its done indirectly. its like they show an image to incite a response so the people act like it was their idea initially. People need to open their eyes and see whats really going on. 
