Survival of the fittest is a concept popularized by Charles Darwin, a scientist who studied evolution and development of creatures. Many people reference this when they think of the business world, or the adult world in our society. We compete for resources and positions, we compete for romantic partners, and we compete for survival depending on when and where in the world you are. Competition has also driven some of the greatest scientific advancements of the age - World War II, as devastating and awful as it was, resulted in massive technological advancements that spurred the United States to become the economic superpower of the day. While cooperation can lead to advancement and progress, competition provides the needed pressure for true greatness to be achieved. 

Cooperation among nations has been pointed to by many experts and thought leaders as the better way forward for humanity. We can achieve so much when working together and sharing knowledge. It promotes and fosters unity and understanding between peoples. However, consider the space race, and the cold war. While these times were fraught with conflict and anxiety, we saw such drastic growth and success in the technological sector that their benefits are impossible to deny despite the significant risks and consequences. Additionally, when competition is involved, more funding is often given to scientific efforts to reach even higher heights. In contrast, cooperation often results in many parties contributing small amounts in order to seem like they are helping but without significant personal cost. Thus, the overall potential of the project is reduced. Cooperation also can fall victim to behind-the-scenes conflicts between parties who want to be the sole beneficiary, resulting in outright competition that instead of propelling the project forward, leads to its failure.

The numerous examples throughout history show that competition, while complicated, problematic, and often associated with significant deaths, usually brings greater technological advancement and success (to the victors, at least - which is another essay topic altogether) than cooperation alone can do in a similar time period. Cooperation often appeals to us more because of moral and ethical principles, but if we are purely thinking of success in a vacuum and not considering the consequences of either path, competition will result in higher achievement than cooperation. Competition drives us to be the best version possible, even with all of its faults. 
