        I agree, and disagree with this exact writing prompt. First we need to start with following, what value means to some people. Some people may think that it's just materials you can get it again. In this case this is not always true. A lot of things people can not get a copy of, and the brand or certain style, certain ethical background of the perticular item may become lost, stolen, broken, you name it anything can go wrong and we may lose something that means something to us forever. When it comes to children alot of don't have fortunes or mountains of money where we can just go out and buy and replace many things, some of us have to use what we have because we just simple don't have the money to do it with. In society today, some people don't understand the word "value" whether it be people, things, places, items, anything of that nature or source. 

       Second we start of with How important is this certain item, place, style, brand, person, any thing. I would say it depends on How much it means to this person? How long has it been in their family, in their life, anything of this sort. You can tell how a person will be affected when a certain type of thing or person, brand, style, or certain item can't be replaced is ripped away from their lives, and how it makes them feel in life. Some people get really upset and lose their mind when certain things are took from them. So I can understand yes that their may be some things most of anything that can't ever be replaced and may can be replaced just will take a lot of time and effort, and skills with your mind to come up with and create again. 
 
       Third, I do agree that sometimes we all can go on a spending spree and just buy things out of control and should leave things for others,  but some people may also buy up an excessive amount of things and put it up so they have it for a while. In all honesty no matter what you do, your going to be criticized by people who are just haters, and love to hate on people because they may have a different opinion about someone that they really don't know the situation about, or exact perticular background of it all, so maybe it will help if you can help change how people think, sometimes, but even then their will still be people that have a issue with things and like to continue with hate. Oh Well! Thats just the way life is, and we either accept it and move on or we don't and face the bullcrap that comes behind it. 
