     In my formative years I spent many hours teaching young children at school. During this time I observed students as they strived for accademic success both individually and in group scenarios. After doing so for quite some time I came to the conclusion that the best way to achieve success in life is through collaboration with others. 
     This conclusion of mine became apparent in particlar when teaching groups of elementary aged students learning to read. When the children were set up with new and challenging books to read individually I found that pressure to be the first to finish reading a book was too great for some students. These students would become anxious because they felt as if they were competing to finish their book quickly and could not keep up with some of their peers. This would result in these students having a long lasting sense of failure and in some cases they would give up trying to read entirely. This sense of competition was completely counteractive to these children's success in reading. However, when the same students were placed in a group reading session with their peers the result was very different. These students who were prone to feel anxiety or prone to give up on their assignment would read aloud and recieve enouragement and help reading from their groupmates. This led to these sudents having a sense of accomplishment and pride! They looked forward to reading time and greatly improved their reading skills simply by feeling as they were part of a group instead of competing to finish a task before or at the same time as others. 
     Over the years I have heard many arguments against this method of fostering success in students. Some think that by adding an element of competition or by rewarding only those who do the best in the classroom you are creating an environment where students wish to rise to the occasion and be a winner. I can surely attest to the fact that this is true only for the smallest minority of students. More students felt shame and anxiety when competition was intoroduced than any other emotions. This led to a lack of achievement and no success. 
     The results of the learning scenarios I have described can be applied to any aspect of life. When competition is the enviornment for any area of life, it only does good for a small amount of people. Most people would achieve their goals and reach success when placed in a cooperative and collaborative environment where their special needs can be met by the group and where they can be encouraged by their peers to succeed. 


