In regards to the question, "Do people acheive more success by cooperation or by competition", we can look at it one of a few ways. 

The first way of looking at the achievement of success is to focus on cooperation.  The second way is to focus on competition. The third way is a mixture of both. Let's address the first way first. 

First viewpoint: "people achieving success by cooperation." This is perhaps the most user friendly approach to view success. When we think of success, we must consider the most ideal scenario where everyone is working towards the similar goal, which is determined by the collective and not just one person. Through this way, the team cooperates to the end goal, and reaches that goal far more effectively as there are more hands applied to the same task. As humans are social creatures by design, we were born to be cooperative as that is when we are at our best, the majority of the time. 

Second viewpoint: "people achieving success by competition." This viewpoint is a bit more easier to digest, because examples of this are prevalent in a lot of our entertainment, predominantly sports. Here, the success and end game goal is obvious: To be the best team, or player, as in doing so you acquire more fans, more fame, more money, etc. Your status in life being directly tied to this success.

Third viewpoint: "people achieving success by both cooperation/competition." This viewpoint is focused on the best of both. Teams in general are the best example of this. A team is working towards the same goal, so through cooperation, they find success, but find even more as the competition fuels them to be at their best. 

Now that the viewpoints have been briefly defined, let's address the flaws of each to hopefully reach a consensus. 

First viewpoint flaws: The flaws for this viewpoint are a bit obvious in hindsight. While yes, it is true having more people can make a task easier, it can all fall apart by the possibility of one or two individuals you cooperate with not pulling their own weight, thereby making a task way more herculean with a deeper analysis.  Your attempts at cooperation are limited greatly by the people you choose to cooperate with, and that risk increases exponentially depending on the volume of help you are receiving, and how much of that help is lame to your own goals and ambitions. 

Second viewpoint flaws: The flaws for this viewpoint are tailored specifically to how intense the competitive hunger is for a person. To what extent and how much value does one possess in being the greatest at something? Is success tied to this? Is success tied to the effort? Either way, however the individual defines success for themselves, the odds of they themselves getting in the way of their ambition is far higher. Be it a sports venture, or just competiting with a colleague. That, and by it's very nature, competition can lead to a wealth of mental health issues and anxiety as the pressure of success is labored only by the person who is much more married to the idea of the competition. 

Third viewpoint flaws: The biggest flaws of this viewpoint is that by mixing both the first and second viewpoints, you acquire potentially all the pros of each, but also acquire potentially all the negatives of each. This at a glance made it seem like this one would be the best viewpoint to apply to acquire success, but the risk of both negatives greatly outweigh the likelihood of this particular viewpoint holding any water. Therefore, of the three, this is the one riddled with the most flaws.  It should also be noted that with this viewpoint, you seek to lose the most in terms of agency. Too much of your success is tied up in others, wherein your input is highly limited, stifled, and rendered useless. This viewpoint has no place in consideration when thinking about what contributes to success. 

Let's address the takeaway:

Do people acheive more success by cooperation or by competition? The answer to me is obvious, when considering all of the above points: Cooperation is the clear standout as being how people acheive more success, and here is why. 

Why people achieve more success by cooperation, is that cooperation is flexible, whereas competition is not. With cooperation, you as the person cooperating with a team of your peers can choose to what extent a person who is helping you can contribute to your goals. There is no spectre or boogeyman looming over you with the stressful anticipation of having to compete to win over whomever else is invested in your success tied to a victory. Your success is self made with cooperation, and can take many forms. In some cases, the success can be attributed to making a cooperation work in of itself, and is not strictly limited to an end goal state.  Whether or not you decide how much you allow someone to help you or not affect your end goal or state of success is entirely on you. You are not being judged when you are cooperating, because you are sitting in a seat of priviledge to not be affected by that. Even in situations where you must cooperate on a team endeavor to meet a deadline or goal, if the deadline encroaches and you know you are capable, or at the least want to secure success, it's up to you as a person or individual to get that outcome. Therefore, your success endstate is far more easily obtainable based on the sort of person you are, as opposed to competition which usually has a successs endstate attributed to an outside influence completely outside your control.

This is why, when addressing the original question, "Do people acheive more success by cooperation or by competition," there is no contest (pun intended): Cooperation rules out as being the one true way to garner success, with competition losing out. 
