From a very early age, people are existing in a constant state of competition. A toddler's block tower has to higher than their sibling's. A child with chocolate milk has to blow more bubbles than they have even done before. This idea of competition persists well through adolescence into adulthood. Participation in sports to be the best one can be, and working harder in the workplace to be considered the best at a job are only a couple of examples prevalent in representing the mass idea of competition and "being better" that persists in the modern day. However, this idea of competition can last as a toxic mindset while the act of cooperation has demonstrated greater tendencies in the betterment of the individual and the community.

In the FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) robotics competitions. Elementary through high schoolers participate in a series of technological challenges and compete in regional, state, national, and even international competitions. While a goal of most participants is to win the gold medal and prove their own robot to be the best among their competitors, the games and competitions in which the robots and teams compete can only be done with the cooperation of alliances. Three teams ally together for a match against three other teams, and the best way to win more points in a match is to work together, by passing balls or disks from robot to robot, helping when a wheel or tread is jammed, and more. Even in the pits (robot maintenance area for the teams), teams have been known to work together when one is facing difficulties or missing some tool needed to fix and improve their robots. This cooperation among teams encourages teamwork and the importance of seeking strong alliances to beat some challenge, not necessarily another team.

Sports players cooperate with their teammates to play the game, committees and groups in corporations and other organizations work together to solve some challenge presented to them. Man could not have set foot on the moon without teamwork among the multitude of scientists, physicists, computers, and mathematicians working tirelessly to make every component of the project work. 
While independent work and rivalry in competition can tend to drive individuals to success, which can aid in the success of those around them, any intense rivalry can quickly become toxic and counterintuitive to some larger goal.

It often takes years for siblings to figure out that if they teamed up and pooled their blocks, they could build a tower taller than they ever have before, and two straws can blow more bubbles than one. In most contexts, whether small games played by children, larger sports matches, corporation challenges, etc., working together is not just requested, it is necessary. Cooperation in some context of competition can strengthen the possibility of great accomplishments, but ultimately teamwork proves to be the best tool for conquering challenges and achieving goals.
