Helping people in search of happiness or helping yourself find happiness can be a difficult choice. Providing for yourself and your family or helping others, where does one find the most personal satisfaction? Does money really buy happiness?

We are all animals coexisting. The person in the community with the least reflects on the entire community. Helping others in the world and your own community can lead to more happiness than soley pursuing your own goals. Living life with blinders on keeps you from seeing the beauty in the world while taking time to help people and your community can bring a deep fulfilling happiness. 

It is so satisfying to provide for your family but there are many people who, because of their situation, are unable to take care of themselves and/or their family. Helping them suceed and reach their goals will raise the entire community, allowing for a greater wellbeing for all. There is a greater trust and mutual respect if everyone is equal. Assisting someone find a job or a new place to live are small goals that may make a giant difference in someones life, allowing them to give back and help the community. Offering to buy someone a few groceries can change someones whole month.

Some would argue that its most important to see that your family is fully taken care off, possibly overly taken care of and it's lovely to have those resources but everyone needs to be able to eat. One should just pull themselves up by their bootstraps without outside assitance can be impossible. Sometimes you need extra long bootstraps and arms. That it's not their job to worry about everyone and people need to help themselves but the community you live in is relying on these other people.

It's very fulfilling and you are more likely to find a sense of happiness if you are helping others. Watching your community and the world grow and improve is one of the best things you can do for yourself and your wellbeing while also improving the lives of the people around you. Knowing you helped shaped the world into something slightly more beautiful is one of the best feelings in the world.
