     Are we really living in the world that our mind has been exposed to or have we deceived our true reality without even knowing it. In these times, we are surrounded by what our eyes think we see which gives information to our brains and chategorizes our likes an dislikes. It can be from clothes we wear, singers we like, actors and actresses we see on the screen, foods we want to try, to what we even see on the news.

     When a commercial pops up on tv and has all these bright outfits, great looking people, and even products that look appealing it hits the happy center in our brain. Maybe the music in the ad is enticing or maybe it even has hidden messages that make us attracted to whatever we are seeing. It all comes down to selling the product, whatever it may be, and twisting the truths about it a bit as to make that sale. 

     I am sure that there is not one person who has bought something and been highly disappointed. I am not saying in all things but in quite a few things. Clothing, for instance, can look so great in an ad or commercial then when it arrives it looks nothing like what was shown. Next, you get the ever so tedious process of trying to send it back for a refund. Good companies will do that quickly other companies you may wait months if ever they give it back. The same thing with perfumes, jewelry, shoes, even cars they sell online now and drop off to you. We have to ask ourselves is anything ever really real in description. 

     Furthermore, there are many companies though that will give you straight accurate information because they don't want just one sale, they want multiple sales. These types of companies want great reviews and return customers. They help teach us to live and work in the real world, our reality, and that their products are exactly what we get with no feelings of being taken. We get what we intended to receive. 

     Lastly, businesses that try to be clever with their misleadings are actually being careless. They will not succeed as much as they could have by just being honest. It may take months or years but nothing can prosper continually that is built on rocky grounds. Even our media spokesman eventually fail if their reportings consistently become untrue. People stop watching them and all the commercials that are on that network. Then it becomes a double loss to them. I have a strong belief in a Father in Heaven and he teaches us what is righteous and what is not and we are asked to walk in the ways of righteousness, to do unto others as we would want done for us. He tells us to not place material possessions high in our lives for many reasons but mostly that there is nothing everlasting to them. People who walk around in expensive clothing are equal to those who do not because underneath all of the "extras" is the same existence of the breath of life. Movie stars and singers who are there to entertain are also just as equal to the rest of us. We all have the same possible destinations. Gifts are given to each of us in accordance to what we are to do in this world and being clever, deceitful, or making things to appear different is not a part of prospering.  Appearances may be the first things we see but it is what is inside of the packaging that will always matter most. That is reality.
