To adress the debate of modern society being to materialistic, I would like to present a few key points to address my own opionons and thoughts. Comeing from someone who is somehwat in the middle of the debate, lets see how many of us agree or disagree with the following aformentioned points.

Many people feel that there own personal success is measured by there weath and posetions when compered to others around them.
This I believe is an inherited human trait that differs from when we where hunter/gathers. Instead of only purchasing things that are essential for human survival, we tend to want to buy things we do not actually need for a multitude of reasons, but one main reason is because people get bored of things and need something else to replace that feeling that the previous object gave them.
A good example of this is someone buying a car, only to get another car soon after because once the newness wares off, people are always seeking more. 

Another point of people buying things they dont actuall need is buying a new phone even when the phone you have is still good, but to feel like you fit in with everyone else around you as not wanting people to view you as less successful because you do not have the latest phone. People value possions over neccesity, and in most cases are willing to buy name brand things that are more expensive then alternatives based on recognition. Materialisim in people drives us to want things we do not need, and always want the most popular products despite the neccesity. 

It is however important to feel rewarded for your hard work, so I belive in some cases being materialistic can be positive. For instance, the keyboard im using now is a fairly expensive keyboard that I purchased because I wanted it. It is a name brand keyboard popular with alot of PC gamers. Though not a necesity, having things you like can be a positive encouragement to continue working harder.

In closing, I believe most people are very unecisarrily materialistic, and should not focus so much attention on material objects as they should personal sucess and life expiriances. I also agree that there are some benifits to having nice things, and we should be fortunate and value the things we do have over what other people think. People want to have nice things and feel that they have accomplished sucess which is what I belive drives society to be materialistic and spend money on things that are unesicary. So should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? I believe we should, but also should not as it is what drives improvemnet, inovation and new products to be made that help us as a society.   
