Stuff--chances are, you've got too much of it: old Christmas decorations in the attic, that jacket that belonged to Uncle Joe, but that no one has worn since 1982, every last one of your Backstreet Boys CDs from when you were 8 and obsessed with Nick Carter. You may have asked yourself, wiping the sweat from your brow during your latest spring cleaning effort, "Why do I keep all this stuff?" The question we should be asking is: Why do we buy all this stuff in the first place? Better still: How has all this junk impacted human society?

Prior to the Industrial Revolution, objects and clothing were made by hand, painstakingly carved out or forged or woven using tools and techniques that had hardly changed since the Iron Age. All of that time and manual labor, combined with the cost and scarceness of materials, made objects precious as well as valuable. Clothing has handed down through the generations, being made over and over and over, not out of sentimentality, but out of necessity. Cloth was costly and there was no sense in buying something new if a perfectly good piece could be cut down. 

This all changed with the advent of mechanized manufacturing. Products and outfits could be churned out by the dozen, making them cheaper and more accessible to the average person. Throughout the Victorian age, the burgeoning middle class sought to display their newfound wealth by loading their parlors with knickknacks, tchachkis, photographs, and sumptuous printed fabrics. Since then, human life in the Western world has largely revolved around purchasing, and holding onto, objects, clothing and labor-saving devices. 

This habit of collecting, storing, and buying more has damaged our wallets, our environment, and our psyches. Purchasing material items, especially as a way to keep up appearances among our peers, has ended up costing us a pretty penny. The average American is thousands of dollars in debt to credit card companies, vehicle financing companies, mortgage lenders--all because of our desire to have the designer shoes, the luxury cars, the latest electronics, the biggest houses. This materialism has prevented many a person from pursuing their non-tangible dreams, such as traveling, owning a home, or saving for their childrens' college educations. 

The constant consumption of materical goods has also devastated the natural environment. We mine the Earth into a wasteland, many times with unethically sourced labor, for raw materials to create these products, only to end up tossing them into the landfill a year or two later so we can buy the latest and greatest edition. 

Finally, the fact that we hinge our happiness on having the best stuff prevents us from finding long-term satisfaction with our lives. When we buy that new iPhone or pair of shoes our favorite influencers are endorsing, our brain releases dopamine--a chemical that makes us feel elated. But, once that dopamine has worn off, we're in search of the next (not-so-cheap) thrill.

Contemporary society's dependence on tangible things is preventing us from being truly happy. We work long, hard hours to purchase objects that we will only throw away. Rather than create more fodder for the landfill, we should spend our hard-earned cash on experiences that will last a lifetime.
