In your day to day life you often are exposed to many images and impressions. I believe that what we are exposed to in said images and impressions effect us too much and therefore skew our judgement. For example in advertisements they lead you to believe that you are getting this great product just by looks and the image they paint. Another way is in the media. Celebrities and influencers even politicians are painted certain ways and made to seem great and to convince you they are. Though we know that these things cannot always be true and that their must be deceptions and theyre usually is. Though it is usually too late.

Getting into the advertisement aspect of this. Many people and even myself have fallen prey to flashy advertisments making things seem grand and exciting. Shortly after buying said thing you find out the truth. This truth being that all the hype was for a medicocre product. This problem isnt always the case, but there is many times where it is. Sometimes in cases where it is present i'ts too late to get your money back and now youre stuck with something that you did not expect or want in its unsatosfactory quality.

People with media coverage celebrites, influencers, and especially politicians are known for this aswell. You may have experienced this when voting for someone even. It's common that a politician promises one thing and acts as if they are gonna make this big change. We get the impression that theyre this great person who cares and then we are shown the complete opposite. That is usually the game when it comes to these type of impactful people they just want to seem likable, so they can gain power, money, recognition, etc. There is cases where these people are geniune and they can hold to their promises, but more likely than not it's pure manipulation. 

The name of the game of getting you to like something or someone is all about image and impression. That's how people profit and live. That's how they get you to invest in a product or even their likeness. People are usually enticed and entranced by extravagant images and heartwarming impressions. I believe that what we are exposed to in said images and impressions effect us too much and therefore skew our judgement. Think about all the times you or someone you know has been tricked and deceived by clever advertising or campaigns. Wouldnt you agree people fall foolishy into these illusions all the time?
