Success throughout human history has been achieved by both competition and cooperation. In every environment, there is likely a mix of both elements at play in order to product results. From jobs to schools to life at home, both competition and cooperation are likely present. On the subject of which achieves more, I would lean towards cooperation achieving more success than competition from my personal experience. 

Virtually every environment generally has far more elements of cooperation than competition. Cooperation is default and necessary in work, school, home and elsewhere. Not a single company with more than one employee can function without cooperation. Schools are also inherently cooperative since you have to learn materials from teachers in a class full of other students doing the same. At home, it is often necessary to cooperate with family to do laundry, clean the house, prepare food, and what not. 

There are also many instances where competition would not help you in any way within a classroom or in a job environment. Being competitive instead of cooperative during a work project could be very detrimental to the work project itself. This could lead to sabotage, harm productivity, damage group synergy and ultimately create a very toxic work environment. Each individual tend to have different ideas and information they could bring to the table if they were to cooperate instead of compete. All these examples definitely apply to life at home as well. A toxic atmosphere where too much competition exist between two family members could lead to an intensely hostile environment where the two fight all the time. 

With all that said, competition does have some merit as long as it is a healthy type of competition that doesn't involve backstabbing or developing a toxic work environment. Two rivals at work or school could push each other to new levels. Their work quality and productivity should improve solely due to the respective competition. Established competitive events generally brings the best of out people and acts as a showcase of human ability. Doing better than others is something many have strived for and it helps push our limits to be the best that we can be. 

Overall, I would maintain that both competition and cooperation have their place in human society. Cooperation, however, is more dominant and useful as seen throughout the job, school and home environments. Humans have evolved to cooperate in order to survive and today is no different. Cooperation is more prevalent than competition for good reason. 
