 "Things are not always as they appear ."- a famous saying from someone in histroy. This is not just a saying though, is it? This is unfortunately a way of life in todays society. Everyone is trying to be something they are not. The media is portraying things that are not 100% factual. Everywhere you look in today's society nothing is as it seems.

The news, for instance, only shows what gives off good ratings. What is that you may ask? Fear. Just watch your local news channel; I guarantee the stories that cause fear far outnumber the ones that spark joy. Unfortunately, this is not what the world is truly like, but that wouldn't give them good ratings.

That takes us to the commercials during those news broadcasts. Always selling the next best thing that works better than what you have. Does it really though? Between all the flashy slogans and and pretty colors, a broom is just a broom. No wait! Kim Kardiashian uses this new broom! They got you now, star power always sells. I hate to break it to you, Kim Kardashian does not sweep her own house. Once again, that broom is just like your broom only more expensive because it is in purple and Kim Kardashian is in the commercial. 

That brings me to the next topic, entertainers. Actually, I should say what passes as entertainers in todays age. "Reality" television stars are all the rage. Again, whose reality are they portraying. Stars like the Kardashians are not "real". Their show is not reality; its scripted. Once again, another fascade out their to numb the masses.

Everything around us is not what it seems. From advertisements to televsion programming. Everything is changed or manipulated to get the emotional response needed to either sell a product, get a rating, and/or promote a person or team. Keep both eyes open when looking at what is put on display. Look through the corny lines and quriky lines. Don't get duped by the propaganda, be always objective. Remember, here comes another famous line from another famous someone, 'there is always more than meets the eye."
