   Charles Schulz famously said "happiness is a warm puppy". Though simple, this quote does hint at the idea that we can gain happiness through relationships with others. We are happiest when we can help and bring joy to others. Focusing only on ones personal goals and desires will never allow one to experience the full range of happiness that comes from bonding with others.
   Volunteering or working to improve society is one way to make yourself happy. Though an action like working at a food bank may not have a direct personal benefit it does allow you to improve the lives of others and recognize your place in your community. Spreading kindness and generosity allows for your own happiness to be multiplied by the happiness of all those you assist. Additionally, the social bonds facilitated by working in your community are important to happiness. As Emile Durkheim's research on social ties shows, people are happiest when they have strong relationships and onds within a community. Lacking ties to others leads to anomie, a disconnection that can have profoundly negative impacts on ones psyche.
   Some would argue that focusing on your individual success is the key to happiness. Philosophers like Ayn Rand praise the virtue of selfishness, claiming that it is the most ethical and correct way to live. A similar ethos can be seen in the modern pop-philosophies of wellness and self-care. Some believe that securing your own happiness should be the key goal at all times. They argue that setting boundaries, focusing on yourself, and doing whatever you need to feel good are key ways to live. Others should always be secondary to your own pursuit of happiness.
  This focus on self-interest has positive aspects but has swung too far in a hedonistic and selfish direction. The Kantian view of this problem is illuminating: what if everyone in society were to behave purely in their own self-interest? Generosity, loyalty, love--all cast to the side and with them, they relationships and social bonds they accompany. Society fails to function if we are not in some ways looking out for one another. 
  There is no need to live the life of the ascetic and disregard all personal desires and goals but one must think of others if they are to be truly happy. Our lives are filled with examples of the benefits of including others in our joy. Is a single piece of cake ever as good as slicing into a birthday cake after blowing out candles with friends? Do we not revel in the anticipation of watching a loved one open a gift you carefully chose for them? As Schulz realized with his warm puppy, oftentimes the easiest way to experience happiness is simply by spending time with someone you care about, human or even animal.
   
