Our society favors looks over information/function. The truth can be ugly and this is a problem. People do not want to see ugly things. People would rather look at what is pleasant, rather than what is realistic.

This becomes detrimental in a number of ways. The most qualified leader for example may not be elected because he does not 'look' the part. The underqualified or even incompetant contender may win out because he is better looking. This can have profound consequences. Another example is social media, women and men to a degree are convinced they are ugly or different because they do not meet the examples given in social media. These unrealistic images and impressions are a standard that most can not meet. This effects self esteem and self worth. People are willing to change themselves drastically in order to conform to unrealistic images that they believe they are meant to look like. These images are not realistic. Perhaps if a filter is used it should come with a watermark. Another issue that arises is that more and more people will conform to the image or impression of what is beautiful. This leads to decreased diversity. Individuals should be praised for their uniqueness. All of this is leading to people that look good, but they lack anything deeper. They have the image they desire, but they did not work on anything else about themself. In the case of products it could mean the product looks great but it's functions underperform. 

It could be argued that a standard of beauty or a standardization is a good thing. People will know what to expect. This is flawed because not everyone can become the standard. If everyone is the standard then the world would become a boring place. In terms of products this leads to increased waste and decreased functionality in order to appeal to how it looks.

People should focus on what matters as oppossed to what simply looks good. While looks are important they are not the only factor. We should embrace the individual and that person's own unique features. When it comes to our leaders looks should not be important. We cannot solve our problems by looking good. In terms of products, is the product worth anything if it simply looks good and provides none of the functions it needs to do? We would do well to remember that looks are not everything, and that if we all conform to the same standardizations the world will become a boring place. 



