Advertisements can play trick on us in ways that are not aways obvious. These advertisements happen all around us, not necessarily on television or online. These advertisements can happen from the people see meet or political aspirants who want to gain your vote. With the emergence of non-traditional media, especially social media, the extent to which these political aspirants want to convey how they are perceived can ultimately have electoral impact that may be detrimental to society. In short, the fakeness of an individual running for office focused on the superficial, on things that are popular but not necessarily good for society, can take shape in our political discourse that then becomes divisive. The outcome, as we have seen since the election of Donald Trump, could have a damaging effect that is hard to turn around. In fact, the outcome could be everlasting over many generations.

The question one could ask in a nation of representative politics is whether such openness to debate and argue, regardless of the danger the topics of disagreement, is inherent in democratic societies. The key difference in this era is the manner in which social media has an omnipresent ability to shape people's opinions in ways that has permanence. Because it is easy to find like-minded individuals online by the stroke of a key in the 21st century, opinions, however badly conceived, can not only take root but also grow to shape the minds of others through social media's ability to amplify ideas.

Perhaps the potential to divide peoples through ideas is inexorable in nations where freedom of thoughts is its foundation. Certainly, one could make that argument because that is the way our Founding Fathers created this nation called the United States of America. One often uses that same argument for other public policy matters like the second amendment of gun rights. 

However, one could also make the argument that when the Founding Fathers created America, they did not know that in the 21st century, artificial intelligence -- not human intelligence -- would play a growing role in everyday functions in people's lives. They also weren't aware of the ways in which politics could become so warped by money, redistricting of neighborhoods, and the lies some political aspirants tell to win elections.
