    How many items do you own? I know. If you're anything like me, that's likely an impossible answer to give off the top of your head. But in some cultures, that answer would come as easy as asking "What's your name?". Materialism is a word that often comes with a negative connotation. It brings to mind thoughts of greed or gluttony. But just how bad is materialism for you as an individual?

    Prior to the industrial revolution, the concept of materialsm simply wasn't a thing. Before automation, people often had very few items compared to what we have in the modern day. Their lives were a lot simpler as a result. Back then, the time we spend playing with our gadgets and gizmos likely would've been spent either working, or bonding with your family or the Lord through spiritual means. You may be wondering why I'm giving you an impromptu history lesson. Well, I believe the root cause of materialism was the result of the industrial revolution. Astronomical increases in production means lead to an explosion of products available to purchase, as well as decreased the cost of said products. This would allow traditionally poorer folks who missed out on the more luxurious thing could realistically own them. So we've gone from only having basic items for living to the plethora of stores that sell hundreds of thousands of individual things. However, despite their availability, some cultures of people do adhere to the tradition of getting by with less.

     My immediate thought of people like this are traditional eastern religious communities as well as the Amish here in the west. Hindu and Buddhist teachings frown upon rampant consumerism, and it is thought that living by more humble means makes you...well a more humble person. Makes sense, right? And for the Amish, they follow a strict set of old Christian beliefs that decry modern machines (although they have been known to make certain exceptions). They believe that materialism is a sin and is a affront to the Lord. These two groups likely frown upon the average lifestyle of a modern Western person. But is that contempt justified?

    Of course topics like these are somewhat polarizing, and this paper contains only my personal thoughts based on my limited research into groups that prefer traditional living. To me, it seems that their views on materialism stem from spiritual purposes. It is important to consider, I think, that there are many different religions and cultures that all have individual apporaches to topics such as this, and of course the people who don't adhere to any particular belief system at all. Ask an atheist about materialism, and I doubt you'd hear much fuss on the topic from them. Certain subsets of religions seem to embrace the wonders of technology, and view it as a tool to more effectively practice their faith. So, to answer the core question, I think whether our propensity to accumulate material goods is a good or bad thing is entirely subjective based on who you ask. Me personally, I think balance is key with everything. It's fine to enjoy your possessions as you see fit, but overindulgence of anything can be detrimental to you, pshyically or otherwise. Maybe you agree with me. Maybe you think the opposite. But, opinions are like rear-ends; everybody has one, and everyones is just as valid. :)
