The ability to persuade people to purchase a product, or be swayed by speech, has always played a significant role in marketing. Billions of advertising dollars are spent annually to convince the viewer that the product is desirable and is essential. Here in America, many companies have resorted to creative packaging to lure buyers into purchasing their products, even if the products tend to unhealthy and undesirable. Soda companies spend billions of dollars to convince you to consume their sugar-laden drinks, despite mounting evidence of the health implications and the increase in diabetes in younger adults.

There has always been a divide between reality and perception, and the ease of persuading and motivating as a form of art. The former CEO, and late founder of Apple was once described as someone who had the ability to persuade the masses to purchase its products due to his "reality distortion field." Politicians at times are able to persuade many of their constituents and voters to make unwise or uninformed decisions at the ballot box. The impact of marketing can be helpful and useful, or it may be used for maliciously. It may be up to the consumer to ultimately decide what is appropriate in any given situation.

Images and impressions are important in informing the viewers and public about products the one may find useful. Politicians may used their platform to convince others that what they say is important and newsworthy. The ability to persuade and influence could also be seen as a form of propaganda or a form of viral marketing campaign. Again, it depends on its usage and how it is being used in certain context to sell goods and services, or if its used to cause harm. Any person with a platform has a responsibility to ensure that they use that platform for good. In the case of a company like Apple, they believe not in making profits as a goal but a byproduct of designing the world's most creative products and services. Most politicians and entertainers see their role as contibuting to society as a positive.
