We are living in an age of vivid, devious marketing; an age where politics feels often like reality television, where reality television merges into our politics. Technology has so oversaturated our lives that advertising is impossible, it feels, to escape; billboards loom above our freeways and our online social networks are peppered with hypertailored ads, all deciding their own truths. 
This is all true. And this state of things has negative impacts: disinformation runs rampant, politicans escape scrutiny, and people are tricked into scams, into support of fast-fashion and unethical supply chains. But it would be a mistake to blame these failings in our society on images themselves or the fundamentally human experience of being swayed (of being gripped by emotion) by a powerful image. In this essay, I will propose that it is not images themselves, or the masses, that are the issue, but the modern capitalist landscape (that has indeed forced me onto mturk to fill out your survey for money). 
First, let us consider several points raised in this prompt, which lays out a few of the possible problems with the idea that "images and impressions" may make too much of an impact on the public. The evidence provided to us, here, is that for politicians, image has become more important than their qualifications, their actual politics; and that advertisements are often deceiving, perhaps leading people to buy phony, defective, or otherwise problematic products.  These are correct observations about our modern world, yes; I would myself argue that these trends are indicative of a broad, systemic sort of problem. We agree on that point; let us put a pin on this, then, for now.
These are features of our modern world. Are they a result of images having "too much of an effect on people" as you ask here? That is the next question we must address. Let's think back to history; to what we know of images and their impact. I think it's fair to say that images have, as long as they have existed, wielded power. Whether thinking back to the gold coins bearing the face of Roman emperors or of the great masterpieces of art, or more recently, iconic photographs that have changed our understandings of war, of poverty, and of famine, the idea that images affect their viewers is -- quite honestly -- a fairly boring observation. It says little about anything, in my mind. Across societies, centuries, and state lines, images have always carried impact. Unless you are arguing that the idea that images are affecting is some grand flaw of humanity (a stupid argument), I think we can set it aside.
The real question is -- by what mechanism does an image carry impact? What understanding of the world does it provoke in its viewer, and how did the viewer come to that understanding? Who is charged with the production of images? I.e., who controls and distributes the images; do workers or the masses have control over the means of image production? 
Walter Benjamin raises these questions in his seminal work, "Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction," (which I think is the correct citation here I am going off memory) in which he explains how modern technology (and the mode of production of a work of art/photograph) impacts its nature and its political role in society. Benjamin understood, as I am arguing here, that while an image/work of art itself might have a unique sort of aura, all depends on how it is disseminated (and by who). 
Thus in answer to your question here, I would argue that the features of modern imagery (and politics as imagery) are  in fact features of a society dominated by corporate control and a political elite that is bound to the corporate class which pays for their campaigns. This is a pretty obvious answer, in my mind: advertisements as they exist in the modern United States for example are not a function of image/impression but of the state of capitalism and markets here. Their effect on us is thus not an example of imagery's effect but of the power of those who create the advertisements and how widely they are able to distribute them. They are also based on the existence of scarcity and market logic. Imagine, for example, the image of a hamburger. If you are hungry, the image of a burger has a different impact than it does on one who is fed (and still a different impact on one who lives outside of modern factory farming and supply chains; or some medieval peasant who had never seen the image of a hamburger in his life and thus has no cultural association with a hamburger as we do in the U.S.).
What do we do with this conclusion? There are ways we can struggle to change modes of image production and take them back for ourselves. And there are ways we can take advantage of the power of images to advance causes for working people. I would argue, finally, that it is not the fact that images make an impact that is problematic but what impact they are having. There is power, for instance, in propaganda -- if it is propaganda made by a collective, advancing a common, productive cause, it can be an important tool to make people aware (perhaps of the power of other images controlled by the corporate elite). In fact, our only hope at this point may, in fact, be in images; may be in our power to rally people to a cause through nothing more than a pen and paper; and that thought gives me hope. 
--
If you have qs about this essay let me know - I really did write it in 30 min according to the instructions. 
