Images and impressions. What does that mean exactly? How is it that our complex, wonderful brains could be manipulated by simple images and the impresssions adverts thrust upon us? Our cluttered world affects us regardless of our involvement and intentions.

Imagine you visit your favorite store as Christmas approaches. Envision the wrapped boxes and oversized bows. Maybe give yourself a break and don't imagine the Christmas music, but all the counters and displays are red and gold. Bedazzled and shining with holiday spirit!

We 'feel' the holiday spirit. This not-quite-subtle manipulation is employed as a method of getting us to spend more money. It's the holiday season. Why not express your love and appreciation with material goods? Just like everyone else and all the happy people in the advertisements we see, hear, and read. If a store and advertisers can deploy these machinations in effort to loosen our hold on cash; why would they not use these same techniques to promote people?

This current election season is rife with attack ads. It is nothing new. In my broadcast area it is people attacking Dr. Oz over his alledged abortion stance. I had no idea Dr. Oz was a candidate or even had a politcal career! I did not know his stance on the subject. I had no reason to possess this knowledge or to own a reaction to it. I do now because of the attack ads playing during the nightly news as our damnable propensity for curiousity as a species drew me into the subject.  

Many people, myself inlcuded, like to think they are too smart to be a tool of that system. Unfortunately, any publicity is good publicity. Looking for data on the internet to refute a claim, or understand a candidates actual positions and personal qoutes on the matter, from a political ad still increases the search relevancy for the people involved. The advertisers successfully increased the brand of the canditates involved in that ad despite the fact that I don't even live in their voting districts. 

Simple fact is that the manipulative advertising tactics employed through images and impresses do work. For better or for worse, someone will be impressed negatively or positively and the end result is an overall increase in awareness of a candidate or material good. I've never bought insurance through Geico, perhaps you have, but we all know the mascot is a gecko. 

We know state farm is there. I know Dr. Oz's stance on abortion. I don't particularly care about these things; insurance companies and politcal candidates which don't represent me but the machine works and they are stored in the mess of grey matter which can't help but track and interact with catchy jingles and controversial topics. The method simply works because we can't help ourselves. 





