The ancient Philosopher Parmenides considered that believing in things that do not exist was false. Later, the philosopher Socrates considered that it was unacceptable to know the truth and not tell others. Still later, the God-man recommended judging "Not by appearances, but [righteous judgements]" (The Bible) And yet, through history, as many, or more famous and respected persons, from Protagoras to Machiavelli, have recommended exactly the contrary. According to these persons, what really matters is what seems real to the majority of the crowd. 

This position is by no means tenable. In fact, Truth needs nobody to defend it, as it defends itself. And, anyone who doesn't accept simple truth, won't be convinced by any argument. But maybe some people are in doubt, and hover between truth and fiction, or near the chasm that separates them. For such people, I will make an argument, that what seems to be true is by no means a guide to life, and always has too much of an effect on people, as long as they see it as such. Images and impressions have always had too much of an effect on people, and no person or society will every be truly free unless they fling them off.

Human beings find their freedom in one thing alone: truth. In small ways, we can see this quite clearly: when I know something, I can guide my course rightly as regards that thing, and I am thereby free to decide which way to go. For example, if I know how to properly use a map, I can guide myself to Macdonalds, and eat a burger. My knowledge of the truth of how a map works, frees me to choose to get a big mac. To give a better example, If I know the truth that my friend Bob doesn't really wish the best for me, I can protect myself from his betrayal; thereby freeing myself from the constraints of having my plans sabotaged by Bob. These examples pertain to truth with a small "t" but they can also be extrapolated to conclude that the same thing happens in truth with a big "T". If i know the truth about ultimate matters, then I can make ultimate determinations. If I know that the human soul is made for truth, then I can determine to live with a clear conscience, and anticipate that my soul will be eternally happy; because I also know that truth is eternal, and therefore if I am made for it, I must also be meant for eternity.

Contrary to Truth and truth, are lies. These come in many forms, but the most prevalent is that which is accidental; that is impressions and images. These are often not the product of malice, but of carelessness on the part of the crowd. But nonetheless they are not true. If one relies on them, what results? Machiavelli and his lot would suggest to us that we ought to seek for that which everyone praises: power, and honor before others, and the exterior appearances that allow one to "succeed" in life. But, what is the result of this? Firstly, what if one does get them, and convinces other people of his success? As soon as the breeze blows the other way, the whole crowd will betray him. Examples abound. One day, people loved Mr. Cuomo. The next day, every news station scorned him. Not to consider them equal, but the same happened to Christ: On palm Sunday, they sang Hosanna and welcomed him into the city. a week later they crucified and spat upon him. To rely on the impressions of other people is to rely on the wind.

Those who disagree will say that we must practice some kind of "Realpolitik": this is the real world, not a platonic ideal, and we must simply do whatever works. They will tell us that lying to others and putting on a show allows one to reach the top of society and maintain his place. They will tell us that the power thus acquired will allow that one to do good, and that only lack of skill would cause his downfall.

But this completely turns upside-down the purpose of the human being! What they advocate is the complete sale of the soul; they consider the ideal man to be really, a demon. When they say that lack of skill would cause his downfall, they really mean: lack of skill in deceit. And what kind of good can one do, if one must maintain his position of power by continually decieving others?

Will the "good" that power allows really make up for the continual outpouring of lies that twist and distort the world, and oppress the freedom of those who are below this ideal person? There is a name for this sort of vision: It is, simply, "tyranny".

There are only really two ways to see reality: Either one sees and strives for the truth, or one forever wallows in lies. Take your pick.
