What is happiness and how may we find it?  This is a question asked by many throughout their lives.  Some believe that happiness is found through their own self discovery and personal goals while others believe that happiness is found along the way while helping others and improving factors in their environment that benefit humanity overall.  I personally believe the latter position.  Throughout my life and my experiences I have found happiness while helping others.

When I was a child in elementary school, there was another student who I was friends with that never brought a snack for snack time.  I often wondered why this was the case, surely they are hungry at snack time?  After getting to know her and speaking with her I discovered that her family simply couldn't afford to spend the money on snacks as they financially were in a position of poverty.  This made me incredibly sad for her and her family.  I knew she must be hungry and needed a snack to help her get through her day, just like I did.  Soon, I started sharing my snack with her.  After than, I mentioned to my mother what was going on and she began sending an extra snack to school with me to share with my friend.  My friend was absolutely delighted and found joy in being able to have a snack like all the other children and as a result our friendship grew even stronger.  It warmed my heart that I could do such a small thing to help someone else and through that experience I discovered even as a child that I found my sense of happiness through helping others.

My want to help others continued when I was a teenager and was working on a project through my church.  We had a Girls in Action group that met every Wednesday evening and after Bible study, we would often work on a service project.  One service project that particularly stands out to me is when we visited with senoirs in a local senoir care and nursing home facility.  Many residents were bound to their wheelchairs or beds and had severely limited mobility.  We took them small gifts that we had collected from other church members and a few handmade crafts we had made them including greeting cards.  We spent time with the residents and gave them our gifts.  The pure joy that exuded from their faces was amazing.  Many of them were low income and had little to no family that would come visit them so the fact that we brought them a few small gifts and simply spent time with them meant the world to them.  Their happiness radiated from themselves and became contagious.  I was so happy that I could make someone else feel happiness.

As I grew into adulthood my want to help others continued to grow.  I have volunteered for various organizations, my heart is specifically drawn to helping women and children.  I have worked in a domestic violence center where women came, often times with children, to escape abusive relationships.  Some of them literally left their homes with nothing.  No clothes, no personal care products, absolutely nothing.  This oftentimes meant that their children had to leave their toys behind as well.  My team and I provided the children with toys and plush animals to serve as their friends while they were at the shelter.  The shear joy on the children's faces to see that they had a plush friend to help comfort them through the most difficult time they had gone through was priceless.  There was hope in an otherwise hopeless situation.  I was once again reminded why my happiness comes from helping others and providing them with a small glimmer of happiness and comfort in a not so great situation.

Throughout my life I have repeatedly been able to find happiness through the process of helping others and providing small things to them which I receive an even greater gift.  Through simple things like sharing a snack with a friend, spending time with an elderly person and assisting women and children in need, I have found a great deal of joy and happiness.  It is my hope that everyone tries to provide a little chairty and comfort to their fellow humans.  Just as other's may be in need, we are in need to find our answer to where we may find happiness.  It turns out that we may just find it through the service of others.

