Success can be measured in many ways and is also percived differently by different people. Some people define success as living a humble life while others feel it is defined as being wealthy or famous. It is also true that different people have differing opinons on obtaining success. Some feel that competition helps motivate people to be sucessful however, I believe that more success is achieved by cooperation. In this essay I will will talk about how cooperation and community is stronger than the power of competition, and why cooperation is more effective because it doesnt present the same pitfalls that competion does. 

Since man first exisited cooperation has been an important part of our development and has allowed humans to reach higher levels of success than would ever be possible alone. The tribes that the first people formed were used to help them survive the dangers of the world around them by cooperating and building a community where some people had certain strengths that others did not. This overall made them stronger where one person is not able to do everything a group with differing skills is able to complete a whole lot more.  

While competition is a good thing sometimes, I believe that it has some drawbacks especially if taken to far. One of the largest drawbacks is that it can lead to resentment and to a point were some peopl become so competitive that they loose sight of their true goal and feel the need to attack their competitors directly. It can also create a sense of arrogance in the overly competitive that can make them be percieved as less pleasurable to be around. 

It for these two reasons that I belive cooperation leads to more success overall that competition. Cooperation allow us to build communities that provide access to greater skills and resorces. While competition is still important, it can lead to a toxic enviroment. It is more important for us to have communities and groups that help us reach greater success and our true potential. 






