Materialism has been a huge aspect of today's society for quite some time now. How often do you hear someone say that you do not need to buy that! Or you should spend your money more wisely! Do we really need as much as we buy? Is it important to do things that bring us joy even if this joy is fleeting? I think it is. In the long run our own materialism does not negatively effect anyone but ourselves. There are few things in life that garner happiness and if people find happiness in buying shoes or collectibles or the newest iPhone then I say let them do this. 
Often, the most materialistic people have the most money. They usually have fancy jobs with fancy titles or just from dumb luck have more money than the rest of us. We always see stories about the Kardashians or any other famous celebrity being criticized for having sixteen luxury cars and still buying more, or for having a collection of 300+ handbags. So many insanely rich people have the worst issues with materialism. However, that is not always the case. I, myself, at times can be very materialistic and I by no means have an excess of money. Many people feel the same way and I think this goes to show that being materialistic over the years has became sort of a lifestyle or habit rather than just something only certain individuals love to indulge in. 
I will admit that society's consumption and production of meaningless items has been and will be an issue for the foreseeable future. Landfills all over the world are overrun as it is. I feel as in this sense then yes society should be criticized and we should all make better decisions when it comes to our spending habits. However, like mentioned previously, life is fleeting, and often times it can be full of misery for many. If someone such as myself genuinely feels as if buying the latest handbag might bring them some amount of joy then let them be. Especially when it comes down to people in society who often can not even afford to treat themselves often.
Instead we should focus our efforts on making more and more items out of recyleable materials or making it where recycling things is more common. Materialism will more than likely never go out of style but the way we get rid of these items can be changed and improved upon. 
In conclusion, in certain aspects yes criticizing society for being materialistic can be needed but overrall I do not think it will make much difference. Leave people be and let them do what makes them happy!
There is nothing wrong with being materialistic to an extent. If anything I think it makes us appreciate life and the little things a bit more. 
