Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others?



That is the question this token essay will attempt to answer.  That is a fantastic question, and the answer depends on exactly where someone is in life at the moment.  So after negating the very question itself (which is an ideal trait of a philosopher who contemplates life) I will answer, with qualification, that one is more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others.


What are the qualifications to that statement?  Humans are a social species, who can live in harmony or disharmony with those around them.   It is the actions of people around you who will largely determine if you live a pleasant life or not.  An individual person is rarely more powerful than the bulk of those around her or him, and it is the whims of the crowds, or ones neighbors, or boss, that usually determines if someone is having a good time or not.


Perhaps one believes that if one becomes an excellent fighter or exceedingly wealthy one can simply power their way through life.  An individual boxer might defeat another boxer in one on one combat.  However, no sane fighter would believe that they could take on three boxers of even average quality at once.   And any professional fighter would balk at the idea of taking on 7 untrained men, since a simple dogpile strategy would work each and every time.  


Some might believe that if one is exceptionally wealthy or is a powerful politician/general that they no longer have to worry about keeping those around them pleased or happy.  But merely looking at the history textbooks with the stories of selfish kings who were later disposed or removed from power shows that even if one is officially "at the top", they can be removed by votes of no confidence, or an exceedingly scorned wife. 

Keep those around you pleased, or at least not angered.   It matters not if you dislike that individual. For your own self interest, your goals are contingent on those around you. Your goals are not immune to being sabatoged by those who have been greatly angered.


Perhaps I have answered the primary question so far in accordance with not angering or making those around you exceptionally displeased rather than "happy".   I will argue that what I say is true if you take a sliding scale of happiness/displeasure.   



Now, there are some exceptions to the above, and they fit with Maslows Heirarchy of Needs.  Keeping others happy, if others are only happy if you are starving, does not work whatsoever.  If others are happy if you are injured, then you should be free to ignore the writhing mad crowds.     

But as long as the crowds happiness is not contingent on your displeasure, you should make a special focus on keeping them pleased.  Only after that should you focus on your own goals.  In Maslows Heirarchy of Needs, "good social relations" are placed at a larger base than "personal goal fulfillment".   And at the very bottom, or most important, are basic physiological functions such as getting enough food and sleep and warm shelter, which is reasonable.  I.E. as long as the crowds/neighbors happiness is not contingent upon you being a starving begger, keeping them happy is more important than writing that book, or that specialty cake, or getting that lift in the gym.




Keep em happy, or at least not angry, and then go about your business.





