Cooperation and competetion are both ways to achieve success, each with their own distinct advantages, however, I believe cooperation is a more productive way to achieve long term success that will benefit both or all parties involved.

I believe the biggest disadvantage of competing rather than cooperating is the negative feelings and associations it can build between all groups involved.  Particularly in today's society where it feels like even the leaders of our country who should be working together to benefit us all are incapable of doing so.  It leads to intense discontent between people as anyone who watches the news or peruses social media will see.  Cooperation should have the oppositve effect.  It should lead to more positive feelings between those involved as they all share a common goal and purpose.

In addition, working together should build relationships and a sense of comraderie as multiple factions pursue that common goal together.  This can often lead to more brainstorming and an increased ability to develop ideas together that become appreciated and respected by all those involved.  As they all work together they can also share in the ownership of ideas they generate.  In my opinion, people will produce better work, regardless of what kind of work they do, when they feel a sense of ownership and pride in what they produce.  This is a much more positive way to operate.

Lastly, I think competition can also stifle creativity.  In competition, essentially a person or team is simply trying to outdue their opponent.  Once they feel they've achieved that, they can lay off the gas, so to speak, and essentially end their progress.  However, with cooperation, people or teams will push forward until they've reached a consensus on their best effort and product.

Although competition comes natural to many people and can be a very motivating way to reach one's goals, cooperation between multiple people or groups will lead to a more sustainable long term success and will leave both parties feeling like they've achieved their goals in a positive manner.
