Modern society should absolutely be criticized for being materialistic.  While there are many aspects of materialism that are vital to our survival in our society, there are certainly many more who win out in the materialisim game and others who suffer.  Some major components that prove that materialisim should be investigated are the drain on our natural resources and its affect on our mental health.

Firstly, materialism is a major aspect of a capitalistic society.  It is a type of unsustainable consumerism practice that leads to using up naturual and energy resources to create capital.  While, large companies and corporations do well with said capital, individual consumers really benefit very little.  This cycle is enviornmentally unsustainable, since there are many natural resources that are definite.  For example, gas resources, trees and other minerals.  If these natural resources are used up, without active attempt to replace these resources, they will go away for all of humanity.  It is often obscured what companies/corporations use up natural resources at the expense of the rest of humanity, but it is a huge enviornmental threat to create material items at the expense of our sustainable resources as a human community.

Another major issue, is the use of manipulation tactics by companies for financial gain.  For example, companies have played on individual's insecurities to sell them items they might not need.  An example of this is dimond and razor companies.  There is no real cultural aspect guiding women to shave their legs or for dimaonds to be on rings, but companies designed campgains to make this a part of culture, so that people would consume their products.  In addition, these items do not do much for a human's basic needs.  If a human never used or owned a diamond or razor in their lifetime, they would be able to survive and function.  The actual products and items that are needed for survival, food, water, human connection are often times free or connected to the Earth in some way.  Companies try to find ways to package things for us and connect them to these natural needs and desires, a very common one is tapping into the human desire for connect, through selling things such as sex.  Some frequent commerical tropes are perfume and cologne ads, which have naked people running around, selling the idea that if you use the product, you will have a lot of human connection.  While this is not something that is explicitly stated, it is something indirectly sold to the consumer through the product.    

Some might say that materialism and capitalism is a fair and equal way to conduct government, but this is untrue, because many of the human aspects are lost in materialistic cultures.  For example, social media capitalizes on people presenting the "best versions" of themselves, but those who consume social media do not ever see people struggling or perservering.  This then gives less of a model for young people on how to create a life that feels genuine and real to them, and does not teach them how to struggle for things they value.  In this materialistic culture, values are replaced with things.  This can be seen in many societies with high materialistic culture seemingly having high rates of depression and anxiety.  It does not become easy for people to aquire these things.  They might try, work hard and do the things that society asks of them.  But they are always trying to reach a carrot that is out of their reach, to continue the cog of consumerism.  This leads to anxiety and depression, because happiness is always a little farther ahead and will never actually be reached.  The correlation between these items are interesting, as one would think materialistic aspects would in fact improve someone's life.  While buying things that people enjoy may to some extent lead to happiness, there is an aspect of self-awareness that is necessary for individuals to connect deeply to that happiness.  It seems to me that materialisim is just a short cut to that happiness, like a drug or other types of dopamine hacks that gives someone a short-term reward, but doesn't always connect or fulfill the human-desire/need as effectively as something else might.      

In conclusion, while it might be the current state of affiars in some societies to be focused on materialism, there are ways as a culture we can be self-aware of how these items are impacting us.  


