    People achieve more success by cooperation rather than competition. Competition is not really needed, it can help spark motives to push yourself to reach a goal but is unneeded. Cooperation is more important since it promotes healthy, helpful, and supportive teamwork than competition. 

    Competition isn't neccesiarily bad, but it can create negative competitive environment which can result in fighting with other workers or friends, stress that they'll reach a goal faster, and can make your goal take longer. These things won't automatically happen because of competition, but some people will do whatever it takes to achieve their goals, especially in a work enviroment. Stress can also have a huge toll on people in competition. They can focus too much on trying to be better than others that it can cost them a lot, like losing their job or losing a race. Competition will happen, but it doesn't need to be completely just rivalry. It can be friendly competition where at the end of a goal, like a tournament or employee of the month, you and everyone else will be fine with the outcome. 

     With cooperation, you aren't butting heads with each other and you don't need to stress about your skills or at work for your goals. Needing to constantly one up someone else or getting into fights is unnessecary when you can work together with other people. You can improve your own skills and learn new ideas from someone else while they receive the same from you. You can support one another and can even become friends. Cooperation can still drive you for important goals, just with support from your peers. Not everything can be done alone, which there isn't a problem with that, but cooperation can help if you are struggling with something that leads up to your goal.  

     Competition isn't bad, but we don't always need to go up against each other. We can work and improve together. Cooperation opens the door for more opportunities because you are working with other people and not against them. You can still have competition with other people, but it won't feel as defeating if you lose or haven't reach your goal. You have people to support you to get back up again and work harder.
