     It must be admitted that deep questions about the nature of happiness and how to attain it could never be satisfactorily resolved in the space of two or three hundred words. However, I think it can be demonstrated that a person's determination to build up and invest in other people, to attain happiness in community, will powerfully correlate to her own attainment of a personal fulfillment and a deep, personal gratifaction. Also, it will protect her in later years from the soul ache of guilty feelings and regret about the past.
     No happiness achieved at the expense of others will last. Even the most sociopathic and heartless among us will eventually find themselves in the clutches of conscience, of guilty feelings, of deep regret, for having propelled themselves toward their own happiness at the expense of other people. Even those who attain a temporary happiness will eventually descend into this unenviable state, tortured by guilt and wishing they had lived differently. How many people have muttered on their deathbeds the wish that they had exploited more people? Not many, I would imagine. 
   Likewise, no happiness achieved by a narrow focus on self - by a sustained ignoring of the happiness of others - will last. While a person might realize for himself a kind of happiness by focusing entirely on his own needs and desires, the reality is, once he catches even the faintest glimpse of a greater happiness, the happiness of someone surrounded by friends with whom was shared a mutual personal investment, a mutual encouragement, a mutual self-giving - that moment, the moment in which he sees a person awash with that deeper and more genuine kind of happiness, he will be stung, and bitterly, by the knowledge that his own happiness, the one he built by neglecting others in order to maintain a narrow focus on his own needs, is a pathetic sort of ersatz happiness, rather paltry when compared to the real thing. And just what is the real thing? It is a happiness built in community, a happiness that is shared, one attained and tasted only by people who invest in each other. The knockoff version of such a happiness may satisfy for a short time, but it will invariably result in regret. 
