One goal of almost every human being is to be happy in this life here on Earth. Happiness virtually always involves other people. Some people use others or manipulate them to make themselves happy, and some people make personal sacrifices to make others happy. But I believe that we are all happier when we are also making others happier.

There are many examples of wealthy, powerful people who ultimately commit suicide. Does this prove that possessions and power over others are not enough to make a person happy? It's not proof, but it is a kind of evidence. Often, these people continue to strive for more, more, more wealth and power. It seems to be never enough. Then others spend their days doing things for other people. Even little things can cause a smile and brighten another person's day. I know that, at least for me, that smile from another person is very rewarding.

Movies often focus on an underdog who eventually triumphs. As humans we tend to pull for the underdog - the mistreated or unpopular person who wins in the end. Tears of joy flow from the audience as freely as tears caused by a sad story. We are inspired by another person's triumph and happiness.

Not everyone agrees with this, of course. People buy lottery tickets because they think a lot of money will make them happy. Most aren't thinking of how they can help others, but what they can buy for themselves. People compete with others for a better job. People compete in sports to be the best, without regard for the other competitors happiness. They believe winning will make them happy.

I can only speak for myself, what I feel, and what I have observed in my life. I feel a thrill of happiness when I see someone else experience joy. I feel content and satisfied when I donate the little money I have to help a neighbor or a friend. I enjoy spending time with other people playing games or talking. I believe these little things we do with each other and for each other contributes to the happiness for us all. We might not have extravagant goals for making others happy, but we make them happy through our interactions. And we do receive happiness in return. 
