  Advertizing can come in all shapes, forms and methods with the only goal of capturing your attention and selling you the product. The product could be an idea or a physical item, perhaps both. Walk down any cereal aisle and look at the boxes with cute mascots, with no real clear picture of just how nutritional the actual cereal is. Listen to a presidential debate and then, whoever wins, go back  a year after they have been in office and see if their promises were upheld. There is a big chance they have not been. Of course, one can say it is necessary to get a consumers attention and that people should be wise to these tactics. However, many times these methods are subliminal or downright deceit. It is vital that you always pay attention to exactly what is on the inside, for as they say, never judge a book by its cover. 
  We have all seen them, the numerous commercials around dinner time with perfect burgers, cheesy pizza or piping hot comfort food in an effort to attract our wallets through our stomachs. What isn't shown though, is that flaming smoke isn't coming from the food but more than likely a smoking device in the background. In fact, those delicious meals might not even be edible rather made from plastic. Election promises are notorious as never actually being fulfilled, and with this case it is little control one can have over it as no matter what, someone will be elected and that person will come up short. Hair care products show women with long lustered hair, gliding like silk in the wind. They don't show you the guy in the background moving the hair or trick effect filters on the camera. Celebrities endorce these products in hopes to garnish attention. Well if so and so is using this, I can be just like them. Same with influencers, they are paid to endorce this. Anytime someone is paid to endorce, be skeptical. Numerous toy ads are seen around the holidays, attracting children to want something that looks so much fun. Advertisers sole purpose is to get into your wallet and bank account, and sadly, have very little off limits to achieve this. 
  Some might argue that it's just how things are, and that it is necessary to get a customer to buy what is being sold. That if they were to show the real deal it would take away from profit, or that maybe a president means what he promises but can't achieve it due to gridlock in Washington. I beg to differ. We have the better business bureau to make sure a company is held accountable if they refuse to fix a problem. In a restaurant if your food is undercooked you get a refund or replacement. Once a product or service is bought, you usually can get your money back or an apology if it is not what you were promised. Why can't this be applied before a product is purchased? Deceptive advertising is very common, but is bankrupt morally. There should come a time when consumers should be able to see exactly what they are buying, warts and all. 
  This leads me to the topic of why this happens. People are mostly aware of false advertising, yet they keep consuming. Why is this one can ask themselves? I believe it is because we want what we see to be true. We want this shiny new product or person to fix something for us, or to give us what we believe we deserve. If i just buy this product that Jennifer Aniston is selling, I can also look like her. We don't remember she is rich and can afford personal stylists and trainers. If we buy this shampoo we will look like her. This need to achieve what we don't think we have is why it works. We get a distorted view of what is important versus what we feel we need to have. 
  Elaborating on this concept of need versus want, we can lay partial blame on society itself. Money makes the world go round. So how do we earn this? For most in the free world this is through consumption. Companies will create a need from what really isn't one just so we fit in. They lie to you and make you believe that this is indeed something that you need to have if you want to be like the majority. In the 60s' this was blond hair. Hollywood sold Marilyn Monroe with catchy titles like Gentlemen Prefer Blonds. So then women of America felt that blond was indeed the most attractive hair color. So instead of seeing as the gimmick it was, consumers believed it was essential to their wellbeing to bleach their hair. Sometimes in society it even becomes something incorporated so strongly into life that people start to see it as a necessity. Like cars and computers, once luxery items for the very few, because something all households believe they need. 
  We can also see that online with the recent influx of influencers and 'models'. These popular people get money to advertize a product to their followers, often giving the product raving reviews. In reality, many times they don't even use the product and just sell it to get the money. These are the same people who they themselves are not representing themselves as reality, but as a brand and image. They achieve this by deceit, photoshop and filters. Young girls and boys strive to look like and act like their favorite content creators, when in reality they don't see them for what they really look like and act like or what their real circumstances are. 
  Perhaps one day, advertisers will be held accountable for their deception and have to depict their product as it really is. 
