Materialism. Few words in the English language capture quite as many dissenting opinions on a subject; short of politics, anyway. Materialism can be summed up as the desire to make more money to buy more things;  these days, it seems everyone loves getting the new iPhone, new car, or some other high tech gadget with questionable (at best) utility in our day to day lives. It's my belief that the constant chasing of new and shiny things is detrimental to our enjoyment of life and doesn't allow us to appreciate the small things that countless generations of humans before us have been able to enjoy and show gratitude for.

Throughout human history our ancestors managed to find gratitude for the smaller joys in life. A place to sleep, a belly full of food, a healthy family; All things that some would point out are still appreciated to this day, but is it to the same extent as it once was? 

John down the street has the brand new $100,000 SUV, Julia at work just got a $10,000 necklace from her husband for her anniversary and announces to the office she is leaving for the Bahamas on a surprise vacation next week. You're constantly bombarded by highlight reels on social media of people who may or may not be accurately portraying their lot in life, but it makes you feel inadequate just the same. It's no longer enough for most in the 1st world to truly appreciate how precious the small and arguably most important things in life are as the natural human inclination of envy tends to take over, putting us in a constant state of wanting more.

Some may point out that materialism has always existed since time immemorial. The caveman wanted the bigger cave, the prettier woman, the bigger club. But are these deeply ingrained human desires the same as the perpetual need for more that we experience today? I would argue no. The caveman who wanted the prettier woman was acting on the natural need to reproduce with the fittest of the species. He wanted the bigger club for protection against the neverending onslaught of threats in the pre-civilized, primitive world. Perhaps he didn't necessarily need the bigger cave, but it'd sure help his sanity not having to house his 12 cave children and (not particularly beautiful in comparison to Grog's from across the valley) cavewife in a space much too small!

So you don't have the newest iPhone, chances are you have a phone that can do essentially everything the latest model can. Same apps, same ability to call and text friends, things that couldn't have even been imagined 100 years ago. So maybe your model is lacking a couple megapixels in the camera department relative to the latest model. Does it really matter?

My message to anyone reading today is take a step back and appreciate everything you're blessed with. If you have your health, a roof to shelter you, and food in your pantry; you are exponentially better off than someone a stone's throw away from you. There are many studies which have asked questions to those on their death bed in regards to things they regret in life. Never do they answer that they regret working more to buy things. There's a message there, and the message is that we need to learn to appreciate the smaller things in life. Let go of the feelings of inadequacy and your endless need for new and shiny things, and learn to appreciate and identify the things around you that are truly priceless. 

It's been said that the odds of any one of us individually being born is 1 in 400 trillion. We've all been blessed with a gift far greater than many of us will ever realize. Do not let the treasures of the world distract you from the fact that you've been blessed with something far greater in value. Life.
