When it comes to success, cooperation trumps competion everytime. If you look at the most successful people in the world like Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk, Bill Gates,  and Francoise Bettencourt Meyers, they all have become successful because they decided to cooperate with others to help them achieve their goals. 

Cooperation is the superior method to achieve success, because it allows you to tap into many other resources, that might not be available to you if you only try to do it on your own. It also alows you to form bigger companies like when Facebook bought Instagram or Google bought Youtube, they were able to make their inital company not only bigger, but also infinitely more successful. Cooperation also gives you a bit of  buffer from failure because you always have someone to prop you up should you go through hard times and falter a bit. You can also use the resources of the those you are cooperating with to better your own products and make things that are more desirable for your end consumers.

While competition is important in challenging yourself to get better, being able to do it with others, makes you that much likely to succeed because as the saying goes, two heads are better than one and that is precisely what you get when you cooperate. By being ableto  pull your experiences together with someone else, you are better able to find unique solutions to problems that exist in the marketplace. If you just look at the music industry and how many songs are written by more than one person, it becomes very evident that cooperation is the better method for achieving success because you allow your idea to flourish by having more input into it. Also if you're writing a song and you get stuck. one of the other people you are writing the song with can pick up the slack and help get the song back on track. Cooperation between departments in the business world is also critical so that everyone is on the same page, like finance and sales, so that both groups can do their jobs to the best of their abilities. 

The biggest reason why cooperation is better than competition is because by cooperating, you by defacto, become more competitive in the landscape you are competing in, because you have more resources, experience, and ideas to pull from. There's a reason why movies aren't made by one person, and that's because it takes a lot of cooperation from various occupations to create a cohesive experience due to the complexities of each occupation. It's the difference between being on a powerplay in hockey and being on the defensive end of that powerplay where the team on the powerplay has more numbers and is able to put themselves in better scoring positions because they are better able to cooperate. 
