In the modern world, individuals are bombarded with many sights and sounds attempting to gain their attention.  Through multiple methods, images impact our daily lives.  As media has grown in the digital and internet age, individuals' self worth and spending habits have been affected.  The purpose of this essay is to explore two different ways these images may effect teenagers and adults today.

Teenagers today have pressures that many older people may have never imagined.  The constant presence of social and digital media including the effect of influencers promoting certain views, looks, and styles, often places undue pressures on youth.  The images online and in the media frequently only represent a fraction of the real life hiding behind the camera or computer.  However, this facade is not always readily apparent and young people may feel pressured to live up to a certain standard of perfection as modeled in these media settings.  This places an enormous burden on teenagers to live up to an unobtainable standard and may result in feelings of anxiety, depression, and poor self worth.  

In addition, adults can be negatively impacted by advertising and media influence, particularly in the arena of marketing.  Many individuals may be swayed by buy products simply based on packaging or claims made by brand representatives.  One has to cautiously interpret data available on media through a lens of self doubt and scientific inquiry in order to reveal what is true and what is simply utilized as a marketing tool.  In some ways, this seems manipulative of companies but is likely just the nature of doing business in a capitalist marketplace.  Businesses have their own challenge trying to catch the attention of an increasingly distracted and media-savvy public in a competitive market.  

In conclusion, images can negatively impact the lives of people today by promoting a false or confusing reality.  Teenagers and adults should consider the reality behind the screen before placing undue pressures upon themselves to live up to an unobtainable standard of perfection or purchase certain products.  

*END OF ESSAY*
I found it challenging to spend 30 continuous minutes writing this; this is a topic I feel I would need to research to have statistical data to back up my claims in an argumentative essay situation.  As an educated individual, I have written many essays  but they all involved significant research prior to writing.   However, thank you for the opportunity to participate in your study.  

