     Happiness can have many different meanings, depending on the person. Things that make one person happy do not always translate to happiness in others. Regardless of what makes an individual happy, people in general are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals rather than the happiness of others. An individual cannot be happy in life if he or she is unhappy with his or her self. Meeting personal goals increases confidence and happiness. A person cannot focus on the happiness of others while they are unhappy.
     A person cannot be happy in life if he or she is unhappy with him or her self. When spending time concerned with focusing on the happiness of others, a person is not focused on their own well-being. A person might spend the day volunteering to feed the homeless, but if he or she is not happy with themselves, the volunteering will not affect that feeling for the long term. The happiness achieved from volunteering is temporary. A person can ignore the fact that they are unhappy with themselves while they are pleasing others, but at the end of the day being unhappy with themselves will be the ultimate indicator of true happiness.
     Meeting personal goals increases confidence and, in turn, increases a person's happiness. Each time a personal goal is met, confidence increases. As confidence increases, happiness increases. For example, in the workplace one might have a personal goal of being the team leader. If he or she reaches that goal, his or her confidence will get a boost as will his or her happiness. Once you have met your personal goals, then you can focus on helping others. 
     In conclusion, happiness comes when people focus on their own personal goals. People cannot be happy if they are not happy with themselves. Meeting personal goals increases happiness. Helping others can give a short term feeling of happy, but this feeling is not long term. Happiness can be thought of in terms of the heirarchy of needs. Just like in the heirarchy, humans must have their basic needs, such as shelter and food, met before they move up the heirarchy to things such as learning. When dealing with happiness, people can not increase the happiness in others if they are unhappy. You can't please others while you are not pleased!
