From my childhood, growing up watching Ted "Million Dollar Man" DiBiase along with my brother or flipping past shows such as 'Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous' on television, I knew that some people place a LOT of value on money and wealth. And as I've grown into adulthood and heard stories of billionaires casually traveling to space despite not being astronauts, or witnessed shows such as 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians', I've noticed that this obsession with money and wealth has only increased -- to the point of ridiculousness in some cases. Thus, I do think that society in 2022 should be criticized for being materialistic.

If the obsession with wealth and materialism was limited to silly television shows, I might feel differently. But the fact of the matter is, these rich "one percenters" are constantly in the news and looked up to by a lot of people. I believe that their behavior has a direct effect on issues such as poverty and addiction; non-wealthy folks who consume the lavish lifestyles of these billionaires and celebrities desire to become wealthy themselves, and make foolish choices (such as gambling) in order to do so. Or they get a little taste of wealth and then they start living beyond their means. For some people, this results in turning to drugs -- i.e., to fit in with a "party" lifestyle and crowd (or, on the other side of the coin, due to frustration because they feel like failures for not being wealthy. Or because they could not keep up with spending and wound up living in extreme poverty... or even homeless).  

Then there are younger kids (and sometimes even adults) who are bullied for not having nice enough things; this isn't exactly a new problem, but I don't believe that it's improved over the years, either. Of course, bullying leads to its own chain of (sometimes lifelong) problems such as poor self-esteem, depression, suicide, etc.

Ultimately, materialism leads to greed and selfishness. As well as feelings of failure from those who think that they can't keep up. Society has never seemed so divided as it does in 2022. While perhaps not the direct cause, I do feel that money (or lack thereof) and materialism has contributed in some significant ways to the current angry state of (at least) the Western world.

Now, some might say that there's nothing wrong with wanting things if the "things" in question might lead to genune happiness. Or if "things" help a person cope with problems such as depression. I can agree with this to some extent.

However, it's all too easy for a dependence on "things" to grow into an obsession with things  -- which, again, FAR too often leads to greed, selfishness, and poor choices (that sometimes have dire consequences).

So, yes, modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic. There will likely always be materialism permeating the media and society in general. But if would be ideal if -- somehow -- we could curb it a bit, and start to value ourselves and each other, rather than our possessions.
