In the world of photography, it is often seen as a trade and not a true art form. This is because there is said to be little artistry involved, and that the images captured in the lens are just a base, accurate representation of what is in front of the photographer with little attept to create meaning or metaphor in the photo. Because of this, photographs are often seen as a depicition of truth, but is that really accurate? Photography is one of several mediums used for advertising, for campaigning, for creating an image that one wants to show to others and gain impressions, whether favorable or not. And often, because of the idea that photographs can show the truth or give some form of evidence providing for the idea the photographer wants to show, people are often influenced by what is presented to them. This can in turn be rather dangerous as it becomes a form of subtle manipulation. Influencers and celebrities with their airbushed images and lighting tricks make the ideal body seem impossible to achieve. Restaurants use photographs to display food that would never be achievable in real-life. Politicians and paparazi use what is not included in the lens to hide information about scenes they capture, choosing to show whatever fits their agenda inside the photograph. In this way, it could be said that images and their forced impressions greatly affect people in an almost always negative fashion.

Photographs and their impressions often leave people disappointed or misinformed due to the fact that it is often hard to find the whole truth without searching for the different angles. It becomes a bit of detective work to find out what may not be included in the images so that one would not be manipulated and easily convinced. This becomes increasingly harmful to not only individuals, but to society. Public figures are rarely represented truthfully, especically in the case of celebrities and politicians. Internet celebrities and famous movie stars are often fixed up with digital edits, and advertise health products and make-up that are said to be the cause of their beauty. People want to believe this, and often choose to ignore the fact that much of that celebrity's post is due to professional work aimed to get the viewer to buy the product. In a similar situation, when dealing with politicians or perhaps celebrities' private lives, the photographer is not trying to sell a product, but an idea. 'This celebrity is just like you', or 'this politician is corrupt'! Images are constantly used to force a person to see what the photographer wants to be seen, even if it may not be the whole picture. In a similar fashion, food and products are also photoshopped and modeled in a way that can usually be considered as false advertising. How many times has a burger from a famous fast food restaurant looked the way it is presented in media? Images have become more of a misrepresentation of an idea so long as it can sell and provide not a product, but a fleeting experience that becomes almost impulsive or instinctive rather than with thought and purpose.

Perhaps people have too lazy and jaded to see beyond the impressions forced onto them by images presented to them every day. While it is commonly known that even as a medium seen to be far removed from art, the fact is that the photographer is often highly capable of influencing the viewer simply by what is included or removed from frame, or what is edited to fit their agenda. People want to see beauty, to see images that fit their mindset, that seem interesting or exciting, and images that suit these needs are what are commonly found in advertising and media. This becomes dangerous because it becomes not a matter of truth, or of value or worth, but of represented substance and meaning associated not with the product or information itself, but with the collective feeling of having one's emotions and opinions validated and excited in some way. If things were to be represented truthfully, and less eye-catching, things would not sell or be as convincing.
