   Should society be critiziced for for materialism? This is very much similar to the question "should society be criticized for overindulging in mundane pursuits?" While engaging in moderate materialism is not only perfectly normal, but actually healthy, overindulgence in anything can be unhealthy. I will give you some reasons for why modern society should be criticized for being materialistic, as well as some counterarguments for materialism being beneficial.

   Engaging in materialism makes people loose sight of what's important. Materialism easily lends itself into just being a collector of things, and often those things just sit in boxes and on shelves and don't actually end up benefiting you. Like I mentioned before, engaging in behaviors moderately is healthy, but it's easily argued that today's society at large has gone far past moderate materialism. People wrap their entire identities up in the things they own such as cars, luxury goods, electronics, collectibles, real estate, and more. A healthier outlook is to identify yourself with the people you prefer to spend time with, the ideologies you hold, the things you do, and the beliefs you hold. Materialism is largely a distraction from these important things. You might ask me how materialism can be a bad thing if we need things to survive. My response would be that you're right, we need some things to survive and be happy. The issue is we've gone beyond that and are now collecting more things than we need or can even use. Which leads me to my next point.

   Materialism can easily turn into wealth hoarding. This is an issue because one person hoarding wealth in material objects leads to someone else being deprived of something they need. Nowhere is this more apparent than in real estate. People who have more wealth typically turn to buying more than one property. Why would a person need more than one property? You only need one place to live. An argument can be made that having multiple properties is understandable if you travel a lot, or are a dual citizen, but many people own five or more properties at a time, some people even own entire apartment complexes. These are less properties for other people who need homes to purchase, and the homes that are left have their costs driven up artificially to keep up with the wealth hoarding which prices out some people from being able to purchase a home for theirself. It's very clear that modern society's intense materialism is hurting those who are less fortunate in this case.

   One of the biggest arguments for materialism is that materialism leads to more production of goods which leads to more jobs which is good for society. There are a few issues with this. One, just having more jobs isn't enough to properly support people. While a person might have a job, they need their pay to be high enough to afford the things they need. As my previous argument suggests, hoarding material wealth leads to people with jobs not being able to afford things they need to survive. Just having more jobs isn't enough of a benefit for people if wealth hoarding still causes them to suffer so. Two, these jobs can be places elsewhere. There are many jobs that can be had that don't supply society with more goods, namely service jobs. Service jobs help create experiences for people, which are overall better for a person's mental health than just having more goods they won't properly consume. Going on a vacation with good service is far more beneficial to a person's mental health than getting a third car or filling their home with more goods. 

   All in all, I think my arguments for criticizing materialism are sound. We need not get rid of materialism, we just need to reduce it in an effort to get people to focus on what's more important than just consuming more goods. Getting the newest phone isn't always the best decisions, sometimes the soul needs more reflection than this. Anything that modern society does in excess should be questioned and criticized for whether or not it's beneficial to society's citizens. 
