The idea that competition has been the great promoter of success has long been debated. It's undeniable that competition can bring out high levels of performance regardless of the field. Whether it be boxing or hot dog eating, you will always find that many people are willing to engage in competition to attain some kind of success or fame. It's disputed, though, that competition produces the most success. Some people make the claim that cooperation with one another is a better way to attain a desired result. I think that the answer is somewhere in between.

Think for a moment, about the 2017-2018 Golden State Warriors, a Californian team in the NBA often regarded as the best team ever assembled. This is due in large part to the teamwork, the chemistry, the level of cooperation they played with. They played together well, and knew that every person on the team had the common goal of winning the NBA Championship. When I frame it like this, one would think that it's clear that cooperation is more important than competiton when it comes to success. Think, however, about an NBA team in which the players didn't care about competition, and only cared for cooperation. A team in which the individual players cared less about the result of the match, and more about how well they played with their teammates. This is exactly why a solid mixture of cooperation and competition is necessary. A wholly competitive player would reject the advantages that their teammates bring, but a wholly cooperative team would fail to use their players strengths fully.

Perhaps the previous example of a sports team is too on the nose. After all, it could be argued that real life competition isn't as cut and dry as scoring a certain amount of points and winning a championship. Their are more vagaries in life than their is in sport, success in life isn't as clear as it is in sport, the example should be extrapolated to normal life. 

Covid-19 has been a topic of discussion for the past few years, and for good reason. There has been many advances in knowledge about the virus, and how it can be prevented from spreading. An important example of this is vaccines. Regardless of what one may think of the efficacy of the vaccines, there is no denying that the vaccine was a result of cooperation between several groups of scientists, pharmacists, businesses, governments. For a moment, let's focus on a fictitious group of scientists working on the covid vaccine. We can assume that among these scientists, there is a trust, a level of cooperation that must be maintained at all times as to not destroy or ruin laboratory equipment. It's obvious that cooperation is of the upmost importance when working in a lab to create a covid vaccine. However, competition is also a driving factor of why these scientists are working at all. Not competition against other companies working on the covid vaccine, these individual scientists aren't likely to benefit from being the first to make the vaccine. Rather it's a competition against time. In a situation like this, competing against time is also of the upmost importance, so the amount of deaths and covid-related problems can be mitigated.

In sport, and in real life situations, it's clear that the most success is likely to come from a mixture of competition and cooperation.    

 
