As the Western world continues to develop, materialism persists in the minds of many in the midst of a society that constantly searches for a new means of happiness. Consumerism--in part with an evolving need for fast, easy, and interesting products--has led Western culture towards a complex sense of convenience and entitlement. While this cultural phenomenon is not the fault of a singular group of people, decades of consumer behavior reinforncing high-price items and brands as valuable has. Ultimately, modern Western society is at fault for its own materialistic attributes that are consequently leading to a harmful level of consumerism, posing a threat to the susbstainability of the planet.

With technology giving us the ability to access information and purchase products at our fingertips, it is of no surprise that a highly consumeristic lifestyle is of little consequence to Western society. Further, consumers are able to obtain any brand name that they can afford and rarely see the ecological blueprint of the products they are purchasing. As the ease of purchasing items anywhere and any time continues, so does the rate of disposal. 

Western culture also places high regard on high dollar items regardless of the social, ecological, and psychological consequences they may have. Instead, high-dollar items can be seen as a status symbol or a representation of success. As part of the landmark "American Dream," many consumers believe in obtaining high-dollar items and experiences as part of proving the success of their own work ethic. 

It can be argued that this is of no fault to current society, since the majority of consumers do not have access to information regarding where their products are made, the cost of labor associated, etc. Western society is not taught to question these moral dilemmas but rather this society promotes the idea of consuming as much as possible as a source of entertainment and fulfillment. Additionally, Capitalism is founded upon the idea that in order for a society to thrive, it must continue a cycle of production and consumption. 

However, given the access to information increasing amongst Western culture, it is more urgent now than ever for consumers to better understand the egological and socioeconomic consequences of their spending habits. It takes a social effort to promote education regarding materialism and its consequences for humanity. The substainability of the plant depends on the individual consumer to make appropriate choices when purchasing items.
