When it comes to people and determinig happiness based off of them focusing on their personal goals VS the happiness of others, I think it is so important to focus on personal goals and what is going to drive you to being happy in the future, you have to look at what discourages you and what motivates you and the happiness of others cant be the focus of your future of you will never be happy. 

As humans we all have things we look at in life that we want to accomplish, without setting goals on these things and prioritizing them we will never succeed at them and if we constantly sit back and look at what others want for us we will never meet those personal needs. We all have something inside of us that we would like to adjust or change in order to be a happier person, setting personal goals to work towards fulfilling these goals brings us happiness and satisfaction once we have met the goal we set! A lot of people dont realize their full potential because they dont sit down and prioritize what is important to them. It is also important to make goals that focus on the happiness of others as well or doing something to feel as though you are giving back to society, sometimes in doing something for someone else or humanity we find something inside of us that drives us and brings us a greater joy than we would have ever known. It is so important to find those passions as well so you have the ability to be happy as well as help others!

In order to be happy and successful in completing goals you must make a plan and push through it, you need to put it down on paper, make a list of what you want to accomplish and how you want to accomplish each thing. As you make your way through the list you will feel more and more empowered to accomplish even more goals! This will in turn fuel your happiness and bring more joy to your life! Find something that involves public service or helping someone you love and find a happiness in that as well so that you are giving back yet to others as well as yourself and your own happiness. Making others happy will bring you a joy you didnt know existed. I feel as though if more people did this they would be so surprised at the abilities they have to complete all of their goals and work towards more! 
