"we are living in a material world" proclaimed Madonna in her 1980's pop song and perhaps part of the reason for the fame the song acrued was it's veracity. We indeed live in a material world and we are all materialistic to a certain extent. the question however remains, is materialism a modern fault?  Should we critizise modern society for being excessively materialistic? I would argue that modern society is in fact not any more materialistic than it ever was and should not be critizised for it's materialism but rather, if anything, it's consumerism.

 Indeed, if we define materialism as the act of accruing possessions and spending money, then we can look at history and see that many civilizations before us have been organized around the accumulation of wealth as well as it's lavish expense. We could think of the Roman empire, Louis the 14th or even the egyptian pharaos as a few rapid exemples of civilizations who highly valued the accumulation of physical wealth and the very public display of it. In fact if we think of ancient civilizations, we can see that materialsim was so important and central that leaders were buried with their physical possessions to ensure their comfort beyond the grave, in graves so lavish they tower over modern cities still. Possessions were of such utmost importance that they accompanied the dead. 

In fact the acquisition and preservation of physical wealth was at the very center of the orgnaization of every society, it has informed hierchies, laws, rights of successions, gender relations, it has been central to many local and world conflicts. Materialism is therefore not a modern fault but rather one that has motivated humanity since it's very dawn.
there are those who blame materialism for the evils of this world, and certainly the desire for earthly riches and possessions has motivated some attroceous episodes of history, however, it is a behavior that at it's very origin has simply been a guarantoor of the survival of our species. Withouit the desire to accrue resources and wealth, our ancestors may not have succesffully weathered the harsh environments there had to face. If I do not work to insure my offsprings wealth, I cannot say that I am working to ensure they have a safe future. 

while materialsim is not in my view a fault, and is not a modern trait, I would concede that over consumption may be viewed as problematic. Consumerism is often associated with materialism and yet the two concepts are quite different. consumerism is an excessive behavior that implies and leads to waste of resources and wealth. Marteriaslim on the other hand implies the preservation and accumulation of wealth. It is a bulding effort, one that considers the future and works to see it come to pass. Consumerism on the other hand is a selfish and present behavior that uses the fruits of past labor to ensure instant gratification. 
If our modern society can be accused of any evil doing it would be of consumerism rather than materialism.
