Our ancestors didn't have iPads, cars or designer bags in their time. Their life was hard; with much of their day being filled with fulfilling physiological needs. Leisure time was sparingly something to indulge in and pleasure was found primarily in socializing with others. In the past, individuals had a keen sense of balance as it pertained to possessions - it was more important to have something that served a function and was practical. People from the past had little in the way of possessions and yet many led happy lives with a strong sense of meaning. Due to bloated leisure time, untreated mental health issues and technology, modern society should be brutally criticized for being materialistic.  

The person living in the modern world of 2022 likely doesn't worry about acquiring food, water and shelter. Therefore, much of their day is freed up to focus on pleasure. Of course, that individual might have to leave the home to go work, but society has accepted an eight hour work day ; this leaves eight hours of leisure time for the typical person in today's times. It seems that the rise in materialism is due to one thing: boredom. If someone hasn't secured food, water and shelter there is a high chance that they are not someone that values materialism. Since the average individual in 2022 has their physiological needs met, they can focus solely on enjoyment, pleasure and personal interests. 

For those with untreated mental health issues, materialism has become a quick-fix instead of dealing with the root issue. Someone upset over unrequited love can hop on the internet and buy themselves an inflatable boyfriend. Materialism is a pick-me-up status symbol for those with low self esteem that haven't sought treatment. In short, materialistic things provide the perfect external distractions for those who prefer not to deal with their own personal internal world. Hoarding, after all, is a phenomenon unique to our modern day culture. Individuals in our century hoard because they can; materials are in abundance due to the industrial revolution and production practices honed over the years. 

Perhaps, the biggest culprit as to why modern society has become so materialistic is due to technology. Social media websites such as Facebook, Instagram and TikTok focus heavily on acquiring goods and the social capital that results. In our modern day culture, we have Brand Ambassadors whose sole job is to promote a product and to sell an experience or an attribute along with a physical product. Our society is so obsessed in thinking that the more things you acquire, the happier you will become. Technology has caused everyone to walk around the world with a phone in their hand and their eyes on a screen. Our ancestors would likely be perplexed and might even think of us as losers for choosing to interact with a rectangular piece of glass than a human right in front of us. 

Those in support of materialism are likely pro-Capitalism. Capitalism, in and of itself promotes selfishness and acquiring things in excess. This financial structure depends on the average person spending money and will collapse if this comes to a halt. Since our economy is built on this notion, there is much at stake to not promote consumerism. Pro-materialists will cite The Great Depression as an example of why materialism is a healthy thing. Buying things in abundance is nothing short of gluttany, meaning that just because you can buy something, doesn't mean you should. It is likely that someone might counter and say its a person's right to purchase as much and as often as they like, but that is just an inflated sense of self and purpose. 

Modern society should be brutally criticized for being materialistic due to ample leisure time, untreated mental health issues and technology. Our ancestors didn't have enough free time, while many would argue that those of us in the modern world have too much. We've taken a narcissistic turn in thinking that our acquiring of many things make us a lot cooler than we actually are and sadly, trade time with others for objects.  After all, when we die we can't take anything with us. We should be thinking about the clutter and things that our loved ones will have to sift and sort through on our behalf while grieving. Should we leave our loved ones with good memories and time spent together or with physical things? Things break down, but memories won't.  
