      People in the modern world have become to obsessed with obtaining "stuff."  The idea of materialism or accumulating products and possesions runs rampant in modern society.  People desire to have the latest phone, watch, pair of shoes, or coffee maker.  Our stove doesn't boil water fast enough, so we need to get the updated, faster version.  What is the real purpose of obtaining all of these things, especially when they aren't necessities for life?  We should strive to live in a more traditional way, the way that our forefathers lived.  We should concentrate more on our families, helping others, and our spiritual state, more than adding more and more material possessions into our lives.

     I have loved reading the Little House on the Prairie series of books by Laura Ingalls Wilder to my children over the years.  When reading about this family, I yearn to have expereinced that type of lifestyle.  Waking up early in the morning to start the day with so many important jobs to do.  Feed the animals, milk the cows, collect the eggs, and working in the garden.  They didn't start the day by getting on Amazon or Ebay to see what is available or on sale.  They had very few clothes, maybe a couple pairs of shoes (one for work and one for church), and very few material possessions.  When measuring their "wealth" in material possessions, they would be considered poor.  I would argue that they were anything but poor, but instead spirtually "rich".  They would work together, pray together, eat together and cry together.  Sure there were times when they would venture into town and one of the children would desire to have a certain candy or a new dress, but obtaining material possessions wasn't an obsession for them.  The emphasis  in life for them was working hard, loving God and loving their neighbors.  How much more fulfilling can life be than that?

     There are certainly things in our modern day that make life easier.  It is more conveinient to have a refrigerator that can deliver a cup for of ice than to make your own ice in trays or going to the store to buy a bag.  A cup of ice water certainly is more refreshing than room temperature water.  Using a GPS to find your way to a location is definitely easier (and probably safer) than using an Atlas.  In order to participate in certain hobbies or sports, many times specific equipment is required.  There is nothing wrong with that type of thing, in fact many of these types of activities promote a healthy lifestyle and healthy wellbeing.  The problem is often obtaining "things" has a snowball effect that can quickly spiral out of control.  People see someone else who has a better pickleball racket than them and they set their mind to "I've got to get that."  Their current pickleball racket works just fine but the desire to have the best overwhelms them.  We should be more satisified with what we have, more grateful for the grace and mercy in our lives, and try to have a bigger positive impact on others, rather than storing up earthly possessions.  

     In conclusion, our lives here on Earth are so short in comparison to eternity.  Pharohs from Egypt were buried in tombs with their most valued possessions and guess what?  Those possessions are still buried with them, serving no purpose in the grand scheme of things.  Material possessions are temporal, here today and gone tommorrow.   The human soul is eternal.  The soul of the human is what separates mankind from all other creatures.  Let us concentrate more on things that are eternal rather than all the many things of this world that have no eternal consequence.
