Happiness is an emotion that most people strive for. Being happy obviously improves a person's quality of life, so it makes sense that most people want to find a way to be happy in their life. However, how exactly to achieve true happiness has always been a matter of contention. Is the key to happiness within yourself, or does it involve being surrounded by other people who you are happy with? While both are important, finding true happiness lies within yourself. Striving too hard to please others and make them happy can leave a person feeling drained, and therefore focusing on your goals and meeting one's own goals and dreams. 

Meeting your goals requires two steps: identifying your goal, and performing the steps to reach it. But the beauty of acheiving one's own goals is that they are able to look back with satisfaction and recognize all the work they've done to acheive the place they've arrived. It instills a sense of self pride, recognition of oneself and the accomplishments they've made. This ability to look back at oneself and see a person that has accomplished great things, overcome obstacles and acheived their goals is the reason that focusing on personal goals is the true key to happiness. 

Of course, there is the possibility that one will look back and see that they have no been able to achieve the goals that they had been focusing on. But one of the advantages of focusing on personal goals is that you can reflect on your own emotions as a result of being able or unable to achieve your own goals. You can always evaluate how you are feeling about your goals, how well you are doing on the steps to achieve your goals, and whether the goal still seems achievable. You can adjust your goal to be something that makes you more pleased and happy with life, or something that seems more acheivable if your situation changes. This ability to truely reflect and see how you are feeling as a result of your goals and where you are in relation to them is key to being able to remain happy even in changing situations.

On the flip side, focusing on the happiness of others is a recipe for disaster. Other people's happiness is fickle. One cannot control another person's emotions or feelings. Trying to both guess what will make someone else happy, and then their emotions as a result is exhausting. And there is no way to confirm or deny whether these people are truely feeling happy. Because of this unknowable nature of the happiness of others, relying on it to make one happy is a difficult way to live.

Happiness is something that everyone desires, and the ability to find happiness entirely within yourself and not other's validation or responses is so important to finding happiness. Being able to look back at yourself and see your own sucesses and acheievements is a huge advantage. Therefore, people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals and look back to see how they have been able to acheive them.
