The question of what makes people happy is not a simple one. In one person's life, that question may be answered in different ways at different times. But there is one thing that is likely to be true regardless,and that is that people are more likely to be happy if their personal goals contribute to the happiness of others.
     A simple definition of happiness might be something like 'a state of being in which an individual is content, satisfied, fulfilled and emotionally positive.' Considering this (albeit imperfect) definition, it becomes clear that the path to happiness lies in doing work that not only fulfills the individual, but also contributes to the betterment of others.  A brilliant artist could create a beautiful painting or sculpture, and the act of creation can provide some satisfaction, but it is in the sharing of that work that brings fulfillment. Similarly, if a writer produces a novel, there may be some satisfaction in having completed a long piece of fiction, but unless it is read and shared by others, the novelist probably won't feel fulfillment. 
     Mother Teresa spent many years working to make other people happy, but one cannot doubt that she received great personal fulfillment, contentment and satisfaction through her work. There's an old saying, "It is better to give than to receive", and that also is true. There is happiness in seeing the joy in a person's eyes when you give them a gift. 
     Perhaps it's a sign of maturity that giving, over time, becomes more fulfilling and joyous than receiving. When I was a kid, I never believed my mom when she said "just make me something" when I asked her what she wanted for her birthday. But as an adult now, I completely understand that sentiment. So perhaps the criteria for happiness does change as one ages, as I said in the beginning. But if we are talking about mature human beings, there comes a point when one's values do change,where one comes to understand the true nature of being human,where one understands that all relationships are transactional (not necessarily in money terms, but in terms of giving and getting), and one evolves to understand that giving is more fulfilling than receiving. 
     It is possible, although unlikely, that an individual can find happiness even if not one other person is affected.  I suppose a newborn baby can give happiness to others without feeling it herself. But in general, happiness is something we derive from our relations with others.
     If a person is unhappy, the best thing they can do is to do something for someone else. Human beings are social animals who derive most of their emotions from interactions with others. And the betterment of society, or the enrichment of the lives of others, is the true well from which personal happiness springs.
