     To be happy, people need to be focused on their personal goals to truly live a full and satisfying life.  If you are not happy with yourself and only focus on the happiness of others, then the rest of your life will be affected and it will wear you down.  Challenging yourself and putting the focus on you, makes life a little easier.    
     In my personal opinion, people that focus on their own goals and not the goals of others are happier in life.  For example, I used to struggle with my weight.  I would be that person that sat back and watched my friends with envy and jealousy on social media.  They would post their workout photos, before and after photos, and share their weight struggle stories.  I was focused on their life changing goals and not making any for myself.  It filled me with jealousy, anger, sadness, envy, and depression.  It gave me no purpose in life.  
     When I finally decided I needed to make goals for myself and stop focusing on other people's goals and happiness, it was as if a huge weight was lifted off my shoulders.  Life for me did a total 360 and I  started to feel the change in my emotions and they way I looked at myself and others.  I felt this drive for success that I had not felt in years.  It was the best feeling and I then understood I was not in a position to love myself, so I was not in a posistion to worry about the happiness of others.
     I am not suggesting that you ignore other people and their feelings.  But just remember, you and your happiness comes first. 
If you always focus on others, then you are not living life for yourself.  We all need to take time out for ourselves.  Take things at a pace that work for you and your life. 
     By following the simple rule of not comparing your goals to other people's goals and focusing on you, you will see a change in the way you live your life.  Start out small with your goals and stay in the lane of your personal journey.  Once you achieve this, you can then open your life up to sharing happiness with other people.  
    


