Our modern society and economy relies on the production and consumption of goods and services. For most people, much of the time during the day is spent on work, in order to make money to fuel consumption. This focus on materialism has created unprecedented prosperity, but that does not mean it should be immune to criticism. There are many ways in which materialism has led to problems and unhappiness for people all over the world, and will continue to do so in the future.

The amount of time and effort spent in the pursuit of earning money to obtain material goods and services is huge. Our default societal expectation is that people will devote decades of their lives to such work activities. Material wellbeing is seen as a worthy end in and of itself. However, upon closer inspection, we find that past a certain point, material wellbeing does not translate into happiness and satisfaction in life. Once people's basic needs and desires are met, they derive diminishing utility from further indulgence in materialism. In addition, work is often stressful, and causes conflicts that detract from one's mental health and sometimes even physical health. In this way, overemphasis on the pursuit of materialism can be counterproductive towards living a long, healthy, happy, and meaningful life.

In addition to negative effects on individuals' wellbeing, materialism also causes negative externalities for our environment and humanity as a whole. The drive to produce and consume ever more will necessarily run into physical limitations. There are only so many resources that humans have access to. In our drive to produce and consume, we have caused significant damage to the natural systems of our planet. There needs to be some counterweight to materialism, or else unchecked materialism will push the Earth past the limits of what it can support. We are already seeing this with human-caused climate change manifesting in the increasing frequency of extreme weather events. These negative consequences are a direct result of humanity's drive to produce and consume more, which often necessitates polluting the environment and disrupting natural equilibria.

It's true that the modern capitalist system with its inherent materialistic focus has improved the physical wellbeing of countless people, lifting people out of poverty and enabling them to enjoy life beyond having to take care of basic needs like food and shelter. However, just because materialism was a beneficial paradigm in the past does not mean it will be a beneficial paradigm in the future. History is full of social and economic systems that worked well for the circumstances of a particular time and place, but have ultimately fallen by the wayside. It would be naive to assume that relentlessly focusing on satisfying materialistic desires will be able to solve humanity's problems in the future. We will need new philosophies and approaches to address challenges like climate change that materialism does not address or even causes.

Materialism has shaped modern society into what it is today, with a level of material prosperity unequaled at any earlier point in history. However, we must remember to cast a critical eye, as materialism is not a panacea for all of humanity's ills. Just as the materialist paradigm supplanted earlier paradigms, such as those based on religion, we should expect that materialism will one day no longer underpin our society and economy. The deficiencies of materialism will be much more clear in hindsight, but they are already visible today.
