Happiness is something that each person defines differently for themselves. The same would be true for the way to achieve happiness. And the same goes for what importance happiness has in a person's life, is it the ultimate goal without which life is not worth living or does it have a lesser priority or importance?

However, a happy person is more likely to radiate that happiness out to others, make others happy and let them share in their happy outlook and therefore has a beneficial influence on others and the world around them. A happy person rarely lashes out or takes their moods out on others and presumably gets angry less often.
It is rare for people to derive all of their happiness from making others happy, the overwhelming majority of people expect something more or less tangible in return for any efforts  that focus on others' wellbeing and happiness. It's undeniable that giving gifts and improving people's lives has a beneficial effect on the gift-giver and improver, but true happiness from these actions will only arise if the person who is the giver also receives at some point. Not necessarily from the same source that has been their beneficiary, but unless we're looking at a true saint, which is rare, most humans require some sort of acknowledgement of their effort to find happiness along this path of action.

In a life situation where the focus on one's happiness is achievable without detracting from others' happiness and without neglecting any familial or other interpersonal or work-related duties it is perfectly acceptable to put great emphasis on self-care, individual happiness and well-being. Only then can a person be fully present when it comes to making others happy. Pursuing one's own dreams and goals also doesn't have to be mutually exclusive with caring for others; someone whose dream it is to be a doctor adds to others' happiness by keeping them healthy, at least that would be the ideal. Someone who dreams of emulating the life of Albert Schweitzer or Mother Theresa would fall into the same category.  

I would argue that the path to happiness really varies with the person seeking happiness and their individual idea of it and there is more than one way to achieve it.

Another position would be that happiness isn't actually something that can be chased and achieved, but more a state of mind. In other words - simply be happy first and the rest will fall into place. But I can assert that from my own experience in choosing life paths, that is rarely the case. Happiness needs work sometimes.

Putting in the time and effort to make oneself happy by pursuing one's dreams and goals, without being ruthless and making others unhappy in the process seems to be a good choice overall and I feel that the majority of people might agree.


