Have you ever turned away from a competitive situation simply because the other person was almost too passionate about it?  Maybe even something like a game of touch football in your yard with an overly competitive family member? I know I have! Growing up with three older brothers, I constantly found myself in competitive situations.  Whether it was a silly game of Monopoly, or competing over who could throw a ball farther, my brothers were always fighting over who was best.  It may seem to have driven them to succeed, but all I saw was a temporary high for the winner, and discouragement for the losers.  I feel like had they just worked together instead, they would have felt better about themselves, about their relationships with each other, and would have had more of a lasting success with whatever they were trying to accomplish.

Some people may say competition gives people a reason to work at something harder. But this isn't always true.  More commonly in my life, I have seen that not everyone is encouraged by competition, as some people are just naturally non-confrontational.  After years of being exposed to an extreme amount competition, I saw that competition turn into negative feelings and resentment between my brothers.  Instead of teaching them how to succeed, it taught them that they always had to be right and better than the other person.  I saw my brothers get angry when they lost, or felt like they were treated unfairly when they didn't win.  I saw them throw things in anger.  I saw them not speaking to each other for days over something ridiculous.  I honestly stopped wanting to play games because they always ended this way.  To me, the competition only brought out the worst in them and I have even seen it filter over into their adulthood.

While some people need competition to drive them into doing something, a lot of people are just not emotionally strong enough to handle competition.  They don't have the confidence to compete so they automatically get defensive or walk away.  These people do not find success in competition, but actually complete failure because they won't even start something knowing they will have to compete with others. Some people feel like it just isn't worth all the arguing and fighting that goes into competition.  They would rather sit down calmly with others to come up with a solution where everyone wins.  To me, doesn't everyone winning seem like the ideal situation?

Competition also doesn't support a teamwork mentality in people.  It sets people against each other right from the start instead of encouraging people to work together. To me, the more minds working on something, the more diverse the people are, the better and more lasting the results will be.  Remembering that everyone is different and have had different lives is important.  When you compete this is completely taken out of the equation because there is always only a winner and a loser.  This doesn't help with a successful outcome regardless of the situation.

After growing up in that competitive household and seeing how the competition affected my family, I tell my kids now that it's not always bad to compete with others, but that working together will bring about much better results.  I try to teach them that there are more important things in life than winning or being right, that their relationship with their family is more important than that.  When they compete, they get angry with each other and walk away from whatever they were working on.  When I see them working together, they smile, laugh, and actually successfully finish whatever they are doing.  And they actually like themselves and each other more afterwards.  I can apply that to the teamwork they will need later in life when they grow up and get jobs where they have to work well with others, or simply get married where you have to work as a team with your spouse instead of always trying to win an argument.  Cooperation trumps competition almost every time!


