One of the most interesting aspects of our time is the idea of presentation in personal relationships. A lot of the way that we express ourselves on social media is a misrepresentation of reality. I think that this is an echo of capitalism that vibrates through us. Products and services are presented only in a positive way in the same way that we present ourselves on social media. We are trying to showcase only the highlights of our lives to present ourselves as shining beacons of positivity. 

The problem with this is that the reality is often much different than what we present. Which isn't necessarily a bad thing. It is just reality. It has unfortunately lead to a lot of problems with mental health. Everyone thinks that they need to be a certain way, because everyone else portrays themselves as having perfect lives. So many people tell themselves that they should be one thing or another. They should be doing so many great and amazing things. They should be better. And that is a highly negative thing for society. 

Why is that a negative thing? It is negative not because people are striving to be better. It is negative because we all get a false sense of reality. That person who is always happy and smiling in their photos might be living a worse life than you are. They could be miserable. But they present themselves as perfect. They only show the best moments of their lives. In truth we all live in a grey zone of positivity and negativity. Everyone has ups and downs, and it is important to realize that you get both of these things in life. 

When we think our lives are much worse than everyone else's it can lead to depression and anxiety. Nothing you do is ever good enough. You can start to think you'll never reach the heights of everyone that you knew in high-school, or your current co-workers, or your family. When the reality is that they may be struggling too. It's a social taboo to show that you are struggling. People might think that nobody wants to see you when things are less than perfect, and they can withdraw in on themselves. 

A counter-argument of this could be that seeing so much positivity might lift people up and make them strive to better their situations. Which could have some truth to it. Maybe some people do try to better themselves because of things that they see. The problem is that everyone's situation is different. They may not be able to change their situation right away. too much comparison is not healthy. It doesn't matter how positively you might think you are. Comparing yourself to a false reality is in the end still based on a false assumption. Something that is unobtainable. 

It would be better for people to have their expectations rooted in reality. That sometimes things will be shades of gray. And that's okay. We don't always have to live in the sunshine. Some people thrive at night. When things are hard and the pressure is on, sometimes that is when humanity shines the brightest. We shouldn't have to pretend that we never have moments of doubt and suffering. It would be much more healthy for everyone if we were more open and understanding of what is going on for everyone. If we hide those moments away, it is much harder to reach that. 

So impressions are important. It would be good if everyone was a little bit more open about their struggles and the realities of their situations. If they were, they might find that there are people out there who are willing to help them get through it. Putting on the fake smiles and only having those high moments of your life on display can feel nice sometimes, but it can also be harmful overall. 
