Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition?

People achieve greater success by cooperation.  It is one of the earliest methods of survival for humans.  Primative man would have either become extinct altogether or only survived to evolve in the most food-plentiful or hard-frozen parts of the world had they not learned to work together as a group.  

How did we come to be carnivores?  Easy, one lone person could catch a rabbit or a bird and feed him- or herself; he could catch a fish.  Humans have always been capable of catching and eating a goat or a sheep by himself.  How did we come to eat cattle, bison, deer or even wild hogs?  A hungry primative human would have looked at a cow and thought "I can't catch that by myself " so did he just give up on the idea?  No, he would have gotten more people together to gang up on the creature.  There would have been meat for everone for days.  Cooperation was born when people realized that it meant strength.

One might say that it was competition that motivated man to catch and kill the large beasts to feed his family.  One man thought, "I can find a way to hunt for food one-tenth the time my neighbors have to hunt.  They go out every day to trap a rabbit.  I can go every two weeks, maybe even once a month, and get a buffalo."  He would have had to invent a powerful enough weapon to kill a buffalo.  A sharp spear would never have worked unless the beast was trapped.  These animals have survival instinct and a sense of smell that would have made it impossible for primative man to sneak up on them.  If the man was somehow able to kill a huge beast like a buffalo, first he'd have to get it home by himself.  Then he'd have had too much meat to eat and not enough time to preserve it unless it was the dead of winter.  He would have watched it and smelled it go rotten before he could eat it all.  It would have quickly made more sense to everyone to gather a hunting party together and share the meat.

People achieve much more success by cooperation than by competition.  Competition leads to waste, including wasted energy trying to do something by yourself that is more efficiently and quickly done when people join forces for a common goal.
