Is it ok to love Materialism

What makes most of us tik, unless you happen to be a buddist monk, is yes- buying nice things!
Both buying and selling and eveything inbetween is a rush for us people of the world that dont live in third world countryies
yet now even them thru the advacne of tecnology our buying more "things: on line. buying the latest teck itiem or device or new clothes or a new car or motocycly really gets the adrenalin rushing thruogh us making us feel alive. After all this is a material world.

So why are we Criticized by those who push austerity?
Maybe the reason is Jelousy. For those without the means or those who just simply are a drag and are pesamistic about life and dont enjoy life in the material realm; it comes down to jelousy.

Of course their may be one good argument against materialism. That would be a spirtual view of our life. If one is truly on a quest to experience God through austerity then I understand this is a valid position. But barring that I dont feel there is a valid reson for oppsotion.

I feel that the ecomomys of the whole world depend and are hinged upon the lust for materialsm. Without this lust and passion for "things or 'Stuff"  for instancce america would not have the great ecomomy it has and we would not be in the postion to assist developing nations.

So there you have it . to asummerise- we love new shinny toys and clothes and cars etc that make us happy inside
This in turn grows the economy and lets us help other nations
and those who are against this are just plain deadbeats. In my closing thought I reflect on my younger days when I would visit the Ashram in upper state N Y and learn the ways of the Guru from india. A guru from a very austair region and hinudu relegion there was a hugh dicotomy in what was before my eyes. While teaching absinence and eating rice and beans the halls of the Temple were decorated with the most expensive wood and trim I had ever seen. The limos they rode in were brand new mercedez. The musical citars and sound systemswere state of the art. The entire landsape was prestine and expensive flower gardens and rock gardens
but to top it off- later we found out one of the two gurus was jetsetting to NYC on the weekends while we were at the meetings. He as living it up at night with wine, women and song.
The reason I have brought this to light is to let you know I dont blame them. This just shows how impossible it is while living in this world to -not be- a materialst. Even our bodies are material. our houses , cars, necessities. If the Guru from india faild to remain pure from material posseions, then this is a very difficult thing to consider.. So please dont critixize materialists and pleaserememberwe all need to consume products not onlyh to survive ,and not ony to be happy ,but to keep the world economy going strong..

