     Humans have five basic senses: sight, smell, touch, taste, and sound. Assessing through these five senses is automatic and requires little to no active thinking. Humans believe in and trust the content of character or the quality of the product, but it is a fact that before we can assess content, we get an impression of how something looks, sounds, or appears. It is always said that first impressions are very important, and although impressions can change, it is very hard to fully remove instinctual biases. Images and appearances are enticing, and they govern too much of too many people's attitudes towards a subject.
     It is common to engage with something based solely on how it looks. When at a restaurant, people will order what someone else at another table has ordered just because it looks good. The popular saying "Don't judge a book by its cover!" exists because humans have an innate instinct to make assumptions based on appearances. In grade school, kids will get crushes on other kids that they've never talked to, solely because they like the way they look. Content of character is always, by nature, assessed after making judgements and developing biases based on appearance.
     People say that it's what's on the inside that counts. This is certainly true, as not many people would knowingly purchase a poor product or engage with someone who is a horrible person, but we do typically initially approach a product or person based on looks. It is very difficult to get to know something or someone in detail without having assessed them with one of the five senses. Getting to know the content does determine the majority of one's attitude, but it should ideally determine all of it. A part of the overall attitude is determined by that first impression or appearance. If you met someone who bullied you upon the first meeting but ten years later became your best friend, your attitude towards them may have changed drastically, but you will never forget how they used to bully you. First impressions matter, and the initial attitude, whether small or big, lasts.
     Images and appearances don't necessarily communicate the message or content of a product or person, but they are what is engaged with first. Humans have an instinct to judge and categorize these appearances into feelings about the subject. These feelings turn into unintentional biases that somewhat govern how we continue to feel about the subject, even far into the future. As much as humans hate to admit it, appearances have a large effect on who and what we engage with, and even how we feel about them.
