I think the modern world puts way too much weight on materialistic things. we have become dependent on things too much and not enough on people. one of my favorites mottos is "if you can't take it with you when you die then it is not worth having". I also like to tell others "never have anything you can stand to lose". having things in your life can make you happy and even feel proud but they are not the reason for living. this is a popular conversation in my household while we enjoy material things but also value each other and our time together more.

without your things you are just you. we base our self worth on our jobs, money and how many things we can have to impress others. this is not what God put us on the earth to do. people have been living for thousands of years and not all of those years did we have material things. this just proves that you don't need those to live and needs and wants are two very different things. this is one of the reasons I support intentional communities so much. you are valued and appreciated there but not for your money or things- for you. sharing with others and living for yourself and for God. I think greed has a lot to do with why society is materialistic. the more things we have then the more we - want. the question now lies in- where does it end? does it have one? how do we turn this troubling trend around?

I can agree with others that material items are awesome and i'll be the first to admit how much I love my smartphone and electronics. I also love having a nice house to live in and things that make my life easier. the only difference is I know that these things are temporary and they do not make or break me. I am the same person with or without things. I know a lot of people chase high paying jobs so they will be able to fill their lives with material things because they have been taught to do that by society. this is really where it becomes a problem because we shouldn't be chasing items to make us happy. loving each other, God and our community should be what makes you happy. sometimes you just have to ask yourself- what is guiding my in life? what am I working for? what makes me happy? if materials items were on the list then maybe it's time to reevaluate what is important to you.

In conclusion, while I can agree that having material items are great, we should be criticized as a society because we are basing how good we as humans are off of this. it seems materialism is something everyone knows about but it is something that is rarely discussed. we need to bring more attention to what we are working for in society and what gives us value and it is not material items. this has been an ongoing issue and it goes hand in hand with the problem of money dominating and guiding society. who is going to fix this problem? I don't have all of the answers but I do know one thing for sure- we need to start looking for some before this problem consumes us as society and as people as a whole. so the short answer is we should be criticized to the point that we make a change even if we aren't all willing to do so.
