Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition?  For this question, I don't beleive that it has to be one or the other, rather a healthy blend of both.  There are also various factors which can make cooperation more important that competitions, and vice-versa.  I will explore the benefits of both, and why I feel that both cooperation AND competition are equally important for success.

Competition is something we start doing at a young age.  Whether it's competing with a sibling, a friend, or a classmate, often kids do it without even realizing.  It's something that is just part of human nature and feeds into the survival of the fittest.  I don't think that competition is a bad thing, as often it helps us to push out of our comfort zone and try to be better and/or the best that we can be.  There is always somebody who is better than you at something.  If you complete to be just as good, then you will only better yourself.  For example, I go to the gym with lots of younger people who may be slightly stronger and faster than me.  The competitive nature inside of me pushed me to bump up my speed and choose heavier weights.  And now, I am just as fast and just as strong as the people 10-15 years younger than me.  If I didn't have that competitive nature in me, I never would have tapped into my full potential in the gym environment.  The benefits of a competative nature can translate positively to many other areas and aspects of life.  However, a competative nature alone is not enough to achieve optimal success.

Cooperation is also an important part of achieveing optiamal success.  Let's face it, we are not on this planet alone.  We are not in this country, this state, this city, or even this house alone.  Along with the human nature to compete comes the human nature for companionship.  This need for companionship comes along with a necessity for cooperation.  We know that big jobs get finished faster with many hands.  We know that different people have different strengths.  We know that completing a hefty task is much more effecient and enjoyable when done with others.  Therefore, when we take many hands, and utilize people for their particular strengths, we can achieve success quickly and more enjoyably.  I will go back to my gym for an example of this.  We complete a "Dri Tri" at the gym, which is a team effort.  We take each persons strengths, and assign their task (rower, weight floor, or treadmill) based on what they are best at.  We work together and cheer each other on along the way to accomplish the goal of finishing the race.  In doing this, we work together, utilize strengths, show comradery, and most importantly cooperate.  

Some people may argue that the benefits of cooperation outweigh the benefits of competition.  Others may argue that compeition is more important.  I don't think it has to be so black and white.  I think that a healthy blend of both is the best recipie for success.  The exact ratio of cooperation vs. competition may need to be altered based on environments or personalities, but overall a blend is best.   I know with my gym examples, I have been turned into the best athletic version of myself with the healthy blend of both competition and cooperation.  So, the answer to the question posed is that I feel that people acheive more success when they utilize healthy amounts of competition AND cooperation.  

