It seems that modern society does not see the importance of materialism in most people's lives. The general use of the term "Materialistic", is commonly used when explaining a characteristics of a person, and in most cases, this is deemed to be a bad characteristic. People view women or men that are charactized as materialistic, as shallow and cold hearted. This is probably due to their extreme view of this word. A common phrase that shows how people really view the word materialism is, "gold digger". This generalization is why people are shunned for being "materialistic", when materialistic just means acquiring and spending money. Almost everyone is materialistic in some way and that is just how modern society shapes us to be, modern society shouldn't criticize people for being materialistic when they are the root cause for it.

Materialism is what gives most people purpose in life initially. Everyone in modern society generally goes through the same process: go to school, find a job, acquire money to settle down, and retire. This is the common life of most people in society, and this is why we are brought up to be materialistic. The intial purpose is to learn in order to acquire an income that will provide us with a house, food, and retirement. This alone is in some form, materialism. There is no reason for anyone in modern society to judge a person for being materialistic because this is just how we are brought up. Now it's obvious there are going to be outliers who aren't as materialistic as me, a person who lives in the US, because having money possibly may not be as important in their country/area as here. It all really comes down to the importance of money in their society, and how much importance they deem money to be.

No one should be judged/criticized for being materialistic, and this is just a fact. It can be how a person was brought up, how important they deem their currency to be, or if they just find acquiring money personally satisfying, these are all respectable reasons to be materialistic. Unless this materialism gets to the extreme of say, interferring with someones moral compass, there should be no room for criticism. In most cases, society and our communities shape us to be materialistic in some way, so for a person who is quite likely to be materialistic themselves to judge another for being slightly more materialistic is absurd.
