What is happiness? Is it what puts a smile on our face? Or what makes life enjoyable? It could be from something tangible nor non-tangible-- a gift or a compliment. Happiness is a daily strive for us all. Most of us persue happiness for ourselves or for others. Ultimately whether it's for oneself or not, it's about being effective on making a change that counts.

Why is happiness so important? Well for obvious reasons, it's good for our mental health, even physical health. It gives us an optimistic perspective in our life and personality. It's a motivation for our existance. It's more than just a social aspect but a incentive for survival and evolution.

How do we become happy? Well, by achieving goals and dreams, of course. What if we helped achieve other people's goals and dreams? It's no doubt the reaction, that's the true satisfcation-- knowing you have a staple in society, a cause and effect. There are those who might be happy already, might be aware of how privileged they are, and buy giving back, it makes them feel fufilled and happy. There are those who went through something traumatizing or an event that changed their life, changing their perception of many aspects of life. They usually feel like they have a duty of encouraging or helping others avoid whatever situation that affected their life. And there are those who feel we have a duty or responsibility of a certain goal and by achieving it, they can "die happy".

In general; aiming to making others happiness should be a goal in life, but one must be happy first. I do believe most people focus on their own happiness first, and rightfully so. It's vital that we help ourselves before we can help others, even if it makes us happy helping others be happy. By achieving our own personal goals first, it can have a positive impact on how we potentially help others too.

So in conclusion, are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others? And the answer is that we are more likely to be happy buy focusing on our own personal goals first and finding that extra set of happiness by helping others afteward.
