People often say the key to happiness is to do what one desires in their lifetime. Many people, family and friends sometimes have a vision of how our lives should play out in their eyes. None of that matters if it is not contributing to one's overall happiness.  In order to achieve happiness it is important for people to focus soley on their own personal goals.

When focusing on your own happiness you can chose to be content with your own life. You may feel like you are betraying your mom or dad but in reality you are establishing boundaries for those indiviudals and letting them know it is okay to be different. For instance, your mom may wanted you to finish highschool and go directly to college to become a doctor. However, your personal goal may be to become a professional dancer for a celebrity because that is what you love. If you decide to go with your mom's opinion of your goals just to please her, you may spend your whole life left and battling with regret. However, by pursing your passion for dancing, it is going to motivate you to strive and push harder to achieve that goal.

Also, as you push to strive harder to achieve that personal goal, you will push through any obstacles that may arise because you know the vision you want for your life. If you rely on happiness of others, you may let your whole life pass you by and nothing have been achieved. Choosing your own personal goals, is a big part in establishing your identity. For example, it makes you not care what others think of you and allow you to make mistakes and learn from them. 

Overall, God created us to be our own person. Our vision as individuals may not always align with the vision of others, it is important to chose ourselves in whatever we do in life. Life is short and it is imperative that we learn to follow our own vision for our lives. Choosing to focus on your personal goals in order to make sure the life that you live is happy will always be imperative. So ultimately how will you chose to live your life? Will it be for others or soley for you? Make the choice today to chose happiness and focus on your personal goals.

