Has the appearance of reality become more "real" than actual reality?   Have consumers - whether of products, performers or politicians - become more convinced by ads and tweets ABOUT people and products than by the actual facts about them?

Media today - whethre written or visual - has unfortunately become a marketplace that thrives on weasel words, inaccuracies, misstatements and even outright lies.  It has, unfortunately, become a requirement that consumers of these media become critics, not merely consumers of the content that they read or watch.  Unfortunately, many peoples seemingly have neither the interest nor the ability in discerning truth from exaggeration or outright deception.

With just a focus on political deception, we had a previous U.S. president who was determined to have lied publicly well over 5000 times.  The lies are easily fact-checked.  It is difficult to refute the facts.  And yet millions of peole have done so.  Why is this?  I am not a psychologist or a polital scientist, but it appears to be a necessary reduction of cognitive dissonance, in ordere to maintain a belief at all costs.  

One fact that I have learned in the past several years of political discord in America, is that if someone is unwilling to allow facts into the evaluation of a politician, then appearance metamorphasizes into reality.   And facts become "fake."

It can be challenging and unpleasant to consider that what we think about a person or thing may be only somewhat correct or even completely false.  Nobody enjoys having to say that they were misled or lied to.  Admitting tht we thought a deep fake was real makes us feel both betrayed and a bit silly.  And it also requires us to have an open mind - at least a little - to allow new infoormation to enter your thoughts.

But a willingness to evaluate information critically is increasingly necessary, both for us as individuals and a society.  Otherwise, we will become a nation of tribalism, where the new Hatfields and McCoys will wage an endless battle with the "enemy" other, without even understanding why.

