Five years ago my world stopped. I passed by a sign that said "Free HIV testing today". I figured; "Well, I haven't been tested in a while, it's time now".  I had been relatively happy until then. NOT great but ok. This was about to change.  I knew something was bad when there was a long delay, and was certain, when I was faced with two workers, tasked with delivering the news. Their faces were sober. I was told that I HAD been diagnosed as positive. They were going to take another test, just to be sure. I was stuck in a room, alone, waiting, for over half an hour. It seemed like days. Things just stopped, but nothing like the way I'd feel when all hope was gone. When they returned, they delivered the final blow. Yep, I had it.  I left my body, sitting in the busy lobby, waiting for a worker to come and talk to me. 

Slowly, over the following days, my life shifted. I became tethered to the new pills, which cost 100 dollars each, which would keep me alive. I realized that I WOULD remain alive. I'd be much altered, but I'd survive. I just had to figure out how to do this. Figuring out a way to be happy while doing this would be vital. Gone forever was a concern over what clothes to wear, how I looked, what people thought. I simply didn't care about that any more. I cared about being kind to people. I cared about being just. I cared about making smart and healthy choices. These things NOW made me happy. My personal goals became quite basic. 

My main goal was figuring out how to keep some form of insurance. This involved "working the system". I simply couldn't afford to pay 3000 dollars a month for a medication plus the testing and other pills needed. There was no way. I couldn't maintain a place to live. I figured I had to "become poor". I learned about food banks, county insurance, documenting things like all income on a daily basis, and asking for help. Asking for a lot of help. I begged. I got a charity to give me money for rent. Another helped with money for a month's worth of electric bills. I had to stop working. One necessary point here; I DID in fact have AIDs, It was no longer safe to be doing plumbing in dirty toilets, crawling under infested crawl spaces in the dark. I could die easily. My T cells couldn't rebound- YET. I COULD foster them and take care though. 

Happiness now came in increasing and better T cell counts. Lower Aids viral loads. More health, lower weight, and many of my weird problems resolved. Nail funguses, and catching every little cold and bug stopped after getting my HIV load down and actually getting RID of Aids. It didn't take more than a year to become undetectable. THIS made me happy. Feeling like spending time making my health and self better was a smart rebound. Spending time with my husband made me happy.  I was happy to have enough food in the cabinet (from the food bank, but still...). I changed radically, not worried about ANY sort of appearance, what someone might say?? Hmm, who cares? I didn't. I cared about being kind, taking a considered view of life and NOT making the environment worse. I became aware of homeless. Waiting in line with them at food banks, sharing what was given out. If I didn't like something I could trade with a family who DID want it. Being friendly, helping others out, hanging out, these were better.

I also became keenly aware of the love and kindness of others. Little old ladies, manning the food bank, always with a kind smile and word. Poor persons, helping out in charity lines, Sharing what I had with homeless people, who were even worse off. These things brought a smile to ME. These made me happy.  I altered my life, realizing that I COULD live quite a long time. I could help others in a way and make SURE when I saw a homeless person or someone down on their luck, to at LEAST offer a smile. Share clothes I didn't use, Share food I didn't want - NOT to throw stuff in the trash without allowing poor people to have a shot at it. Even things that are WORN OUT but if they are clean, are desirous to someone without a washing machine.  They can at least wear them a while, making use of them before tossing them. 

Oh, the other thing that ended up making me happy? Getting rid of my van/car. I have no vehicle and I walk everywhere. At first it was tough but when I lost 10 pounds, gained great endurance, and saved a ton of money, I realize it's a blessing. It's NOT missed AT ALL. Now with gas prices skyrocketing, I'm super happy about that. I also save a bit of the planet. I don't burn fossil fuels going to work (or anywhere). I'm happy to leave the planet better, not adding to global warming. I also buy almost no clothes... did you know that people toss away perfectly good clothing of ALL sorts, and fashion? This is pollution and you can WEAR it. Almost all my clothes are things I pick up when walking. It's easy. Just take a clean plastic reusable bag, grab the item and put in in a bag and wash it at home. new clothes. If it's something you don't like, wash and leave for a homeless person. THIS Makes me happy. Seeing something I found worn by someone cold and poor, is a happiness bringer.

So, to sum up, I probably am happier and more realistic now than I was before being diagnosed with HIV. I'm probably even healthier. I do NOT miss a doctors appointment. I'm screened for everything from VD to cancer. I pay nothing for this because I work within the system. I figured out how to do it. I have little stress as I have no patience for it. I just live better with an adjusted life view. I'm truly happy. Yes, I have worse days, but they're pretty rare. Helping others changes this, and NOT taking yourself too seriously helps too. SEEMING poor isn't a crime and poor people are the kindest and most generous. I cringe when viewing "Rich people" erecting huge walls around their selves and property. Keeping out the world, hurting the environment, and eshewing all natural life is a sad way to live. I'm glad I DON'T have all that cash tying me down. I'm truly happy just the way things are. If I did have cash, I'd spend a ton on charity. Seeing people greedy and sucking up more than their share is one of the only things that sort of brings me down. I try to NOT focus on that to keep myself happy.

You can also be happy. Try it. Get rid of things that tie you down. Try to save money. Make do with less. Give more. Be kind. This is what has worked for me. I think it will work for you - focus on the happiness of others, then the happiness will float your way. I think it's a key many hold in their hands but never imagine how to use.
