   In daily life, people are surrounded by objects, possessions, and other items of value. They are surrounded by advertisements, shopping offers, and other requests to engage in a consumptive lifestyle. Life exists in a materialistic world. But should modern society be criticized for its materialistic outlook? Those who would criticize materialistic life might say materialistic society is unnecessary, meaningless, or morally unethical. However, materialism is actually a necessity in modern life because people are forced to function in a materialistic society, most people require the benefits of materialism to enjoy their lives, and materialism does not necessarily have negative ethical value.
   The vast morass of people in society function in a global, capitalistic framework where money is exchanged for goods and services. Opting out of this system is akin to opting out of society, and most people do not have the commitment or resources to make this choice. In order to exist in this society successfully, engaging in materialism is a natural and necessary process. Working, earning money, paying rent, purchasing food, clothes, belongings, and other materialistic endeavors are actually essential activities, and criticizing these endeavors would be as useless as criticizing the necessity to breathe. Individuals can not choose to reshape the societal dictates that make materialism an important part of life, so they must also choose to engage in it. The ordinary person should not be criticized for participating in a natural part of modern society.
   Furthermore, most people require the mechanisms of materialisms to enjoy a better quality of life. Possessions not only include frivolities, but also include clothes, shelter, food, and capital. Without these essential parts of everyday life, the ordinary person has a reduced standard of living. Modern society is provided with capitalistic and other means to achieve these needs, so materialism gives people the opportunity to pursue a better life in a global framework as consumers in a market. In fact, it may be argued that capitalism and materialism makes many of these necessities more affordable, as it also creates market conditions where competitiveness and diversification create more affordable products. Materialism cannot be criticized on this basis because it makes most lives better.
   Criticism should also not be leveled against materialism on an ethical basis, because it can be argued that it has neither positive or negative ethical values. It exists more like a mechanism arising out of capitalistic life that everyone engages in. People may choose to make ethical or nonethical consumer choices depending on their personal ethical values. Materialism in itself is not necessarily an ethical or unethical choice. Most if not all consumers engage with the companies, products, and purchase decisions they are making on a daily basis, so materialism is more of an extension of personal choice than an ethical decision itself. A critique of capitalistic society may be able to label materialism as unethical, but people largely exist in a capitalistic society - without societal or systemic changes, it is fair to see materialism as a function of how people make moral choices.
   The other chief complaint about materialism would include its opposition to spirituality or meaningful life. However, it can be argued that these are not oppositional concepts. One could pursue spiritual life, ethical decisionmaking, and choose to follow their religious code regardless of the existence of materialism. All people must engage with materialism in ways they find personally appropriate - in a global society, the consumer has an almost infinite variety of options to engage with materialism, and anyone should be able to find a satisfactory way to pursue their spiritual, political, and personal goals in a way that provides personal satisfaction and growth.
   Since materialism is a natural part of our way of life, provides better opportunities for a higher standard of living, and has no real positive or negative implications by itself, society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Finally, it is important to emphasize that although materialism itself should not necessarily be criticized, people need to be aware of the personal choices they are making in materialistic, capitalistic society and whether these choices reflect their intent, morality, and other ethical concerns. The real critique will always belong to people and how they engage with the world itself.
