In our current world, images and impressions have a huge impact on people who engage in current mainstream media. Especially since the internet has been used for many of our interactions, how people are portrayed effects how we think of their abilities and talents. It can also effect how we see ourselves by comparison.

Social media currently is effecting younger generations more than ever before. There are curated social media pages where social influencers only post their happy moments in glossy images, aiming for perfection. This has also happened in the past with a limited portion of the population being portrayed in media, but currently photoshopping is available, and glossing over any imperfections has become a popular way to share our lives on social media. Phones themselves come with photo manipulation built right in, and social media sites like Instagram are used to share photos that have been staged to show only a person's good side and good moments. This sharing often glosses over or ignores a person's faults and bad days, so the public only sees a facade of positivity and controled glamour. Since it's rare for a person to never have a bad day, this false reality creates an unrealistic expection of how we are able to live our lives. It has become expected to only show the most beautiful pictures of food, women with perfect makeup and hair. It may effect how people who don't take such careful care of their appearance are viewed. 

There have been arguments made that without our current social media and digital tools people have always made judgements based on people's appearances, but never before have we had such access to photoshopping tools at our fingertips. Anyone can manipulate a photo to erase skin imperfections, and many women even change their body shape with photoshopping tools. It can be difficult because of this to know what is real and what is photoshopped. We're getting a skewed image of many people's lives that glosses over any imperfections, while people remain imperfect in reality. 

It can be difficult these days to tell the difference between fantasy and reality because of our media. This problem is not helped by our ability to photoshop ourselves into perfection and curate our lives to only show the positive. People are all imperfect, so it can have an effect on how we see ourselves and others to consume so many false images of perfection.
