                                               Success Under Fire: Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition?

     We live in a world where everything is measured and compared.  From social media status, salaries, celebrities, fashion, and the likes, most of us compare ourselves and either try to be better or feel guilty for not living up to the status quo.  So what helps people become more successful?  Is it better to have this competitive environment to push us to do better, or is a relaxed cooperative approach the better way? It is my opinion that while intense rivalry may be a way to drive a temporary victory, cooperation seems to produce a more sustainable lasting model of success.   
       Even the brightest star eventually burns out.  When people are driven to constantly be the best, beat the competition, and view everything as I'm not good enough situation unless I win, burn out occurs.   While competition is great for races, games, and short term competitions.  Keeping the competitive spirit alive at all times can quickly lead to a crash an burn situation.  The constant stress we put on our body keeps us in the fight or flight mode.  When you live in that mode for too long, your body can't take it anymore and starts protecting itself by shutting down emotionally and physically.   This is a perfect example of winning the battle, but losing the war.  You may succeed in the short term, but constant competitive drives can burn you out and cause you to lose long lasting success. 
     Strive to be the tortoise and not the hare.  Aesop's fables gave a great example of someone who was persistant and unhurried in their success with the toroise and the a hare fable.   The hare was over confident and full of comptetitive speed.  He took a break before the finish line and took a nap.   The tortoise kept going at his pace, with no pressure and eventually overtook the hare and won the race.   Slow and steady really does win the race.    When you work at your own pace and stop comparing yourself to others, you can accomplish you own personal goals for yourself.   This leads to more self confidence and a sustainable working ethos. 
    Many organizations seem to thrive on competition, and it is a valid point that they may see better numbers and more success.  It is wise to consider the cost to the people involved? If you are a person that is chronically competitive, be sure to keep a check on your health and mental state.  Some people do well in competitive environments.  It is usually best when you are competing with yourself and not comparing yourself to others though.  
     When companies and organizations foster a cooperative environment that focuses on self growth instead of competition, they will see their members thrive to be the best they can be.  When pressured to compete constantly companies will experience more burn out and some members will completely shut down.  By taking the slow and steady wins the race model, and encouraging a cooperative environment, people will thrive and allow the organization to shine like never before.    

