The pursuit of happiness is a different for each person but everyone can reach their own island of joy if they try hard enough. 
The average person goes after their idea of happiness by following their goals they've set for themselves against many different factors. As a child I wanted to be an artist and refused to budge from my position. the only problem was i had many people telling me I was so talented that I never moved beyond the few skills I learned to impress people. I became so focused on my art future that I never planned for anything else which in retrospect was kind of foolish. Over time as I realized I needed more skills to become an artist and there was more to measure my success off of than all the great artists I identified with. I had to give up on my dreams when cold reality set in that I wasn't going to be a famous artist with millions of fans. 
I decided that if I couldn't draw the images in my mind I would write what was in my head. I decided to try my hand at writing and although I've improved since my first few stories that liberally borrowed from more famous works and writing my short stories fulfills me. I hope that someday others can read my stories and find joy and interest.
on the other side of the coin my wife is a people pleaser. Everything she does is always in an attempt to help others and leave the world in a better place than how she found it. We couldnt be more different but we both are like yin and yang of different kinds of happiness. She makes and sells products to people and feels actual joy from their happiness. She is probably the happiest person I know and I wish I could find out her secret. 
On the other side of the coin I can be a miserable person. I believe in making myself happy and ignoring others. This path has led to depression and anxiety. I was raised to not be selfish but it is very difficult when it feels like the world is out to keep you down. Everything in the world feels like a rigged game designed to suck money from your pockets and the thoughts from your head. I want to belive in the happiness of others and through my wife I feel I can. She has shown me that helping others can lead to fulfillment when I see the smiles on other's faces when they open her skincare products. 
So in conclusion in conclusion I feel that focusing on the happiness of others, while still saving some for yourself, is a path to happiness and fulfillment and I would encourage everyone to give it a chance. 

