There has been a long standing debate in psychology as to whether cooperation or competion creates the most success. Society is built upon both principles, and neither can be a sole answer but I will attempt to lay out some annecdotal scenarios that may help shed some light on this complex matter.  Personally, I think it is a mix of both but there are pro and con argumements to both as I will briefly lay out for you now.  

Have you ever taken a class in school and been paired up with a group of students? How did that go? Ideally the work or project would be split up equally amoung the participants.  This analogy also goes for work related projects.  Now how often in these projects do you feel that you would have been better off just doing the entire thing your self because others are not pulling their weight. Either through sheer laziness or neglect or just not capable of performing the task.  So you end up pulling the others up behind you which then distracts you from doing your best work. This also has the potential for making the project suffer or even your own personal sucess because you are tied to others motivations.  I have had this happen many times especially in school where my grade was dependant on cooperation, but others do not take it seriously so my sucess is hindered.  Now lets change this to a competition model. If each individual is competing against each other, let's use a workplace model, perhaps a raise or a prize is at stake.  Each person is responsible for themselves and their own sucess and failure. The ones who want to do better will and the ones who just want to skate by they will as well. Neither however will be affect by the other, and perhaps some friendly competion will push others to strive more.  

Sports are a great example where cooperation really comes into play. Sure there are the individual sports where you are competing against others, but most of the time you are on a team, insert cliched "no I in Team" phrase now.  I am thinking right now, not of football, or baseball, those are obvious. I am thinking of the Jamacian bobsled team, like in the movie "Cool Runnings". Each member of that team had to push them selves to the max and try hard to boost each other up, each person from the person pushing the sled to the others in it already had to move in unison to get down that hill. They had to move in tandom to get the best speeds possible. They have to train together and work together to be the best they can be, and while they are still competeing against others the team aspect I think is well illustrated in this sport in particular, most while you are on a team you are still semi responsible for your own performance in that role, but bobsledding seems as I stated before is a more tandem cooperative event.  There can also be some downsides as well, which of course is if one person fails the team fails. This can create some perhaps undue stress to the individual which while they have stress in a competive situation they know that the only person they have to blame is them selves.  I think if there is a pro to this idea it really is that some of the weight might also be taken off the individual as well.  

These are just two examples that utilize the cooperation vs. competion idea. There are pros and cons to both, but at the end of the day it really just depends on what you are doing and use whatever model will create the most sucess for you or your team. These concepts do not exist in a void either, but a personal choice should be made as well because forcing people into a model that they are not comfortable with will also create problems.  The best answer to this question is perhaps a blending of the two, especially if you are thinking about using these models in either the workplace or the classroom, and encourage those to do their best be it if they are working together on a project or are competing against each other to gain reward.  Sucess is what you as an individual can make of the situation and putting your best self forward will always guarentee sucess no matter which situation you find yourself in.  Personally however, I do prefer to do things on my own. That is how I am sure I can be sucessfull because I want to be the one repsonsible for all the sucess and failures for myself.  But that is just me, perhaps you can figure out what might work the best for you, as there really is no clear cut answer. Just remember focus on your abilities and then make sure you put 100 percent in if you are by yourself competing against others, or working with others towards a goal both can be benificial and can create good outcomes, but maybe think of some of these ideas next time you are in a scenario like this and perhaps you might even gain some insight of your own.   
