Materialism operates as the backbone of modern-day capitalism, especially with the advent of social media and current advertising techniques. Social media provides a backdrop that allows users themselves to become a product. Hawking self-love and self-improvement, influencers readily gush about how products or services changed their lives to an impressionable audience. Faced with a constant deluge of advertising information, consumers become more entrenched in the notion that consumption equates happiness or status. However, with the impending threat of climate change, how sustainable is the current rate of consumption?

As humanity progresses through the 21st century, it is increasingly clear that the climate crisis is quickly worsening. In fact, there are already raging fires occuring in the Western portion of the United States, such as the current fire engulfing the Northern area of Flagstaff Arizona. As storms and fires intensify, sea levels are also rising, threatening the very existence of coastal cities globally. With these blatant facts in mind, fairytales of endless consumption must be put to rest. In order to effectively face the destruction of our global ecosystems, consumers need to consume less and denounce materialism. 

While it is important for individuals to consume less, the majority of the burden of combatting climate change falls on producers. Materialism fosters a culture of consumption, which encourages further production. However, the means of production are currently the ultimate culprit for this seemingly irreconcilable and existential issue facing the planet. Focused on increasing profit margins, many corporations choose to continue a cycle of wastefulness and ecological damage. This, in a sense, is its own iteration of materialism. CEOs and high-ranking employees benefit from cheap, yet wasteful production. This cheap production boosts earnings, which, in turn, increases bonuses to high-ranking employees who reap the benefits. This demonstrates the clearest issue-- materialism thrives on self-interest and humans are inherently selfish. 

Given the growing threat of climate change, modern society must adapt by consuming less and producing in a more environmentally-friendly manner. This indicates that a vast cultural shift decrying materialism must occur. However, access to social media and online advertising combats this need to evolve by further emphasizing consumption as a means to happiness. The very idea of materialism is rooted in a seemingly ingrained need for humans to constantly improve their own status. Thus, while we should criticize society for materialism and wastefulness, is materialism merely baked into our own humanity?
