Every day we are bombarded with advertisements and images- we see them driving down the road, in our reading materials, and everywhere we look online.  There is advertising even in places we don't realize or notice, such as above the buttons in an elevator, on the side of a bus, or in the names of our buildings.  Advertisers and influencers know this, and know that in order to grab our attention through this cacophony of input, their ads and postings need to pack a powerful visual punch.  Instead of relying on consumers to read a full paragraph about the product they're trying to sell, and to then use that knowledge to make a purchasing decision, the advertisers use images to provoke a desired response.  If a picture can make a person feel beautiful, or powerful, or rich, they will associate that feeling with the product, and be more likely to purchase it, or click on the next blog entry.  Overall, this is detrimental to our society.

The first and most obvious example is what advertisements and social media tell us we should look like physically.  We can tell ourselves all day every day that it doesn't matter what you look like, that what's inside is what counts; but when we are constantly being shown models and actors who are thin and beautiful, we begin, even on a subconcious level, to believe that we should also look that way.  The problem is that even those models aren't actually that perfect - they are both digitally and surgically enhanced, and the pictures they take are not achieveable by any normal human.  This leads to all sorts of problems, especially with teenage girls.  Self-image, low self-esteem, and even more serious problems such as anorexia and bulemia, or body dysmorphia can result.

The problem bleeds over into our politics as well.  Politicians no longer run on what they actually believe.  They tell us what they think we want to hear in order to get our votes.  Their goal is not to make changes or help people, but simply to get into office.  This is a huge problem for our country.  Citizens vote for the person who reflects their own opinions, usually without digging any deeper to see what and who the politician truly is.  It doesn't matter if the politician actually helps their constituents...if they're on the right side, they get the votes and all the perks that come with political office.

The information age has had great benefits to our society - all the world's information at our fingertips, greater ease of communication, and the ability to find people of like-mind anywhere in the world.  But the overload of information is a problem that needs a solution.  Our attention spans have grown too short.  Too many of us rely on pictures and memes for our information on vitally important issues.  As a community we need to be willing to study things in depth - to read the background, search out the truth, and look at both sides of an argument, instead of relying on the hits of adrenaline we get when we see an image that pleases or amuses us.  Our future could depend on it.
