Do people achieve more sucess by cooperation or competition. Competition can be a way to achieve finacial sucess if you are looking for quantity but the price for large quantitive information or items requires doing work for less money. Another way of looking at this question is what do people think success actually is?  Is it a family with children and a partner or is it finaical with assets and a high yearly salary. It can be both. 

 Having a partner in life has shown that two people can be more successful than one person over time if sucess means how much assests they have compared to one peron working a lifetime and aquiring things like a home and retirement funds. Being alone might mean you cna devote more time to a career making more money though. Do two people have more sucess than one person.
I think two people as a team is more successful when aquiring assets. You have two incomes and that gives two people more cash on hand to purchase bigger and better homes. They probably have two cars compared to one. They might have a vacation fund that is larger and they can have a family where two parents take care of the children alternating who overseeas things like child care and household chores. 
One person by themselves would have less of an income but would require a smaller home and only one e car. So sucess of assests might have different values. One person might not be able to afford housing cost for a mortage but lets say they have one. Both scenarios involve long tern home ownership. 
Parenting by yourself is harder when children are small. That does not mean a single parent can't be a good parent and have good kids. So, having a family depends on a personal preference not a quantative success like assets. This scenario means a sucessful family is not different for a single person or a team of partners.
I have described two situations where I decide myself between the compitetion one competitor is a couple with two people and the other competitor is a single person. In the assest department the team work wins that competition. In the family department this competition has no winners. So it does not prove any point except that teamwork can be successful when you want more assets. 
It is possible to wonder if teamwork when purchasing a home is better for a winner if they use teamwork and cooperation. When one bids on a house the two income family might win where as the individual could have less income and lose. 
My theory is proven that success in life can be better if you use teamwork to aquire things. My other theory was that you do not need team work to be successful when raising  a family and that means competition isn't better tha

