The question is whether people find more happiness pursuing their own goals, or by focusing on others and helping humanity.   This is a very big, important topic -- most people at some point in their lifetime ask themselves the questions "why am I here?"  "What is the meaning of life?"  "How do I find fulfillment and happiness?"  "What will truly make me happy in my lifetime?"

I firmly believe helping others instead of helping yourself is the path to true happiness.  I believe most people will find more happiness and fulfillment by being "other-oriented" than by being self-centered - doing things to help and improve humanity in general.  I base this argument on my own experience as a recovered alcoholic, finding sobriety in the teachings of Alcoholics Anonymous.  The main tenet of AA is that you fulfill your own sobriety, happiness, and meaning in life,  by helping others do the same.  This not only forces you to think outside your own ego, and distracting you from selfish thoughts, but it also fulfills your "higher power" - living your life on the moral high ground of helping others, instead of just helping yourself.  I have found proof of this in my own life - since I've been following this AA directive for the last 20 years, I can say that I'm much more happy and fulfilled than I was before I got sober and started helping other alcoholics stay sober.

If you go through life just seeking to please yourself, acquire material goods, and trying to achieve your own goals, this automatically makes you a very self-centered, selfish individual, and therefore not finding true fulfillment spiritually or morally.  All the major religions of the world teach this very concept.

Therefore, my absolute conclusion to the question of whether an individual finds true happiness by just pursing their own goals and happiness, or by seeking to help others and improve humanity is clear -- for true spiritual fulfillment and happiness, an individual needs to pursue a life seeking to help others, and to think of others before themself.  This is the path to true happiness.
