The debate of weather cooperation or competitions is more valuable to the human experience, in both work and play, is certainly one that harkens much debate on which of the two factors is superior to the other. There are positions that would suggest that an independent and more competitive approach garnishes a better result while there are counter arguments that would also suggest the values of cooperation over competition. It would seem that both sides of this argument have reasonable points that could justify their specific position. Throw the gathering of data and extensive research one might be able to understand which is stronger for their given situation but being able to crown a most desired method across all social aspects of the human experience is one that perhaps is near impossible to quanitify. Instead, I feel that we must use anecdotal evidence from actual human experiences on the matter. Which is why in my experiences I have primarily found that a strong cooperative structure is more likely to draw a more successful outcome when compared to a competitive environment. 

My affinity toward cooperation, over competition, is rooted in two major factors. The first of those two factors is the tangible outcomes. That is to say, the end result that has brought to light some new successful fabrication. The second factor, which I think is often forgotten because of its intangible nature, is the cooperative growth between those that are working or playing together. 

In our first factor, tangible outcomes, I find that working together is more successful when compared to competition because whatever you are working toward or playing toward is acheived in a faster time. The temporal factor of how quickly one can complete the task threw cooperation is, in my opinion, what allows us to take on even more and more encompering tasks as a team cooperates and thus grows and learns together.

Which brings me to the second factor, growth through cooperation. Just how tangible results can show the value of cooperation, a continued cooperation over time allows for cooparative growth and that can be seen through efficency. While efficiency is a more intangible factor the members of the team can see its value through efficiency and effectivness which benefits them on a temporal level.

In my personal exerpience, I think of a time when I was tasked with building out three playgrounds for a local cities parks. I was lucky enough to have two other people who were helping me assemble these playgrounds. Between the three of us our work task was able to be more successfully fabricated through teaching each other the assembly parts we did not know during the logistics process. At the first build site we were able to spend a little bit of extra time working on the logistics process to make sure we all understood how to effectively assemble the playground. Then, we were able to get more proficient after the first playground. By the time we got to the third playground, we were so much more efficient that we were able to assemble the playground much faster do to our cooperation. Additionally, by working together we were able to move larger objects together in a more timely manner when compared to trying to move these larger objects without the support of others. After we had completed these playgrounds we also were able to see more success in our future projects that we worked on together because we now had a better understanding of how each other thought and worked. In essence, we cooperated to the point where our team was so effiecient that we were effectively like one unit.

Of course, in this example, there are some inefficencies that could be a strong argument against cooperation and in favor of competition. For instance, in the logistical phase, we were slowed down as we all had to make sure we were on the same page. That inefficiency in the logistical phase wouldn't exsist in a competition structure as there wouldn't be the need to make sure everyone was on the same page. But, while that ineficiency in the logistical phase can exsist it lacks relevency over the long run because, as was mentioned previously, the group dynamic becomes one and will be able to complete the task in a faster time and especially over more repititions.

This debate on cooperation vs. competition has always been one with reasonable arguments on both side but I think the verdict has always been clear to those that take the time to cooperate. We work best over time by cooperating and as we gain more anecdotal evidence of the value of cooperation it becomes more clear. I suggest to those that feel they thrive in competitive work and play to spend the time working in cooperative natures so that they too can learn of the value of cooperation. 
