Materialism, like many other "issues", is all linked to perspective. This topic crosses my mind quite often, because it is linked back towards the meaning of happiness. Enjoying and creating art is a huge part of my life and passions. We all consume it in one way or another; i.e. movies, billboards, design on clothing, what type of cup we choose to buy, etc. Should I be criticized for looking deeper into these everyday things as art? 

As new generations rise, thinking smarter -not harder- becomes another player in the game. We produce more to make life easier than once was. We consume more to learn what works and what doesn't. Everything has a cause and effect to it. Everyone in the 80's-90's era gave us the wonderful world of over-consumption of plastic. Yet, today, we are shown what alternatives are available thanks to the problem that consumption brought us. Cause and effect. 

We're all human. We aren't perfect. On the topic of happiness, I will say that -yes- money and materialistic things bring me joy. I cannot have necessities without money. I cannot drink water unless I have a cup. I cannot speak, let alone see, my family from the UK without my smartphone. I cannot find purpose without paint, brushes, a canvas, pencils, and some markers. It's all how you look at it. While I can find peace and joy in the simple things -those will only get me so far. How will they take me to my next step? Will they be enough for my mental health? Will I have a chance to progress in life? What's wrong with wanting those possessions in life?

So many questions, yet I am the one left to answer them. If everyone could have all of these luxuries in an instant, we all would choose that option. For most of us, the hard work and dedication to get those materialistic splurges can be so rewarding and motivating to keep going. To spread the joy to our families. Am I materialistic for wanting my mother to have the best pair of shoes she could ever have come across? Does that make me selfish? Does that lower my status in life? In the end, none of that matters. It's our own paths that we decide to take, whether that have luxuries or not.

We cannot deny that there are problems and complications that we all face and struggle against the race of time to reverse the effects done by over-consumption. Some of us in this world do not have a choice. Some of us are in sweatshops making ends meet for a few cents an hour. Doesn't matter how much plastic was wasted, doesn't matter how many pairs of shoes are made. Survival mode is what's at play here. You cannot look at every issue as black and white. You cannot believe you understand what's right and what's wrong regarding the issue. We can only go based off of our own lives and paths that relate to happiness and materialism. 

Everyone deserves a chance at happiness. There is no set definiton or picture of what that looks like. We must continue to move foward. We must not apologize, but do better instead. We can only try our best, and we can only do what is natural to us -and that is being human. We need not to criticize who we are, but to analyze and find a solution.
