     What comes to mind when you think of a perfect society? Typically, a person believe peace and harmony is what creates the ideal community. When we think of any sort of society, whether it be a school, a workplace, or a family, we must address how to make said society as successful as possible. While some may argue that competition is the key to a healthy society, this is not necessarily true. Using cooperation to accomplish our goals provies much more success than competition.                
     The American classrooms are one example of how cooperation over competition provides much more success to all parties involved. If students are given an assignment that might confuse them but they know it is for a grade, this could turn into a competition among classmates to see who is "better" or "smarter". Since no child wants to be belittled or bullied by their peers for not being intelligent, competition could drive a student to plagiarize or cheat in order to get a better score. While this may boost a district's test scores, the competitive nature of a classroom hurts children because they are forced to perform acts that are not only dishonest, but do not actually teach them the material they were supposed to learn. However, if students work together and offer to help one another, success can be achieved. When students work together to share ideas with one another, they are successfully learning to work together, problem solve, and help struggling peers. This is a life skill that will carry them far into adulthood, and makes the classroom much more harmonious and successful than a classroom that is competitive. 
     Another example of how cooperation over competition provides more success is looking at organized sports. Many professional athletes are paid millions of dollars each year to get their teams to victory. However, there are many teams that are constantly in last place or close to it each season. This results in players getting angry and demanding to be traded. This is all due to competition. Players know they are forced to be the best, so they abandon their team due to competitiveness. This puts many teams at a disadvantage because that means there will never be a way for them to improve. If players focussed on staying with a team and prioritized cooperation, more success could be met. This is because better players can mentor weaker players instead of jumping ship to another team. If weaker players feel supported by their teammates, they will feel more inclined to work harder- since they have formed a bond with each other and would not want to let their "family" down. 
     Although we have been accustomed to competition in many aspects of American life, this does not mean it always drives success. When we understand how cooperation can assist different groups, such as in a classroom or on the field, we begin to realize that cooperation may be more significant to success afterall. When organizations encourage cooperation over competition, we can support one another, which will aid in the success of more people over time.  
