A popular idiom is, "You can't take it with you," meant to discourage us from materialism. While it is indeed true that we can't carry our wealth with us beyond the grave it can certianly make us more comfortable in this lifetime and we can leave it to our loved ones. Given this, the pursuit of material possessions in this lifetime can be considered a worthwhile pursuit, even a noble one. When we devalue the pursuit of wealth and criticize modern society for being materialistic we are in asking them to forgo happiness in their own lifetime and to not leave a legacy of happiness to their loved ones.

In society today, wealth dramatically increases the standard of living and often the happiness of individuals. This can be seen in even the basics of life. While we like to idealize the happiness of the person who lives pay-check-to paycheck because money isn't everything, this is largely a myth. Happiness comes with running water, electricity, groceries, a working vehicle, and the ablity to go on vacation. Real happiness in ones life comes from the ability to pursue dreams instead of being tied to a job and living just to work and pay bills. To buy ones dream car or go on a dream vacation may be considered "materialistic," but brings great happiness to a person's life.

Wealth and the happiness it can bring is often passed from parents to their children. Generational wealth often rolls like a snowball. The "materialism" of parents isn't only for their own happiness, but also being stored up for their children and grand children which makes it far less selfish. Seen through this lens the parents are working for things they can enjoy and then pass down to the the next generation to enjoy. Critisism of this is to critisize a nurturing and caring for of ones offspring.

It could be said that saving for a dream vacation or to leave an inheritance for ones children is different than "materialism." Perhaps there was a larger distinction in the past. In our modern society, the accumulation of wealth in general has come to be termed "materialism." Who is to say what dream vacation is appropriate vs. excessive for a given family? By using the term "materialism" we are able to shame those on the lower socio-economic rungs.  This argument has simply become a way to judge those our society doesn't wish to see climb out of poverty or the middle class. Yet when we strip away the term we realize that the actions of living our dreams and planning for the future of our loved ones are actually admirable.

"Materialism" may be a loaded word in our modern society, dripping with indulgence and excess. In reality, it's simply how anyone with means lives. It is how they spend their money enjoying life to the fullest and storing up an inheritance for their loved ones.   
