Images have too much of an effect on people. Since the inception and exscalation of social media, the average person has become more connected to those of "image." It is the ease of connection that allows for a significant influence over our daily lives.

Because of social media, I can follow a Kardashian, Elon Musk , or even the President on social media and be influenced by their opinoins, statements, and endorsements. The ease of access to people that are leaders in their field or those that we envy or respect, influences our daily lives. Prior to social media, the average person would shop where it was convenient or where the products they wanted were located. Now, due to image and access, people are seeking our "endorsed products" by people they are influenced by. This has led to a new phenomenon of "influencers" within the realm of social media. The image that is portrayed via these "influencers" or quite often those we look up to, influences how we eat, what products we buy, and what we think (think politics and presidential twitter accounts). 

Opponents of this might say that others don't influence us, we seek out ways to improve ourselves. By seeking these things out, we are searching for those we look up to, not being influenced by what they promote to us. This is not an effective argument as those who we seek out, do not wish to promote the individual that seeks them, they wish to increase their power and their overall influence. Thus, we take into consideration somewhat of an alternate reality. 

The alternate reality of image is that now we have things such as photoshop to distort photos, auto-tune to distort voices, and political spin (not new but more accessible) to alter reality. By altering reality and showing these people of "influence" in a better than normal light, our perspective of what is normal is elevated. By elevating this, we are distancing ourselves from reality. 

Image has always had an effect on people, such is the saying "keeping up with the Jones'." Prior to media, people wanted their reality to be what their neighbors portrayed or the idea of "perfectionism." People strive to be better. Now that better can be altered, people are influenced by a fake reality and continue to strive for perfection of their image. This promotes a false sense of selfe and has made people too submersed into the fake "images" and less on the reality of daily life and importance of those things in it.















