     What is happiness? What really goes into what happiness means? Is it something you create? Something you choose? Something you have? Something you do? I'm sure books could be written with just how many questions you could write about happiness; what it means, and what it's made of. Some people say that happiness is only found if you focus on your own personal goals. Others say that true happiness is found in the happiness of others. I'd be wrong if I said there was any right or wrong answers to any of these questions or if I said there was one right way to be happy. Everyone is different and has different views, so everyone will have different ways of what defines their happiness and makes them the most happy in life. 

     I believe, in most cases, people are more likely to be happy by focusing on the happiness of others. Phillipians 2:3-4 in the Bible talks about not doing things selfishy and to value others above yourselves, looking at their interests instead of just your own. That can be good for anyone to live by, even the non religious. Imagine how kind people could become if they followed that verse? We are social creatures by nature so I can see most people being happier if they focus on the happiness of others rather than their own personal goals. It's doing things like that which can create community and trust among humans which is a comforting thing for most. 

     People could argue that a lot of people are selfish and would take you for granted, and manipulate you if you live by that verse. This is a very valid argument as undergoing such treatment can create a lot of stress, depression, and other tramas that can take a toll on you if dealt with for an extended period of time. Not everyone is the same and it can be frustrating to deal with people that take you for granted and don't give you the same effort that you give them. I don't believe this is a reason to not live by that verse. Though, this is a reason to set firm boundaries for yourself and your happiness/saftey, it's just a matter of understanding what you will and won't deal with. Though, learning how to be nice and considerate along with setting those boundaries.

     Happiness can be a challenge for a lot of people whether you think that it is foung through focusing on personal goals or on the happiness of others. Motivation can be hard to come by sometimes, and people can be diffucult to work with even on the best of days. It's just a matter of finding what works best for you, though I believe that if we all but others wants above our own and valued others above ourselves, the world could become one pretty remarkable place. Unfortunately, that isn't likely to ever become the case, which is why boundary setting can become so important in this way of happiness. Balance is key in all things, even when it comes to happiness. 
