It's the age old adage, "money can't buy happiness," but consumers lately believe otherwise. In a world where technology is running rampant and we're surrounded by influencers, infomercials, and advertisements everywhere we look, is it possible that we have no choice but to be materialistic? Have we forced a never-ending cycle of making and spending money on ourselves? Or is it possible that none of this was inevitable and we all have the chance to change our frivolous ways?

There are many things our ancestors love to tell us - that they walked up hill both ways to school in the snow, that in their day they didn't have all these fancy gadgets, and that during the war they happily rationed the items necessary to keep troops afloat. Did they ever stop to think that perhaps they weren't materialistic because they simply weren't able to be? Since the internet blew up in the 1990's, technology seems to be growing at a rampant speed, with new versions of phones coming out each year and things that never once seemed possible, like electric cards, becoming all the rage. When you pair this with today's need for oversharing it's no wonder that society is so focused on the next best thing - we have it surrounding us 24/7. Competition drives us to have the bigger and better phones, the faster cars, and the most high-tech wearables out there. It seems that once a new item comes out, users are unhappy with their old ones - which is exactly what these companies hoped for. Therefore it seems only right that society not be blamed for their spending habits and their love of possessions, but rather the blame should lie with corporations, right?

Wrong. This mindset is precisely why society is materialistic as it is - there is no accountability. All around us are people who see nothing wrong with buying a new $1000 phone each year or a new car every five years. While yes, we are bombarded with media images and videos telling us to purchase these things, does society have no limits? Our grandparents rationed items but they still had wants and needs, but what is the likelihood of anyone rationing today when society as a whole has become so egocentric and unaccountable? There will have to be some sort of line that society crosses as a whole which leads to our inevitable materialistic downfall - eventually there will only be so much new technology and there will be fewer phones, cars, wearable technology, and other possessions that can possibly be created. Perhaps this will be a good thing for all.

While the demise of new technological advances is most definitely not on the horizon, there is hope that people may soon catch on that if you've had one phone or car, you've had them all. Society might possibly slowly go back to caring for each other, sharing, and saving for their futures, rather than splurging and shopping whenever possible. It's easy to try to blame the times changing, corporations, or advertisements for society's materialism, but we should really be taking a closer look at who is truly to blame: society itself.
