In the 1980s, the term "Keeping Up With The Joneses" was a popular phrase meant to frame the greed and excessive consumerism of the time, something that was and continues to be explored in books, movies, and literature. It was common and almost expected to show off flashy clothes, the newest tech, the fanciest cars, and the most succulent dinners. Fast-forward to 2022, and the phrase itself may be slightly outdated, but the sentiment behind it is not. Our need for more and more has only gotten worse. As a society, we are consumed with consuming, and we need to change that. 

Consumption of goods -- disposable or otherwise -- is at an all-time high. It's time to explore and critique the deeper sentiments and harm behind excessive consumption. Why do we feel the need to buy so much, and can we save ourselves from our need to own the new, shiny thing?

Studies show that, as our production and consumption of good and services rises, our happiness actually decreases. Materialism is an endless pursuit that should, on the surface, make us happier, but actually has the opposite effect. Between the financial strain of always having the next wonderful thing and the mental strain of keeping up with friends, celebrities, and influencers, consumerism is stressful. We are constantly being bombarded with images of some cool, sexy item, as well as "proof" of how wonderful the owner's life is, and how our life would also be better with it. When that feeling is temporary or doesn't happen, we move on to the next thing. The pursuit and cycle repeats, leaving us even more unhappy and unfulfilled.  As our internal emptiness grows,  our landfills overflow.

Proponents of ultra-consumerism argue that manufacturing and selling new items is actually beneficial. Production of goods creates manufacturing as well as many other jobs --someone has to transport, sell, and repair those goods. Jobs and consumption help stimulate the economy. If we become less materialistic, our economy may suffer, people may lose jobs and income, and that may make people less well-off financially. 

While I agree that production of some goods is necessary, overconsumption actually hurts the economy in the long run. Only companies or those at the top truly benefit from materialism. When we continue to purchase items we don't need and possibly cannot afford, both our personal finances and the economy suffer. How can we afford necessities if we've spent all of our funds on the latest iPhone and the coolest, new shoes? Our landfills fill up with old, often perfectly fine goods, harming the environment.

Society needs to deeper examine our gross habit of materialism, and explore ways n which we can puruse contentedness without depending on external items. In the end, things do not bring us happiness. They may give us a temporary fix, a brief high, and fleeting feelings of happiness, but the mental, financial, and overall cost of those goods is just too high. 



