At the end of the musical "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown," the cast sings about all the different things happiness is - from climbing a tree, to two kinds of ice cream, to walking hand in hand with a friend.  The song contains many different ways of being happy, but one thing is certain - it focuses on the fact that there are so many different ways to find happiness.  However, in my experience people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own personal goals rather than the happiness of others.

I am an educator.  I have devoted my life to working in service of others, specifically students.  I love getting to see my students be happy, and this brings a lot of meaning to my life - whether its seeing a student finally understand a tough math concept or write a strong thesis statement for the first time, or even when they share their own personal struggles with me and I help them to process those.  However, for the longest time, even after my most satisfying days at work, I would come home and find myself unhappy.  It took me many years (and some therapy) to realize that this was because I wasn't taking the time to have a balanced life that also focused on the things that made me happy.

My happiness has shifted now that I have chosen to focus on it.  Though I still take great joy in my job and in my students, having a list of my own focus areas and my own things that make me happy has made a world of difference in my own mental health.  Now, I can recognize that I need to have a personal goal in addition to my work with others to be happy.  For example, I recently set a goal to run and finish a half marathon.  Being able to train for and accomplish this goal made me feel a great deal of personal happiness.

I do not base this solely on my own personal experiences, however.  In the book 10% Happier, the author Dan Harris discovers that the way to his own increased happiness is by meditation and allowing himself to focus on his own thoughts and managing them. I believe this contributes to my idea that in order to be truly happy, people need to pay attention to what is going on inside themselves.  If you do not make the space for your own needs, goals, and emotions, you will not be as happy as you could be.

I am in no way advocating for ignoring the needs of others in your quest for happiness.  In fact, one of the things that I know makes me the happiest is spending time with friends and being able to support them when they need it.  However, if I do not also prioritize my own needs and happiness, I find myself imbalanced.  Knowing what brings me happiness and joy in my own personal life is critical for that balance.

Happiness is an elusive things, and something I believe we could use more of in today's modern world, and often it seems we have lost our way in finding it.  However, I believe that focusing on your own personal goals - not dictated by anything the world tells you is right- is the key to your own happiness.  Get to know yourself and what brings you happiness, and you are much more likely to find it.  At the end of the song, Charlie Brown and his friends sing "Happiness is anyone or anything at all that's loved by you." He has it right- focusing on what you love will bring you the most joy.  At the end of the day, if you don't keep an eye on your own personal goals, you may lose yourself and what makes you happy.

