In this writing, I will discuss what causes happiness. Is it focusing on yourself and what you want that makes someone happy? Is it focusing on happiness around you that pulls you into happiness? I believe there is a combination at play here, that there is a balance, and when it is struck, there you will find ultimate happiness. 

I believe that each person's happiness is dependent on both of these conditions. I think that we each have to find within ourselves what will make us truly happy, and then go do that! I also believe that if we do not also recognize that being kind to those around us also produces happiness, not only in ourselves, but in those we are around, then we aren't fully capturing all that happiness can be. 

For example, if all I do is focus on the happiness of others, then sure, I may feel good about that and the people I'm surrounded with will hopefully feel good about that too. But, if I'm only focusing on that, and not allowing myself to look within and see what I want for myself, there is a piece missing. On the flip side - if I only focus on my happiness, then I am missing out all that can be found in the happiness of others. 

I know many will say that if you are happy, then you will project that happiness. But I don't think that's the case for everyone. I think some people, once they find themselves with their personal happiness, disregard the happiness of others because we have it. And those who only focus on others will say that that is enough, as long as others are happy. However, I believe if they truly looked within, they would see the need to find their own internal happiness, not just external. 

In conclusion, I believe we must strike a balance. Find what makes you happy, and then go do it and spread that happiness to those surrounding you! If you do one and not the other, you are missing out on a major piece of all life and happiness has to offer. It is important for our own personal happiness to find what drives us within ourselves, but it is equally important that we share that with the world and help others find that happiness as well. 
