There has always been a debate surrounding the idea of materialism. Is it alright to be at least somewhat materialistic, or should we be looking to free ourselves from the constraints of simple possessions? Should the common person look at modern society with the intention to critique the materialistic nature of it all? The answer is no. It is perfectly fine for people to be materialistic, as long as they are able to balance their material gains with being a human being.
To start with, the society of the United States requires a person to at least somewhat work to produce and consume stuff. If a person does not participate in this game of sorts, they will not be able to make it in the world. It is the epitome of "survival of the fittest." Now, with this in mind, it is difficult to criticize a person for holding some value in material possessions. At the same time, there is something a person could consider as being too materialistic. This would be a person who throws away their compassion and humanity in order to increase their personal gains. An example of this would be a billionare CEO who profits off of the hard earned work of those underneath them. These are the people who are mistakenly used to define the idea of materialism, when in reality, that is just a person who has made the material world their entire identity. It is not fair to condemn an entire part of the human identity because of the actions of a specific few who abuse their power.
If there is a balance between humanity and materialism, there is no reason to critique modern society for being materialistic. It is human nature as long as that is not all that a person cares about. More atention should be placed upon those who use their possessions to help others rather than those who sit on their piles of gold, like a dragon upon his hoard. By doing so, it will show the good sides of human materialism and the pros that some with it, rather than just focusing only on the negatives which the current society so love to do. Why give those that abuse the concept of materialism all the attention, when society has the potential to benefit from the concept? 

