Images and impressions have a major effect on people. Sometimes it is a good thing and sometimes it is not. Did you ever try to fix something at home and you were grateful for a picture that quickly communicated the instructions in a way that was easy to understand? Did you ever find yourself looking at a picture of a beautiful person and wishing you could bring yourself up to those standards? These are just a few ways that images and impressions have an effect on us and it is easy to see from those examples how they are sometimes good and, sometimes not.

It's easy to jump to the conclusion that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people and that it is a bad thing. Today, our society has so many images and impressions bombarding us from our mobile phones, tablets, e-readers, and televisions. Now, even the refrigerated cases at the pharmacy have screens on them with images of products that are colorful, clean and great looking all stocked inside. We could even make an argument that the extreme volume of images coming at us is actually beneficial in honing our discernment skills. Many of us have experienced a valuable lesson at a young age when we were caught up in the excitement of a commerical for a food or toy and then after receiving it, realizing that the commercial was way more fun than the item itself.

Let's not jump to conclusions. Let's not say that images and impressions are inherently good or bad. Let's simply focus on what value they do provide and control what we allow into our world. We have control over what magazines we buy. We have control over what and how much media we consume. We also have control over our reactions to images we see. If it is supposed to be for entertainment but something about it is bothering you, then simply do not watch it. If it is bothering you enough then voice your concerns and be a mindful consumer and do not let your dollars go to something that is problematic. 

So don't worry about how many images are out there. Don't worry about their impact. Use them when they are a valuable tool when that is true. Continue to engage in the discussions when the images are problematic. 
