The 21st century has brought the world and humanity much further in the technological advancement of goods, services, and ammenities. People have started to place more trust in products and people in advertisements and marketing as the capabilities to share information with the public have greatly improved. Unfortunately, the rapid spread of information and ease of marketing that has emerged in the past 22 years has not come without consequences. Companies marketing products and people in the public eye have figured out how to take advantage of the media and advertising. The public has also began to be fooled by the appearance of advertising and marketing and sometimes don't realize what's underneath the shell of goods, services, and people. 

In capitalist countries like the United States of America, marketing is a crucial way to push an idea, campaign, or product. In the past, corporations and public figures have had a more fair chance to push their ideas and products with word of mouth, simple ads, and newspapers. With the emergence of the internet and the speed of which technology has improved in the past decade, it is increasingly easy to market an idea or product to many people very quickly. The problem is that large corporations have began to emerge and defeat competitors because they market their ideas much more quickly, due to their increased amount of monetary resources to use. Large corporations such as Walmart and Amazon can use events like Amazon Prime Day, or their massive amount of locations (in the case of walmart) to advance their image. Walmart, for example, expresses their  ability to provide goods at low prices, but people sometimes don't realize that the goods being sold are of low quality and not manufactured in the U.S. Although they are able to hold their favorable impression of the best grocery store to shop at, they have aggresively trumped local businesses and beat out every competitor in their way to gain as much profit as possible. Amazon, has also done the same to other online competitors over the past decade. Although Walmart and Amazon have greatly increased the convenience and affordability of goods for the majority of Americans, they have not done so without falsely pushing a favoriable image of their corporations and providing good-looking, yet low-quality goods. 

Advertising not only is being used to push the image of corporations and their goods and services, but also to promote people's ideas and campaigns. The prominence of advertising for politicians running for public office has grown immensely in the past 2 decades. Unfortunately, the tone of these advertisements not only attempts to promise the public actions they will take such as lowering emissions and taxes, but also often undermines the image of their opponent. Even more problematic, these ads do successfully sway the opinions of many people, and the polticians that do win their seat for office, sometimes do not actually fulfill the promises they have made. The image of politicians seems to matter more than their actual character and actions. Additionally, public figures and entertainers tend to use social media to paint light on their opinions and achievements. For example, some actors/actresses like to promote charitable donations they have made, or community service they have done on outlets such as Twitter and Instagram. However, a lot of times these public figures only do so for personal gain and to look better in the public light. This also tends to happen soon after negative information or news is released about the public figure in specific. Although images and impressions on social media by public figures can be used to promote good causes and be done in good faith, many times personal gain is the motive.

Images and appearances tend to sway people who don't understand when they can be used in ill-manner or when they are untruthful. With the rise of the ability to market, advertise, share images due to immense technological advances, people must learn how to distinguish between lies and truth. We must learn to know when good and services are of good quality and not just purchase what looks best because of what we have seen in advertising and marketing campaigns. We need to vote and advocate for public figures and politicians that have good track records and will execute on their promises. Those without education and knowledge of psychology may be affected too much by images and impressions of people.
