It's obvious there are different forms of happiness. There is the personal happiness one feels for themselves, and the altruistic happiness they feel for others and humanity. I feel on the whole, people are more happy if they focus on the personal goals and happiness for themselves, instead of the happiness of others. The reasons being: they have accomplished some personal acheivement and the sense of satisfaction that comes with it. They have overcome certain obstacles along the way to get to their goal, so the goal and the struggle or journey to reach it has more meaning and personal value. Lastly, the goal in itself is enough to make the person happy. 

While altrustic and unselfish happiness is a wonderful and selfless thing. Something many of us do feel, because the majority of people are caring and concerned with the welfare and happiness of others. I feel people are most likely to be happy when focused on themselves personally. This is for many reasons, one because they have personally accomplished this goal of happiness. They have worked hard, sacrificed, and done what they need to do in order to reach what will make them happy. So it brings them a sense of accomplishment, pride, and satisfaction at reaching this goal. 

Second reason is the satisfaction of overcoming any obstacles or problems along the way of obtaining their goal (happiness). It shows strong will and character. The person is not broken down by the problems, work, or pain they may have faced, but continued to work hard. It builds character and makes one stronger. Therefore attaining this goal of happiness has much more personal meaning. For example, if you don't have a high paying job, but really want to go on vacation. You decide to save a litttle of your paycheck every month. At the end of the year, you can afford to go on a vacation. It may have been difficult to set some money aside every month. You could easily have spent it on quick pleasures that bring satisfaction right away, or even certain necessities. Instead you showed self discipline and saved the money. A the end of the year, you are reaping the benefits of an enjoyable vacation. 

Lastly the goal in itself is the happiness they wanted. Whatever it may be, losing weight, running a marathon, completing college, buying their first house or car, etc. The happiness comes from whatever act or possession they were working towards. Sometimes the end result is not what the person was expecting, and there are a few who were unhappy with their goal. But most people feel happiness once they reach their end goal. 

I understand the happiness of others is a great and wonderful thing. Donating to charities, helping someone who has some physical problem cross the street, giving a friend or loved one a gift, etc. They are all wonderful experiences and the warm feelings we feel inside from having done something good, kind, moral, and making a difference in another person's life is a great feeling. But I admit, much of mankind is selfish and it is much easier for us to focus on ourselves than on others. The self gratification we feel when doing something for ourselves comes a little quicker. The feelings of happiness come faster and are easier to feel when we do for ourselves.

In conclusion, I do feel people are more likly to be happy if they focus on themselves and their personal goals and wants, than focusing on the happiness of others, helping others etc. It's a little difficult to admit as we want to believe we are selfless people and would much rather help or do for someone else than for ourselves. But in an imagined scenerio, if given one hundred dollars, and you were given the choice to keep it for yourself and spend it on whatever you wanted (buying an expensive item, going to fancy dinner, paying off a loan, etc.) or giving it to someone who was poor and homeless or donate it to a charity. What would you do? I think most people would keep it for themselves. If we were to be very honest. 

 
