Materialism is a relative metric because it can only apply to a certain subset of individuals who hold wealth and/or influence. With the introduction of globalized industrialization, modern societies have become augmented with a boon of mass-produced goods and resources. As regional markets continue to globalize and international industries continue to mature, more and more people will be able to afford a wider variety of goods. While there are concerning displays of exuberance and materialism within western societies, it can be argued that a larger percentage of global consumers are not materialistic.

In modern times, more humans around the world are exiting a position of poverty than ever before. These people have every right to consume as any other affluent western individual out here. I am trying to say that there needs to be a distinction; Increased consumption should not be confused with materialism. As a lot of global societies modernize and develop, it is very likely that their level of consumption will increase too. It is a bit disingenuous to write this newfound prosperty off as "materialism."

At the same time, these arguments fall apart when you use a western lens. If we consider affluent American families, like the Kardashians or the Pauls, then we can see grotesque levels of materialism on full display. In these circumstances, materialistic behavior should be criticized and ridiculed. While I listed celebrities, there are many affluent and powerful families who influence US federal and state policy which either show indifference or disdain towards working class Americans.  People like the DeVos family are actively destroying American institutions while flaunting dozens of boats and luxury goods. These people influenced children's education policy for four years.

Materialism is a relative metric. For example, we cannot assume a society is becoming increasingly materialistic just because it is garnering economic prosperity. At the same time, people who hold positions of power and flaunt their power, money, or influence should likely be criticized for their exuberance. Grotesque displays of wealth and infleunce only act as a warning sign of the disparties in a modern society. 
