This essay will address the question of what causes people to be happy. Is happiness caused by only focusing on ourselves and setting goals for ourselves and then achieving them? Or, is happiness based on investing in others and seeing that they are happy?

We all want to be happy. We all have dreams that we would love to achieve. Most of us do have goals that we work very hard to accomplish. It is good to have goals and dreams and then watch our progress in achieving them. But, does this really create happiness? It can create a sense of accomplishment, but does it really bring happiness? In my personal experience, when I only focus on myself, there is an emptiness that comes that hampers happiness. Sometimes there is disapointment when we don't achieve those goals, and then there are times when we do achieve them and we might experience a sense of satisfaction, but does this bring true happiness? Many times when we are only reaching for our own goals, we tend to set the bar higher and constantly create new goals to reach. This can make us feel like we are always in a rat race and there is no end to the race.

As a society, it seems that we have become quite self-centered. We just want to think about ourselves and do what we want to do. Are we a happier society when we do these things? I don't think so. Back in the older days, people were disciplined and taught to work very hard, but it was not only for themselves but for the good of their family and sometimes the community. There is something more fulfilling about working for someone or something that is bigger than ourselves. I find myself to be the happiest when I am not just looking out for the big "I" and using all my time trying to achieve my own goals. Thinking about others and especially those who are the closest to us, such as our spouse, family members and church family and doing things that can help them and bring happiness to them seems to be thing that brings me the most happiness.

In conclusion, doing things only for self and fulfilling our own dreams might bring an element of personal satisfaction, but not necessarily happiness. Many times happiness comes from doing things for others. Think of the child that is cold and hungry. This might bring feelings of compassion and pity in our heart for this child. After finding some food and a nice warm blanket for the child and hearing the words of thankfulness from that child and seeing how much more comfortable they are will bring much happiness to the heart. Doing things for others will always bring more happiness than just serving ourselves.

