Our modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic.  My reasons for such a statement are less mainstream than a typical critique might raise.

Let's agree that Materialism is defined as spending money or otherwise using influence to acquire possessions.  It is these possessions that are the material in Materialism.  However, I want to examine the pursuit of certain strata of those possessions as the damning behavior that is negatively impacting our society.

At a basic level, we as a society work to earn money, collect favors, acquire influence, and build skills largely in pursuit of solving for our basic needs (first).  Taking great liberties to use Maslow's work on a hierarchy of needs, I'll simplify that we pursue possessions for two reasons.  First, to survive and service our basic needs.  But, Second, we pursue Esteem Drivers - those possessions that have intrinsic value as social tools for impressing ourselves and others.  Let's explore examples of those Esteem Drivers as an area of negative impact to society.

We may find that we need a car or vehicle to get to work, support our family, and get things done.  At a basic level, Henry Ford's "can have a car any color as long as it is black" is a pragmatic way to think about the vehicle.  Meaning, frills, options and exotic embellishment to the vehicle do not generally make the vehicle more fit for its basic purpose.  We spend more money on more expensive options for our cars to express our personality, to advertise our personal wealth, to outperform others on the road, to express our ecologically forward thinking attitude, and countless other forms of automotive expressionism.

Likewise, a purse or satchel/backpack are functional items.  At a simple level, their basic function can be fulfilled cheaply and reliably without adornment, embellishment, or brand name extravagence.  Yet, again, we observe that there are items in this product category that - in terms of price, scale, and adornment - are wildly beyond being functionally valuable.  Interestingly, in some cases, the expression of adornment or enrichment can actually render the purse/satchel unusable for its base purpose.  But we see pursuit of these possessions reaching frenzied levels because of the mental value derived from having the item in one's possession.

So, as we explore the negative effect of Materialism, I raise the challenge that thinking in terms of Material goods as expressions of our Self Esteem is where the gross negativity of competitive Materialism leads us into some pretty dark spaces.  We over-acquire and over-spend to express our souls and egos through our possessions.  We deem a product important because it isn't a basic rendition of its purpose but rather that is newer, more different, or more rare.  In these cases, we are consuming resources to produce these Esteem Driver goods and then acting the market to acquire these goods - to our detriment on both sides of the transaction.

Some will argue that our current economic and employment structures - advertising, manufacturing, media, sales, logistics - would fall apart if we had some kind of massive mind-shift to pursuing more functional goods with less "Esteem" built into them.   Perhaps that's actually the real question!   Have we built an indstrial complex that, in many cases, is geared for producing needless crap that ultimately is an expression through possessions rather than the possessions having any real, unique merit?

If we tone down our Materialism, might we encounter a painful economic impact if we decide we don't need any more Prada bags or Escalade trucks?   Or might a change to the more pedestrian and functional versions of items actually help our society look at more compelling and actionable topics like global warming, curing cancer, space exploration that would far more benefit humankind than collecting plastic Star Wars toys.




