In my point of view,the competition is the way of task or event to show the skills infront of many other peoples.it makes us energytic and also  well satisfied person.the quality of persons  behaviour showed infront of genrol audience.it may be sometime disappointing somebodies due to the  defet or lost.
but the competition only doesn't deserves the best performance of the human beings.because good personalities are does not shows their best activities to the world arrogantly or unwantedly.they are always showing their best attitude very polite and humble manner.so the person who did not participated any events which not means  a bad person or untalented persons.the realtime behaviour revealed thier value in this society.because competition makes some time unnecessary conflict among the people.
the competition and cooperations are more importants in human life.because the the world successfully running for the billions of years only my the cooperation among the every souls.the dependancy should be continues over and over the years repeatedly. so to be the successful person in the world must be the habit that cooperate with others.
to enjoy the life or make life interesting is another important thing in our life.then only evryday life will be very happy to all the souls.for that lot of cooperation and limited amount of competitions need.
so i cnclude that to get refreshment in our life ,the interesting competitions needed.and also to live healthy and wealthy life we have to change our personal attitude.we have to adjust with others who are supporting in our life.because the human life is not permanent.it is very limited time period of life.so we should live our live happily.
we always think about needy people  in throughout the world.because they are struggling their day to day life for the regular food needs.
humanity is important .it will makes cooperations to the entire world.i just want to give some  explanations.
while doing a new projects by the team member ,there may be a lot conflicts,disappointments ,some of misunderstanding happens on there.at that time we are all understood and give their full previleged support to their entire team members to  success of the projects.
because at that time competition doesn't work on it.perhaps it makes unnecessary conversation among the team.so we always remember that we are all have emotions and good brain to process the problem wheather it was good or bad.
the real time always has both happy and sad moments.we should take both as neutral and same value.then only we can survive the life very long term.
the day to life is belongs to the nature and it's participants.so we always protect nature to support animals,birds etc.
by doing this we could maintain the beautiful nature system and healthy food chain.
and water saving is another on of the important process to survive in the world.because without water there is no souls live here.
the very essential aspects of living humans are air,water,light. so we are the people responsible for the whole world protection.
by regular changing attitude and behaviour of our life,we can live our life very peacefully.
and make this globe very happiest planet in the galaxy.it will be very useful for the next generaion.
i think i clearly explained about the topic very cleary with full satisfacted mind.
these informations are all about my own opinion and ideads.
thank you. 
