The current state of thought on how people obtain happiness is split down the middle. Some choose to follow their own goals for happiness and some focus on improving the lives of others in order to find happiness. Although both ideas are believed to be necessary in order for one to find happiness, humans must do one before the other. This paper argues that people are more likely to be happy if their personal goals are met before focusing on the happiness of others.

Growing up, one of the first things they teach in school is to find your passion in life. Finding our passion and what makes our world light up is the best way to find happiness for yourself. Having a personal dream and goal for yourself gives a person something to look forward to and something to always be working towards. This dream is specific to each person and their personality so it is the best way for them to find personal happiness. What one person finds for happiness and what another finds will not be the same thing so it is important that we individualize the way we get there. 

For some people, their personal dream and passion may be helping others. For those individuals, although they are helping others, they still have a personal goal. Whether that is finding a career that helps people or something else. If they were to only focus on other people's happiness and not their own, people may end up neglecting their own personal care and their happiness could potentially suffer. By ignoring their own happiness to focus on others, although kind, may damage an individuals motivation to help themselves. In order to negate this, human beings need to focus on improving their personal happiness if they want to improve the happiness of others.  

Although it is argued that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals than on the happiness of others, it doesn't mean both can't occur at the same time. One may help others find happiness as long as they have a solid foundation for their own persoanl happiness. Once that foundation is present, a person can work towards their happiness and others happiness moving forward. In conclusion, people are more likely to be happy if they focus on personal goals but may also find happiness from improving the happiness of others.
