Our society is based on materialism.  It is not healthy to the extent it has enveloped our society.  One needs only to look at the insidious rat race our nation has become to see this and the detremental effects it has.  Materialism and the system of capitalism has shifted our morals to accomplish its goals of always attaining more and never being happy with what one has.  The drive to "get more" is prevailing , though in America this drive does not necessarily lead to happiness as there are many more countries around the globe that rank as happier than we do.  Why is that?

Some critics may argue that happiness and materialism or consumerism are not related though the proof they offer rarely is convincing.  When we look at the happiest countries we see that consumerism or materialism is not high on their priorities list.  

Being content with what one has is hard to do in a society built on throwing the old away and getting the newest, best, and brightest thing.  Though we can, if we so choose shape our society in as different way.  We could prioritze wellbeing above the consumption of things.  We could focus on what is best for all of us and not continuing to focus on acquiring more things.  This would take a wholesale shift in our focus as a country, though in my opinion, a much needed shift.  

We must prioritize people over property.  We must prioritze the wellbeing of all our people over the wealth of a few.  We can change from this self-centered materialism that we've found ourselves living in but it will take all of us to make it happen.  

There is no reason that in 2022 that we have a homeless problem in this country.  There is no reason that we cannot fix that problem other than greed.  There is no reason that medical costs lead to so many bankruptcies.  We can fix that if we together agree that it should be fixed.  

Materialism is a problem in this country but not an insurmountable one.  We can shake the chains of selfish consumerism, but doing so would take all of us taking a long look in the mirror and asking, "Am I willing to be less selfish to help everyone?"  Asking ourselves that question is hard, but it is necessary if we are to become the happy, free,  egalitarian country we can be.  And we must before it is too late.  

For many of our brothers and sisters it is already too late.  Poverty, disease, and suicide have taken too many of our friends and loved ones already.  Poverty is materialism's dirty little secret.  Because for many to consume, some must subsist at a poverty level and we cannot allow that to continue.  

In a thousand years our descendants will look back in disgust at how we treated the poor among us. But it doesn't have to be that way.  We do have the power to reign in materialism and help all of us.  But it will take all of us to make the changes we need.    
