People, especially in the 21st century, are obssessed with the idea of happiness. Our right to pursue it is enshrined in the American Constitution. Philosophers have grappled with the question for millenia. Thousands, if not millions, of self-help books have been written regarding the topic. Happiness and fulfillment tend to get somewhat conflated; we expect that anyone who is happy is having a fulfilled life and vice versa. For those craving happiness, advice tends to fall in two different general buckets: 1) make yourself happy or 2) make other people happy.

This is a false dichotomy that ignores the symbiotic relationship between focusing on your own goals and facilitating other people's happiness. Anyone who focuses on only their own happiness, to the exclusion of others, is going to find themselves very lonely (and consequently probably very unhappy). Similarly, anyone who focuses solely on the happiness of others (and ignores their own needs or wants) is going to go the way of the Giving Tree and find themselves rather quickly tapped out and unable to facilitate anyone's happiness, including their own. Like most important things in life, the key to attaining happiness is to strike a balance between taking care of others and taking care of yourself. If you focus for too long on exclusively yourself, or others, you will inevitably find your overall happiness decreasing.

Whether you need to focus more on yourself or others to increase your happiness is a moment-by-moment personal calculus. In general, I recommend that the calculus begin with a rigorous self-inventorying. Consider your general overall mood and wellbeing. If it's above a five out of ten, you likely have some mental and emotional bandwidth to focus on the happiness of others today. If it's lower than a five out of ten, you may want to consider focusing on yourself and your own self-care. One of the easiest ways to increase your overall happiness is simply becoming more self-aware. Being more self-aware will help you make better decisions about whether, in any particular moment, you should be focusing more on your own needs and goals or other peoples'. Becoming more self-aware also enables you to better facilitate other people's happiness; the better you understand yourself and your own needs, the better you'll be able to understand other people.

Of course, there are exceptions to this general advice. There do exist outliers in the human population that, for whatever reason, derive very little happiness from caring about themselves, or others. Mother Thersa is an obvious example of someone who seemed to care about herself and her own goals minimally, but still was outwardly very happy. From her private writings that were released posthumously, however, we now know that she was racked by crises of faith. Perhaps this is partly what motivated her to be so outwardly caring about others. There is little one can do concretely to solidfy their own faith in the supernatural. But, there is an almost infinite amount of concrete things you can do to demonstrate care and compassion for the least fortunate around you. It's reasonable to infer that Mother Theresa's focus on the happiness of others was also a means (consciously or unconsciously) of self-care. Charity is a common, laudable way we address existential angst.

Indeed, the idea of "reciprocal altruism" is a very persuasive explanation of the origins of morality. If we push the assumptions in the question back a few steps (i.e. to "Why do people care about making other people happy in the first place?"), the answer becomes obvious. We are social creatures. Our successes and failures are linked in innumerable and unfathomable ways to the successes and failures of almost everyone else in our lives. With this truism, it becomes self-evident that we must be willing to facilitate the happiness of others if we expect to be happy ourselves. Indeed, most economic exchanges can be reduced in this way: when you buy groceries, you make your grocer happy and he makes you happy. The primary reason you are buying the groceries is because you have a personal goal (to eat that day), but--since you rely on other people to eat--you have the secondary consequence of enriching the lives of the people you rely on.

The acknowledgement that your happiness depends, at least in part, on your ability to make others happy can be an embarassing or uncomfortable thought. But instead, try to let it be a reassuring one. Part of the reason you're still here (able to read what I'm writing right now) is because you have made and continue to make other people happy. If you want to maximize your own happiness, it obviously behooves you to develop that skill and talent--not just for others' sake, but for your own. Seeking happiness isn't a binary choice between "Do I focus on making myself happy?" or "Do I focus on making others happy?" If you want to make yourself as happy as possible as consistently and log as possible, you will also spend time reflecting on how to facilitate the happiness of others. There's an old saying that can be adapted to many questions of life, ethics, and happiness: If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far (or for a long time), go together.


