The only thing that seems to be important for a majority of people nowadays, it how many social media clicks and engagements they have every day. Even more people know of this fact, and still continue to post pictures of themselves online for likes. Hell, even my grandpa posts pictures of himself online now and then.

These things are not, on their own, negative things. People love to share beautiful locations, how they have improved on a diet, or in the gym, and people just want connection. The question being asked, is do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. I think the straight answer here is almosts certainly yes; but there are thousands of rabbit holes to go down for a true answer. Today we will be diving into one of those rabbit holes.

You've seen it before...a teenager posts a picture of themselves online for engagement. Simple. But then the comments roll in..."why would you post this" "who are you" "you're ugly" etc. Negative hurtful words that have more of an impact today than ever. M0st kids only judge themselves based on their social media following. If they are failing online, they are failing in life. We know that's not true, but teenager are at the most impressionable years of their lives.

Cyber bullying is not just limited to photos however, any post can be a target for hate and mockery. I belive overall socaial media is definitely not doing enough to combat how much that is not real. But I understand that it has completely been engrained into our daily lives. I believe that there are many routes involved in preventing cyber bullying.

In conclusion, I absolutely thing images and impressions have an impact on people. Just look at the way people dress and act around you all day. How many people do you know that could swap wardrobes and nobody would know because they are so similar. Or how many people identify themselves as a "sigma" or "karen" or any other label. People don't often decide their own labels, its more commonly shown to them from a movie or ad. Just look at how many Jokers and Harley Quinns there were for Halloween!




