It is true that our modern society is materialistic, but is this overindulgence or simply necessity? There is a tipping point where the focus on material items overtakes any semblence of a meaningful existence, and unfortunately this is where we are at in the modern era. Exploring the nuances of this topic is just as important as having awareness of it's existence. 

While it is true that materialism is necessary- after all, we all benefit from cars, houses, clothes, the ability to travel, etc- at what point does it become too much? As technology has advanced, social media has become a household staple, and people have easier and cheaper access to needless material items. As a result, the materialistic urges of the average person has increased. It is one thing to desire to have money in order to see the world and travel to experience different cultures, and yet another to spend hundreds of dollars a month on something like fast fashion clothes that are dumped into the trash a couple months after the consumer is tired of the trend they bought into. This is not to mention how materialistic items are often created at the expense of the degradation of resources and the harm of humans through sweatshop work, as well as the abuse of animals to create many of the products that we take for granted. We are reaching a point in our existence where we need to make a decision: is the advancement of our souls (or, more secularly worded, creating a meaningful life) more important than all the various reasons we contribute to materialism? 

It is important to note that materialism is something that has various points of support. Many people are materialistic because they are using it to advance their true desires, which is an endeavor worthy of praise. Others do it for reasons of low self esteem- to be seen as better by others. There are many who have a full blown addiction to different materialistic items for reasons of escapism, numbing, and masking the pain. In these cases, the human cannot advance in any sort of meaningful way because they are ignoring issues that should be addressed in order to truly overly them.

Both sides of the issue can be argued, as is true with any other topic out there. However, which side shows the most depth, the most meaning, and the most objective truth? Obsession with items which not only don't matter in the grand scheme of things, but can even be detrimental to one's evolution, should not be something we are striving for as individual members of a society or as society as a whole. We owe it to ourselves to put our time, energy, and yes, even money, into things that can advance us to higher states of awareness, connection, being, empathy, and growth. Staying stagnant because you are stuck in a materialistic mindset is not only negative for you, but it is negative for all the people around you that are affected by your superficiality.

Materialism also creates this unneccesary deviation in the "haves" and "have nots". People are made to feel unworthy because they do not have as much as the next person, and this can result in a lack of self worth and self esteem. The ironic thing, is that many of the "haves" have the same lack of self worth and self esteem, but do not notice it because they are covering up their pain and soul's frustation of lack of authenticity with material items. In both cases, they are truly unfulfilled. This is the way society keeps themselves stagnated by propping up materialism as being far more important than it actually is.

In conclusion, anything and everything should be criticized, but that doesn't equate to full condemnation in it's entirety. We are responsible as humans to hold up a mirror to each other and ask the difficult questions. Just as food is necessary for human life, we do not need to eat in excess until we are morbidly obese. The same goes for any type of materialism. The need for material items is not an excuse for excess. If we want to advance as a society, we must realize what we are doing in order to avoid our issues. If we can do that, the human race will be truly unstoppable. 
