Materialism is often synonymous with not being satisfied. There is always something new, something more improved, and our materialistic society dictates that in order to be happy, we need to constantly buy new things. It often brings out competitve and manipulative behaviors in people, and it is absolutely encouraged by the fake lives people post to social media. I think we need to take a hard look at how materialism affects the people around us, and what it is doing to the planet.
When a person is insecure, they tend to focus on outward displays of financial success. A person who is obsessed with having the shiniest sports car or the newest gaming console before anyone else may be indulging in a hobby, but they also may be worried about how they are perceived by the people around them to an unhealthy degree. Life is full of fancy things, but it isn't satisfying and does not bring them lasting happiness. In fact, materialism makes you more at risk for anxiety and depression, especially if your intent is to find happiness in inanimate objects. If you put material success above true happiness, you are less likely to actually achieve any lasting happiness. If you see no other way to validate your self worth other than to buy and buy and have outward displays of success, you can never be truly happy.
The phrase "money is the root of all evil" does not truly explain materialism. People who are poor will absolutely gain happiness if they are able to increase their income to the point of not living paycheck to paycheck. However, setting materialistic goals as someone whose financial situation is far from ideal may lead to lower levels of happiness. Often, materialistic goals have no endpoint. The goal of "having more money" may lead someone to become discouraged because the goalpost is always moving, and it encourages more and more materialism. The problem with money is that it brings happiness for a short time, but that happiness is fleeting, and leaves you craving more and more. Money is an addictive substance; you need more in order to get the same amount of pleasure you got from that first time.
Materialism is not biological; it is a consequence of the consumerism we have normalized. We are bombarded with advertisements telling us we will look cooler, be adored, have an elevated status, or something else that would increase our quality of life. It is only from within that you can find true lasting happiness. It is also only from within that you can change how dependent and manipulated you are by the desire to buy more and more.
