A young man walks into a store and peruses sections of books, looking for entertainment. As he walks through the different genres, he keeps getting stopped by covers.  Vibrant colors, graphic images, and suggestive texts stop him and grab his attention.  He settles on a book that captures his attention and heads to the counter.  All the while, a group of similiarly aged individuals have been observing the young man.  Comments are shared as to his relationship, social, and overall status.  An older gentleman shakes his head as he overhears the conversations from the group.  He grumbles.  Looking dishevled, a younger lady is taken back back by his demeanor and misakes his grumbling to her passing by.  These short five minutes embrace the stints of impressions we have regarding individuals and lends itself to the old addage, "never judge a book by its cover."

Today's society is heavily reliant on appearance. An example of this would be placed towards retail packaged items.  Many products, such as beauty and food, are white labeled.  The idea is that the product is able to licensed and distributed as a different company's line or brand.  The purchasing company relies heavily on a branded effort of packing, appearance and marketing to promote its brand as superior to another.  Many times multiple companies are competing against each other with the same product. Customers rely heavily on these efforts to make an informed decision on buying.  Even the "pier reviewed rating systems" seem to be rigged as individuals constantly look for higher rated items, just to find out that these ratings are often bought.

Public figures, such as politicians and entertainers,  utilize a similiar approach to garner the public eye.  The employ a beavy of "white labeled" techniques to boost themselves through social media and other entertainment fields.  Staying abreast of social issues and immediately responding to what's in the curernt news cycle.   

These first impressions seldom leave individuals wishing to finish the story.  Often, the bar is set so high that the end user is dissapointed with the results. An elevation of perceived value tends to deflate and engorge dissapointment. Often evidenced in a book, the first chapters are so dull that the book ends up collecting more dust than glances.  Products enjoy a tumultous use and completely dissapear once they dissapoint the end user. Public figures are replaced with the newest and most flattering versions of their former selves.  Beyond that, when they appear as human as anyone with their own mistakes, they tend to fall from the good graces of the public at a most alarming rate.
 
Many persons would argue that all of this is simply a reflection of our capitalistic society, driven by pure economics.  More likely, it is driven by the wish experienced by most individuals to be relevant themselves.  Participating in the mayhem of marketing and social movement lets them stay relevant and be an active part of the ongoing story.  Some become disgruntled customers of their own choosing, others are forced out by their own inability to adapt with changes, and other enjoying rebelling against the system as a whole.  

Images and impressions do have too much effect on people. From a basic standpoint, we need food, shelter, and relationships.  Anything past this further complicates the story we're trying to have.  The issue is just like the. young man, we love the adventure of finding the book that does interest us.  Not all book covers are dissapointing.  Essentially, the human condition will continue to look for more book covers to add to the thrill of living, building one's own book cover.



