     It is hard not to be materialistic these days.  I struggle with it myself.  Modern society just has so many things to acquire from simple household items to private jets.  Technology has led to the rapid expansion of products in warp speed.  The possibilities are endless for new inventions, while time is not limitless.
     Is it wrong to want these things?  Is modern society too materialistic?  It quite possibly is, because people are never satisfied.  In trying to aquire material things, people can overlook more important things like love and family, the old can't see the forest for the trees concept.  There is a lot to be said for just spending time talking and enjoying nature.  
     Another problem is that things keep improving so it is never possible to have everything.  People become addicted to the chase of getting things and once they get them, they have to chase the next thing.  It is hard to relax if you're always chasing the unattainable.  Envy comes into play as it is part of human nature and it is hard not to want what others have.
     Some would say that it is not wrong to be materialistic and having material things brings happiness, but there are many cases in history that show that is not the case.  Some of the richest people are the most unhappy.   Some would say that having material things simplifies life, but then these things need managed and repaired and end up ultimately making things more complicated.   Some say there is nothing wrong with paying outrageous prices for designer things that have arbitrary prices set by how much the rich can afford, but how can this be justified when there are children starving all over the world? 
     I'm afraid modern society does have it wrong.  Many inventive products are beneficial, but the aquistion of such items needs to be balanced with other activities such as simple time spent with loved ones and walks outside.  For every extremely expensive item, people need to donate time, money or older things to charity.  People need to learn to be happy with what they have no matter what their neighbors have.  It is a hard concept that will take some work, but I think society can learn it.  In the old days, people didn't have time to covet items as all energy was expended on survival.  I don't want things to go back to that as I do love modern conveniences, but I wish I could work less to have more meaningful time.  
