Why should people acquire material possessions? Do they help us or harm us, or a combination of both? There are many factors that go into materialism, and some are good, and some are not so good. We sometimes feel, especially in our modern society, that we need "to keep up with the Joneses" and have what they have. To make people envy us, want to be us, want to be friends with us - in effect, to portray ourselves as something we WANT to be and not necessarily something that we actually are. So is materialism good or bad?

One way to look at materialism, is that it can and does help our economy. By working and spending our money on goods, we help others. We help those companies that make the goods to employ people, provide them with benefits such as health insurance and a good salary to support their family. That money not only goes to the cost of the goods, but back into the communities, supporting the stores that sell the goods, providing more jobs. However, there can be a limit to what is good materialism and what is not good.

We have all seen the shows featuring people who hoard a lot of stuff. Many of the items are, in fact, worthwhile goods, but they just have way too much of them. Clothing, for example, is a widely hoarded item. This is an example of materialism that is not good. It is out of control and actually harms the person and possibly their loved ones and neighbors. They may spend so much money on material goods that they are now broke and not able to afford basic needs, such as good food, electricity and running water in their homes. Children may suffer from a lack of toys and items to interact with, and hoarding may become so severe, as to make a home uninhabitable and very unsanitary. There are many reasons why people hoard, mostly due to a mental illness or severe trauma, but it should be understood that this kind of materialism, is not something that people aspire to or want to happen.

People want to acquire goods for many other reasons as well. Many people have hobbies that they like to pursue, and this leads them to acquire goods that can only be used for that purpose. Take, for instance, someone who likes to go fishing. This is obviously not something the majority of people can do at their house, so they have to acquire goods to help them to fish. They acquire rods and reels, fishing tackle, tackle boxes, fishing line and other items to help them catch fish. Then they may be unsatisfied with just fishing from a shoreline, so they decide to buy a boat. The person then needs to acquire more items to help them with the boat, such as safety gear and coolers for fish, possibly a marine radio, and many other items. This is just one example of materialism. While most people would not pursue this kind of materialism to this extent, and some would even say this is wasteful and unnecessary, others enjoy it and it brings them happiness. 

None of this makes materialism wrong. It just means it is different for everyone. Some people do love the simplicity of not acquiring many items and living a simple, uncluttered life, others thrive on having a lot of things. It may make them feel better when they compare themselves to how their parents lived, or their neighbors or friends. Neither is necessarily good or bad, but just how we all differ from each other in a modern society.

I believe that materialism can be good or bad, and we should not necessarily judge people on what they acquire, or even necessarily how much. Materialism can be the lifeblood of any economy. Yes, there will always be those that are too materialistic, and base friendships on comparisons of how much stuff people have. We know as a society that anything acquired in excess can be a sign of a mental health issue. Overall, however, I think materialism is one of those things that can be very beneficial, but like all things, should be done with moderation.
