In any common gathering place, if one sits around viewing the crowds long enough, they are sure to see multiplicities of personalities. They may be doing the same things, making the same choices in their consumption, wearing the same clothes, reciting the same songs, or even having the same conversations. This may seem like a paradox of our reality, but it is a condition imparted by the social medium we all share and the desperation that is caused by this imprint are laid bare. 

The duplicity of the personality is caused by the shared condition of multiple people. These people are exposed to imagery that solicits thier attention fufilling their basic needs. Often this imagery will decieve the view by associating the subsistance of that person with dependance on another. The images and impressions promoted by today's popular media will have severe consequence on the development of society.

Often, in any generation there is an arguement of the elders that the youth is too detached from the real world, or realty of their surroundings. The youth have always seemed to find a way to dissassociate themselves from their locality and associate themselves with the ideals of sexuality promoted by books, radio, television, and now the internet of alternative media. 

While, in the past, it has been a struggle to access the ideas that were distributed, due to the means of publication, today those ideas are thrust into the youth as a standard of participation. Dually, the access is as well, injected, promoting livid consumption for displays of fertility and courtship of prosperity. Often there is not variation in the narrative or direction of advertisement and conformation to the ideals becomes crowded.

If you were to think about the differences between prosperity in the rural and urban enviornments, you would easily come to the conclusion that urban prosperity is capped by the competition for goods that are imported from outside the city. In opposition the rural means of prosperity rely on ability to procure for one's self from nature and balance what is taken with what is used. 

The majority of advertisement is not present in rural settings. In fact, you might not see or hear an advertisement for months on end if you lived on a farm without broadcast. Even if you were to indirectly get a referral to products by your neighbours you would be given a verified and testable account rather than a production made not to be questioned.

The problem of these highly relatable advertisements is that they will promise to solve everyone's problems at once. If you can imagine hundreds of sick people crowding around a small store for the same medicine you realize very easily the concept of this imprinted and unspoken competition. The impressions we often recieve are images of 'the best' and only 'the best'. Advertisements are not topical or discussive, they will try to stear consumers away from alternatives so they can compound the profit made by scarcity.

Some might say, that advertisements are just trying to alleviate the burden of the unknowledgable people. Given weight, this fact would pander to the degredation of inherited knowledge of basic rites and cause more people to become dependant on mass dispensation of basic needs.

In totality, the projection of commercial ideas and impression have an unwanted and often unwelcoming effect on the youth. It has always been ill recieved by the older generations and will likely continue to be as such. It offers little more than degeneration of basic intellegence.
