There are numerous debates about many topics in today s business world. One of which deals with cooperation vs competition gets people more success. This is not an easy right or wrong topic. It is kinda like the saying which came first the chicken or the egg. One can easily debate both sides of the topic pretty easily.  However, if I had to choose one way I would say a person will be more successful if they cooperate with others than go against each other. 
Yes ,there are some situations like Olympics where competition is best and helps the althetes to push more harder longer than if they were not competing . These are situations which don't happen often and not for the general world population.  Actually, as I am thinking about it sports really is the only place competition really makes a huge impact on success compared to cooperating. 
Cooperation in my book especially will always be more effective and successful other than sports for people to obtain higher success. Cooperation is the key element in anyones life to become most successful. In the workplace you need to learn how to work with your co workers and team mates. You have to be able to cooperate with your boss. IF everyone was competiting with each other nothing would get done and it would be a circus so to speak.  If people can learn to cooperate and put their issues asside we could probably solve all the current problems. For example, Congress is always having republicans vs democrats and is always competing with each other. If they would cooperate and learn to compromise we could settle some major issues that we currently have. 
 In conclusion, Competition has always been around since Day 1 of anyone's  life.  This is especially true for twins triplets etc ,because they have to fight for the attention of their parents. I was fortunate to be an only child so I had limited competition in my household.  Am I lucky ? or is it better to have had competition in my life ? Would I have been more successful had I been in competition instead of always cooperating with the adults involved in my life.  God only really knows for sure , but as with all things there are good and bad points about everything. Finally, I trust in God and for me personally I know I prefer and succeed much better cooperating with others than in competition. 
