I believe people achieve more success by cooperating with each other rather than competing with each other. When I started my doctoral program, I had a very competitive mentality, mainly because there are not that many jobs available in academia. I believed that I could go farther in distinguishing myself by competing with and outdoing my cohort members. I held onto that belief for a year. However, I realized that behaving so competitively only alienated my cohort, and it made me feel lonely and not supported. I actually got behind in my school work and depressed. I realized I actually cared a lot about these people and I wanted them to succeed also. Also, doing everything alone was inefficient. Because of my shift from competition to cooperation, I was able to start projects with my cohort members and successfully complete them. I felt more inspired to get my work done. Competition stressed the bonds between me and my collaborators. In the end, collaboration made me feel fulfilled and happy, and the projects I worked on with others were the most successful.

There are significant costs to competing with others. When people are in a competitive mindset, they may withhold information from their coworkers. They may talk behind their coworker's back, or try to change other people's opinions of that person. They may try to belittle that person, or fail to recognize and adopt their good ideas. They may also avoid speaking up to provide help or feedback on other people's projects. Their focus is just on themselves and their own success, rather on the group and the group's success. Competitive people might change the culture and mood of an organization from a warm, supportive environment to one where people are afraid to speak up. In that case, people may choose to leave or find other organizations to join where their opinions can be heard and accepted.

In contrast, there are many benefits to cooperating with others. Groups often produce better results, as they average the wisdom of all the members. People have different expertise, different experiences, and when the burden is shared by everyone, the solution is often more likely to be correct and innovative. No big achievement was ever achieved truly alone, rather many people pitched in together to get the job done. It is true that competition can promote personal success, but it is granted at the expense of other people, whereas cooperation can promote group success, and may produce greater accomplishments since everyone can chip in and help complete the task. In short, cooperation is the solution to achieving long-lasting, significant results. 





