         Materialism is a fact in modern life, the accumulation of belongings seems to be an intrical part of our modern society. In earlier times people had very few posessions and worked very hard to accumulate those posessions. Now, in our current society, cheap chinese junk and rampant consumerism, as well as an increase in income, has led to a huge accumulation of belongings. Materialism is a major threat to our society.

       This accumulation has put a huge burden on the planet. People wanting to decorate and redecorate their homes causes a lot of trash. Accumulation of material posessions leads to the wanting and accumulation of more posessions, which also turns into more trash. Changing times and prosperity, allowing people to buy and consume more, and that leads to wasted resources and overflowing landfills. The planet simply can not handle the burden of unchecked materialism going on right now. This disposable society we find ourselves in, where things are thrown away rather than being repaired when they malfunction, is going to destroy the planet.

       In simplier times in the USA people might have only owned two pairs of pants and a couple of shirts and they would wear them until they had to be replaced. Land fills were not a problem back then and the planet had far fewer people to support. Currently, some people have walk in closets with enough clothes to fully dress an entire orphanage. We have an abundance of choices to shop from and there is always something new to be aquired. With this ability to both afford more and to have more choices, we mindlessly fill our closets with clothes we seldom wear and we fill out kitchens with gadgets we seldom use or need. We also fill our trash cans with garbage from packaging and products we no longer use. How many billions of people are on this planet? Can we continue this materialism forever? The answer is no, we cannot keep things going at this pace. We are depleting the planets finite resources and filling our oceans and landfills with garbage. Materialism will be the death of this planet and the humans who live on it. 

      While some people will point to this as a time of prosperity and luxury, realists see a tsunami of garbage and waste. Just spend an hour looking around in a dollar store and you can see that we have become a society of disposable and cheap products. We could go back to a time when TV's were repaired and not replaced, but the modern citizen does not want to deal with the hassle of repairs. Our modern society is based on replacement of items and holds no value for items that could be repaired. While some may argue that the trash problem caused by materialism is a solvable problem, I do not see anyone truly working on solving the problem. 

        The problem of unchecked consumerism and materialism is a societial problem we should all be concerned about. The wasting of planet resources for cheap products and packaging is an ecological crime. We are committing this crime one unnecessary purchase at a time. It is sad to see so many people totally unaware or unconcerned of how their consumerism is ruining this planet. materialism will be the downfall of humans on earth.









