Let's start by saying this, yes they do. Commercials and other created media runs the country. They really have to much influence if you ask me. People are soo easily swayed by some clever advert or commercial. Looks at weight loss for example. Take this pill, look like this. It's a simple example but it works. Look how many gimmicks people purchase in to.  The media also controls pretty much any emotional movement in the country. Look how part of stories are covered, to create just enough tension and then of course later on they reveal the rest, just as the damage is already done. On another scale, you can look at food and how it targets children. Colorful packages, prizes and games. This puts pressure on parents to buy for them. Happy meals, kids meals etc They all groom them from a young age into adulthood.  Look at back in the day with smoking ads?! Marlboro man, he's bad ass, he smokes.. Come on lol. Same goes for terrible health foods and choices. Has it curtailed a bit, sure but it still is way over the top and not in any way geared towards leading people to an educated choice. 


There is no way that 90% of the media and other venues aren't out to get people. It's profit vs well-being. They push celebs in a light that covers their true nature. Look at someone of the recent ones that were linked  to major crimes. It's all aabout misconception. Hey, buy this it creates fun!  A prime anology is this. But it's grandma's famous pie! We HAVE to eat it. No you don't, but once a label is put on it, it creates appeal.  Look at this politician , he is a family guy, he farms! He eats with his family! Like him, love him, yet in the background he beats his wife. Look at how random twitter posts piss people off. They don't even know if it's true to not, but it gets an initial reaction, right? It's all for shock. Instant reaction catering to impulse.

You get one misleading ad that points one way. Without someone really checking into it posts a response and a chain reaction takes hold. Same goes with buying and voting.  Ever wonder why ads are placed at checkout?  It's to catch people while they are standing still, making them ponder. It's there so that someone can fall into the teemtation. Take the last minute bash at before voting. Studies have shown the last thing you see sways a person. It is all a game in my opinion. If  ads and the media had half of a heart, they sure could sway people to be kind and make good choices, but they won't. That is not where the money is. Ads alike. It's all grooming from start to finish.

Another example of ads.. Free burger today! Anyone! Once they get their, they know folks will indulge in more. No business is going negative to treat folks well.  You won't see, free salad, if you don't eat a burger!  


you take all this and address one question you asked. They don't say much about what they promote. No they won't give details of heart disease or nutrition facts, or the links between issues and the product. They will place a silly advert that looks great and then has nothing to do with the product. Mobile games are a prime example. They have these less than tasteful ads of girls half nude. People get in the game and none of the ad matches the game at all. Next thing you know, you wanted a war game and now you are popping bubbles to collect coins. 

You see these celebs doing a certain diet, and all the sudden 500k people want to. Why? They are only human, but perception is a killer here. They are doing it, so I can be like them. Chances are they aren't doing any of it. Do you think Shaq uses the general auto insurance lol? Come on man! Because they are famous people want to wear and be like them. This is used a lot more on younger than older, but it works both ways.

Look at politicians again. Hey he donated to a charity, wow he must be good. Not really, he did it knowing he would have more gains than loses. Thank you for having a great topic and letting me vent, this was perfect haha 

