  Depending on who the person is, depends on how their happiness levels are achieved. If they are focused on personal goals to achieve their happiness or if they are focused on their personal goals or the happiness of others is souly upto that person.
  Personally, I achieve happiness in making sure that my family/friends are happy before I am. If they are happy than I am happy. My fiance and I strive to always make sure that our kids are happy before we are and I always strive to make sure that he is happy before I am. So, that means if someone in my family/friends is upset or unhappy, I will always make sure that I do my best to make them happy. If they are unhappy than so am I. My kids, my fiance and friends always come before me.
  In life, people do tend to make the decision to stop making others happy before themselves. People do get tired in always doing things for others. If there is one thing that I have learned in the 30 years that I have been alive, putting others before myself, gets tiresome. Stepping into my 30's, I made a promise to myself to always make sure I am happy and my family is happy and if that means that others get upset over that then they can walk out the door. My family is the only thing that matters and their happiness will always be my main goal.
  If I could give my younger self any advice it would be, to be selfish. Selfish on always choosing myself and always putting myself first. One thing that I know, from personal experience, is that everyone is always likely to make others happy around them before they are happy. If that is a personal goal of that individual, then that is something that that person will always do. once they realize that they matter and no one else, besides family, matters than their lives will become less stressful and more happy.
  To answer, Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others? I say they focus on the happiness of others until they realize they matter more!

