       Our modern world revolves around "stuff." Stuff we buy, stuff we hoard, stuff we brag about. We spend our days working to earn money, and then use our days off spending that money on material goods. Modern society seems to have lost the ability to judge people by their character, rather than by what they own. By looking at the effects on the environment, mental health, and charity concerns, it is obvious that modern society should be criticized for being materialistic.
       Climate change is one of the biggest issues of our time. The constant production of goods, as well as the disposal of goods, contributes in a negative way to climate change. Although some people dispute climate change altogether, there is no disputing that our landfills are overflowing with material goods. Climate change deniers don't feel that material goods affect the climate, but factories produce all kinds of negative by-products as a result of manufacturing. These by-products include smoke from factories and toxins released into waterways.
       Materialism also has an effect on mental health. People become depressed if they don't own enough "stuff", others can become depressed because they have too much. When society values your worth based on what you own, people's mental health is bound to suffer. There is even a new term for people who are exceedingly materialistic: hoarders. While some may say these people already had mental issues and that the competition to own more goods did not create those mental health problems, psychiatrists will differ. When society attaches so much value to what you own instead of what your character is, people who own less are bound to suffer from low self-esteem.
       Even charity organizations suffer when a society is materialistic. The more money people spend on material goods, the less there is to donate to charities. Some people may argue that if a person want to donate money, they will find a way regardless of what they spend on other goods. However, if a person ends up spending all of their disposable income on material goods, there is simply no money left to donate.
     With landfills overflowing and factories spewing out toxins, with people seeing mental health experts as a result of low self-esteem because they don't have as much as their neighbors, and with charities scraping by because so many people just have to have the newest model phone or car, it's easy to see that modern society should be criticized for being materialistic.
