In American society, it often seems like keeping up appearances is the most important value. Advertisements surround us everywhere we go. Online, video ads bookend and interrupt the content we choose to watch. Every website has popups begging for our subscriptions. In retail and grocery stores we can find kiosks trying to sell us on new products. And, of course, there is television. Commercials have been a staple of American culture for decades, to the point that another American staple, football, has almost become synonymous with them.

Advertisements play to our basic human instincts to get our attention, make us feel as if we won't be whole without this product or that. With the constant presence of advertisements in our daily lives, it becomes easy to co-opt the lifestyle and trends being sold. These messages reach large portions of the population, so in a sense, they become a shared dream among the nation. Of course, chasing these dreams leads to dissatisfaction. Ads create false needs and desires, and once a person is set up to rely on products to feel complete, they are not going to have the conviction and self-confidence to stand on their own. This is especially true when the advertisement of the product or service is misleading as to what it really is. The end user may continue trying to seek happiness with products, knowing that they've been duped, but feeling as if they are going to get it right eventually. They want a taste of the good life that they are seeing: the happy family, the sexual prowess, the social prestige.

We also uphold each other to these impossible standards. With the introduction of social media, people are able to showcase their lives for all to see. But many people aren't showing the truth. To keep up appearances, individuals pick and choose the content they post, to show themselves in the most flattering light. It satisfies that same basic human nature that advertisers exploit. People know there is a lack of authenticity, but it has become another frustrating staple of culture. Our lives were already full of illusions and impossible dreams. Of course it spills over into how we socialize and recreate.

It often feels like there isn't enough time or energy to really tend to our needs, so instead, we can prop ourselves up with the false promises that surround us everywhere we go. 
