Does cooperating or competion achieve more success for humans? In this essay I will give you my thoughts about this. 

I feel that competing for something will make a person stronger and give them more confidence. Winning is not always important. Just competing and showing up makes a person more able to achieve their goals. In some ways it gives a person to be challenged to make them work harder to achieve their goals. 

Cooperating with others helps people gain their influence and the success of this helps in achieving the goals one is looking to see in the future. 

I think that having competition and cooperation serve to be a way of having a long term realtionship with others. These two words are not the same in that competition is that of taking place between two or more people and cooperation is that of being able to get along with others.  I think once these two words come togehter there is a good chance that people will be more successful and most likely be happier. 

I think that people do achieve more success by  cooperation. If they are not cooperative in their jobs they will not achieve success. They will be considered defient and uncooperative.  

Keep in mind, not all people like to cooperate and have a mind of their own. They too could in someway be successful if they achieve their goals in other ways.

In summary competition and cooperation can be realated in many ways in our life. We need to cooperate in order to be happy and be competitive in order to achive the success we are looking for. Everyone should try to be cooperative to keep a happy world. Success is not always the happy mode for people, it could be the sad place because of the stress of that success. If we concentrate on what we wnat in our lives then I think we can gain that success and our lives will be on the road to being happier in the years to come.

Lets just try to try to be a little competitive and try to cooperate and maybe our world will be a better place to live in. Accomplish what you want and have  a great day and rest of your life.
