Capitalism is the key to our economy in the United States. The main two components of capitalism are the producers and consumers. Producers are the companies that make the products while consumers are customers that buy the products. Since consumers have a plethora of options to buy from, companies must use advertisements and colorful packaging to sway consumers to buy their product. A good product is still a necessity because consumers also rely on reviews from others before making a purchase. Using expensive tools like sponsorships and packaging styles is a great way for companies to convince consumers to buy while consumers maintain the power in their reviews.

Shaquille O'Neil is a star basketball player and a sponsor for The General insurance. When I think of insurance, I tend to think of Nationwide Geico, and AllState but Shaq's endorsement of The General has opened my eyes to the company. While The General is not my insurer, I did use their website to get a quote on car insurance. Without Shaq's endorsment, I doubt I would know anything about the company. Other companies use celebrities to boost their credibility which elevates the brand. Tide laundry detergent had Steve Austin and Ice T as voice actors in a commercial which signaled their support. These celebrities appeal to wrestling fans and people who like rap. By using these actors, Tide was able to appeal to a wider audience which potentially increased their consumers.

Packaging is also a way companies can seperate their products from the rest. On every isle at the store there are various color schemes and, sometimes, different shaped packaging. Orange juice bottles are typically orange but vary in shape depending on the company. Gallons of milk have similar shapes but different labels to distinguish them. Cereal packages tend to be extremely colorful and can come in boxes or bags. Having an appealing design can increases a company's chance of convincing the consumer to buy their product. The colorful boxes of cereal can indicate the flavor with brown boxes typically meaning chocolate and colorful boxes typically meaning fruity. A consumer who wants to try a new chocolate cereal will likely choose the most appealing brown box they come across. Whether or not they buy the same brand in the future is dependant on the quality of the product.

Marketing has its drawbacks; for example: the costs of advertising and consumer reviews. Creating a commercial is an expensive process even before hiring celebrities to be actors. A company gambles that their gross profit will exceed that of production costs, ad space, and employee wages. If their commercial does not appeal to the consumers, the company will lose money. Similarly, colorful packaging and odd shapes draw consumer's attention, but they are also costly. Even if consumers are attracted to the packaging, if a product is expensive, they will likely check other consumers' reviews before purchasing. Since consumers can easily share their experiences with the products online, attention grabbing marketing is not enough to convince consumers to buy. It is important for company's to produce quality products along with the packaging.

