I think people achieve more happiness by focusing on helping others be happy rather than their own goal of happiness. I strongly think helping others gives a great deal of satisfaction and through that satisfaction also comes self happiness. To me, that is a very satisfying feeling.

Using my own life as an example; I am a disaster case manager. I work directly with families affected by disasters such as fires, hurricanes and tornadoes. My days are long, hard and never have enough hours in them. I work with usually 30-35 families at a time and they all need help NOW. My phone never stops ringing and in between I am also expected to document what I have done for each family. At the end of a day, I usually take a few minutes to go over in my head what I have accomplised. Maybe I was able to get a struggling family a large check to help with day to day expenses, or a got a family qualifed to be accepted into a program that will provide them with an absolutely free home.  Doing things like that fills me with much satisfaction. Add to that seeing the joy on the faces of the people I just helped, makes me incredably happy. 

I also want to say that I think making sure that I do things for me that make me happy is also important. On my days off, I do try to focus on me a bit and making me happy. It might be as simple as ignoring the pile of laundry and sitting in the sun with a good book, but it refreshes me to go back and focus on my clients. While making sure of my own happiness is good, honestly that is nothing compared to the joy I feel when I have done something to make someone else happy. 

The people I work with are usually poor, usually did not have homeowers or rental insurance and have no idea of how to help themselves recover from the disaster. They usually are dejected, angry, and stunned by whatever has happened that suddenly made them homeless. They often lash out at me because I am there and they don't know where else to turn.  More than a few clients after they see I am truly working hard to help them, quietly apologize and thank me for what I do. Again, helping someone else be happy is an amazing feeling. As I am writing this essay, I am thinking about some of the families I have helped over the years and I still get that glow of happiness from what I have done.
