"Success" is inherently a potentially arbitrary term if it is not first defined in closed captions of specific structural confines for the personal or institutionalized meaning of the term. Due to this wide spectrum of variety in how "success" is viewed, I wil be speaking specifically about the biological imperative to thrive within a group dynamic, since that is the most relevant and consistently repeated need in every day life. With this understanding under our belt, let's begin.

Biologically speaking people do not achieve more success by competition ot by cooperation, but by a cooperative 'tit for tat' methodology. It would be easy  for one to  assume that human nature is more inclined to one central prerogative, seeing as it is a simpler solution than dealing with the natural intrinsic variables that make human behavioural development stable in it's complexities. In this short essay I would like to draw your attention to gambling as my example:

A common 1:1 association task study is the act of putting up one person against another person with a central goal to achieve a simplistic task like putting a ball in a hoop or putting jelly beans in a shared basket that will be divied out evenly between both parties sitting across each other. In my example the jelly bean act is going to be our central focus. Time and time again you will see this tit for tat ideology creeping into the actions of the individuals based on the initial understanding of a common goal and the competitive nature is not present against each other. Only once one party decides to cheat the other out of his jelly beans so that only party X and not party Y are having their funds split in half to be appreciated "evenly" amongst each other. Once this happens you will notice the other party repeatedly cheat too and not offer any jelly beans until party Y concedes to cooperate. After party Y has cooperated the tit for tat methodology behind human actions stirs the innate need once again to cooperate now that rules are being appropriately accepted by both members of the group.

It is fair to say that there are going to be biases in most analytics surrounding theory, but in this particular instance the methodology is being proposed inside the conceptualization of a biological sphere where the goal predetermined by the situation is of a financial mean. So though it is possible that somebody in say a parapsychological debate with a quasi comprehension for biology could argue through terms of religious roots where philosophical contemplations about conflated idealized tropes in western thinking about morals and ethics will dribble into their opinion on the matter, there opinion is not actually valid from a biological perspective. You see this behaviour throughout all species. One impressive example of this is shown where hermaphroditic fish will refuse to mate with a member of their pack who somehow is managing to fix the situation to their benefit to be the male suitor in breeding so that the other party has to bare all the physical malignancies of impeding childbirth. Carrying and giving birth are dangerous acts that put that member of the group at a severe disadvantage especially in awareness to them being a larger and slower target to other animals and even soome bacteria and fauna who will assume this pregnant fish as prey.

All in all, we can rest assured that the apparent complexities of this common prose is not in fact so complex after all. The answer is simply neither and both, which paradoxically helps us come full circle to the secondary awareness that complexities are inherently simplistic, while simplicities are often times if not 99% consistently the most complex elements within the order of a natural world. 

In short, biologically speaking the 'tit for tat' compound of how the natural brain before politically driven bias seeps in to illustrate potential divets and cracks in theological discussions and philosophical disputes is an inane issue that is completely and utterly unneccesary in this particular discussion. It is neither cooperation nor is it competition. It is concurrently and abjectively a judicial depiction of how behavioural evolution has decided that neither is more important than the other, because both have a place and a role in achieving success with interpersonal dynamics through first acknowledging patterns at play, and then expressing a punishment and reward system with our responses to train the opposite party to when he is behaving in an inapropriate matter. It follow from this that since every avenue you go through in life be it altruistic affairs, familial affairs, partnerships, work environments, or even just general survival, we are nothing short of incompetant at "success" without this innate function of ensuring reciprocracy through the 'tit for tat' methodology I have illustrated for you today.
