Every day, we encounter commercials on TV, advertisements online, glamorous photos on Instagram, and many, many other images that attempt to persuade us that some person, place, or thing is the best thing since sliced bread. These are things we need in our lives, as they are just that great. But are these images always accurate? And do we sometimes give too much weight to these images and impressions without really considering what lies beneath them?

Just about everyone has experienced the pain of buying a product based on clever advertising only to realize that the product really is not all it was cracked up to be. Similarly, many of us have been disillusioned by celebrities, politicians, and other public figures when we realize they are all just as human as the rest of us. It is easy to be persuaded by the polished images that are constantly thrown our way by the media, companies, etc., but we must always bear in mind that these images are in fact more than just pretty pictures: they are attempts to change the way we think.

Now, at first, that might sound a bit extreme to some, as though these entities are trying to brainwash people, but consider a commercial. What is the purpose of a commercial? To convince consumers that a product or service is good--often superior to its competitors--and that it is something we all need in our lives. You may have never heard of the thing being advertised before, and yet sometimes one finds themselves rushing onto Amazon to buy said product before the commercial has even finished. Regardless of whether the advertised product is indeed good and worth purchasing, the images and impressions presented through commercials clearly can have an impact on how people think, and ultimately how they behave.

As another example, consider today's social media landscape. Be it Instagram or Tik Tok, Facebook or YouTube, one can find thousands of influencers and celebrities showing off their daily lives. These posts typically consist of the perfect selfie, picturesque vacation photos, and other similar content that highlights all of the exciting and luxurious aspects of their lives while quietly hiding away the mundane, the negative, and the other unsightly areas. Of course, by now we all know that no one truly leads a perfect life, no matter what their social media feed may show. And yet many of us get lost in these perfectly curated feeds and forget the reality that exists behind them, which in many cases turns into depression, anxiety, and other mental health disorders that then seep into other areas of our lives well beyond the realm of the internet. Despite us knowing what really is, we ultimately are only able to focus on what we see.

In a similar vein, many of us are interested in various entertainers, such as actors and singers. These entertainers stand before us on grand stages and big silver screens, always putting their best foot forward while bursting with charisma and charm. They are beautiful and awe-inspiring when they appear before our eyes. But, just like those we see on social media, entertainers are also humans at the end of the day, with human problems, human worries, and human complaints. Rarely do we see these negative sides of them, however, unlike our close acquaintances and family members. Rarely do we see them act like everyday human beings, as that is hardly the type of image or impression a global movie star would want to give off. Otherwise, what would make them special?

Although the old adage "seeing is believing" often rings true, in this day and age, sometimes we must remember that seeing is not everything. That is, seeing does not equate to reality, validity, or the truth in all cases. In fact, what we see is so frequently manipulated these days, through Photoshop and filters, fancy camerawork, and so on, that perhaps seeing is believing is not all that true in 2022. Still, one should not have to always view the images they encounter through a critical and analytical lens. Just know that everything is not always as it seems, so when one does realize that reality and the reality perceived through images are not in alignment, it is okay to take a step back and reevaluate. At the end of the day, virtually all of us will fall prey to advertisements and social media--likely on a number of occasions--but that does not necessarily mean it is a shortcoming of our own. Rather, someone else was able to do a really good job of persuading (changing our thinking) through the images and impressions they crafted.
