Roots of Materialism

Over the history of the United States of America, materialism has become one of the fundamental characteristics of its society and other societies around the world. The United States of America's citizens are conditioned into believing they are satisfied when acquiring goods using their government's currency that is issued to them, and they have been conditioned this way since the Industrial Revolution. Corporations that exist today in America, and around the world, expand rapidly and spread greed and corruption. My proposal is that it is not society or its citzens to blame, but the greed and lust for expansion that corporations and the wealthy have in our societies.

Citizens are not to blame. All of us are either born here or travel to the United States seeking freedom, another of the fundamental characteristics of American society, and we do get this freedom, but naturally we become accustomed to materialism as we grow up or live here in the States longer. We learn that it is the societal normal to make purchases in order to own more than our neighbor. This is the basis of life at this point in our world; striving to own more than our neighbor. It will be extremely difficult to make a change to this societal layout, because the corporations and figures who caused this normal are already too powerful and bloated. Only about ten or so companies own a majority of the products we buy, and similarly a sum of companies make up a majority of the worth in markets like the Stock Market. It would take vast and extreme law reform over the course of many years to lessen the influence of size of these companies.

However, this is not the main focus of our goverment today, as we do have many other serious issues facing our Earth and safety. I never stated that materialism is a bad thing, I simply stated who should be criticized if we were to adjust it. It should not be our modern society as a unit being criticized, it should be the individuals and corporations who are responsible for making our society this way. Whether it should be reformed or not, I do not have the expertise to label materialism as a negative or positive for our society, but I do know exactly who is at fault for it.

Modern society and its citizens should not be criticized for materialism, only those who started it (Ancient Greece or other ancient civilizations), activley help develop it (early business tycoons), and keep it alive (conglomerate companies and the wealthy). Because of our history, materialism is now rudimentary in human behavior, and we have completley changed our species natural behavior. We must realize together that modern society should not be criticized, rather the root of the issue.

Thank you for this writing opportunity! 
