Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people? The idea of subjective, or concensus reality is a concept commonly put forth that reality is defined by the perception of the masses, and can thus be manipulated by images portrayed by the media and entertainment industries. Surely it can be agreed that advertising, that which permeates all things we see and hear on television, see in print, and listen to on the radio can deeply effect our concious mind and alter our perception of what is real and cosidered valuable. The intrinsic value of such things is based almost entirely on our own perception which, as stated previously, can be highly influenced by outside forces.

Take, for example, a clothing line specializing in luxury styles. The material and construction may well be inferior to other, less expensive brands of clothing, but the manufacturer can use advertising, careful ad placement, and selected celebrity endorsements (wether they be public or confidential) to influence the perception of the brand, so that people are willing to spend more money to acquire said garments. In this way, the manufacturer has altered our perception of reality, convincing us that in order to be accepted, or be more like our favorite celebrities we must purchase their product. 

The same can be used in all ideas, wether they be material or moral. If it is repeated through media often enough, enough people will accept it as truth, and thus for many it does become their own personal truth. Once enough people believe a certain idea, they can become a deciding force within their social group, convincing others and thus altering the perception of reality for potentialy thousands of other people. In this way, objectively false ideas can become the truth to many.

False ideas can spread fruther into society, creating the necessary circumstance for corruption to spread into every facet of our daily lives. When lies are not just accepted as fact but become inherent truth, people will often become aggitated and even violent in confrontation with reality. They will take extreme measures in an attempt to alter reality to suit their misguided perception of what reality is, or perhaps what reality should be. In losing sense of objective reality they lose their sense of self, sense of community, and sense of moral character.

When objectively false ideas or information spread as truth throughout society, the acutal, objective truth can be lashed out against with enough vigor so as to create social decay. Within social decay, justice will always become a casualty, and injustice will become just as much a truth as corruption and lies. In this way some with the power to influence use images and impressions to destroy others in order to empower and enrich themselves. This is why images and impressions can have entirely too much of an effect on people.                                                                                    
