     It's always been a known fact that Hollywood stars, and those we see in the media are otherworldly gorgeous. Celebrities have always been the ideal image and standard of beauty, regardless of their talents, i.e. their acting ability, their creativity, and personality. Back before the internet became a thing, the majority of people looked to magazines and television to see these celebrities. Today, regular people start to see the truth behind these celebrities, because it is plastered all over the internet. 
     Let's take the Kardiashian's for example. A lot of Instagram users worship the members of this family. Some people completely ignore the fact that they have had a lot of cosmetic work done to enhance and change their appearance. Now, the people look to them, and want to achieve this look. This has become the standard of today's beauty. The full lips, long straight hair, small nose, sultry eyes, enhanced breasts and butt, and a thin waist. They did not work for their bodies. They were not blessed with these facial features naturally. All was done through cosmetic surgery. 
   Those who are not particularly wealthy or known on the internet, have to use makeup and other techniques to achieve this specific look. And then you see people uploading videos on YouTube teaching others how to do these techniques. When you go on social media platforms, you'll see a ton of women who look very similar. There is no other talent other than makeup for these "models." 
     There is a community of people on the internet who oppose false beauty. They are against the use of filters and are against cosmetic surgeries. They advocate natural beauty. And using makeup lightly, only to enhance your natural features. Unfortunately, these types of groups don't do so well on Instagram. People tend to ignore them. 
     It can be dangerous to be a part of the social media world, especially as a young person, who are so impressionable. They look to those like the Kardashians and wish they could look like that. They'll harm themselves, and turn to destructive behavior because of low self-esteem. Young people want to be heard, and acknowledged, not for their abilities but for their looks. And celebrities are responsible for creating this chaos. 
   This deception does not only lie in Hollywood. It also comes in the form of food, medicine, clothing, and stores. For example, when you are at a grocery store and see that there are two different types of Wheat Thins; one is low-fat, the other is regular. If you look at the nutrition facts on the back, it'll show the serving size and the fat content. The serving size will usually look different on these two boxes. The low-fat will have a lower serving size, indicating that it is indeed low-fat. 
     If you were at a clothing store. They have outfits on thinner, taller mannequins, which looks enticing. When you go and try on a shirt, the mirror you are looking at is warped to make you look thinner, therefore the shirt looks great on you. This is also true for online shopping. The models they use to advertise clothes look very attractive, and the clothes look perfect on their bodies. A shopper will look at that and think, "If I buy this, it will make me look like that." After they try it on at home, it is completely opposite of what they imagined. 
    Beauty brands are also another business type that tricks people into buying their products. They will source their ingredients from really cheap areas, and then charge consumers five times as much for it. And the one thing that gets people to buy it, are the celebrities who make it. People want to look like Kylie Jenner, so they buy her products. It's not really about supporting your favorite celebrites. These celebrities do not need support, or the money. They just need the attention and fame. And people fall for whatever's trendy at the moment. 
     A successful business knows how to play the game. They know the tips and tricks of how to get more people to consume their stuff. This is not illegal in the United States. You can sell whatever you want, it's the consumer's responsibility to do the research first. In hindsight, people are allowed to buy what they want with their money. This is what capitalism is about. It's your choice at the end of the day, but it's best to educate yourself and stay smart, so you're not wasting your money. 
