   Success is acheived being competative in life. Competition is defined as a rivarly between mulitple parties. For example, if someone wants a new job they have to compete with other applicants. They will more likely be chosen if they have more schooling than the other person. Also, they might have more volunteer time than the other person. Additionally, they might be more personable than the other applicants. All of these factors matter when people are in competition with eachother. Competition is imparative in becoming successful. Overall, being competitve rather than cooperative will acheive you more success in life.

   Being competitive is essential to becoming successful. Everyone needs to try to always be better than the next person to make sure they obtain the things they want. People that are millionaires did not become wealthy without being competitive. Additionally, competition can lead to creativity. People will find more ways to stand out in the crowd so this intiates people to learn more skills. This makes people more successful because now they have more qualifications which leads to more job oppurtunities which leads to more success. Also, people willl learn valuable skills through competition. They will learn to try things they never thought they could accomplish before. This makes people more happy because they realize the only thing stopping them is themselves. This leads to success because happiness is a goal everyone wishes to recieve. Competition is a valuable asset that translates into success.

   Cooperation is a way to be successful. For example, if you stay later than usual for your job to complete your work because your boss told you to you may recieve a raise or rank up in your job. Being cooperative is key to becoming successful. 

    In conclusion, people acheive more success through competition rather than cooperation. This is because people who just cooperate in life usually get pushed around and they do not level up. While people who are competitive try as hard as they can to display that they are better than the other applicants and they are always giving there all. Addtionally, people who are competitive access their creative side and learn more skills than never knew were possible. Even though being cooperative has its perks; competition displays that is causes way more success than cooperation. 
