   Reality is oftentimes viewed through a ficticious lense, one created by the powers that be. Wealthy business magnates, advertising corporations, even the very governments we swear our allegiance to. These images they've painted in or minds are not always so closely alligned with objective reality.

   Images in the media surely effect the average person greatly. From the way we buy, work, find our partners even voting for elected officials. Romance media for example, young men and women are tempted by facimiles; the stars they see on the big screen. Not only beautiful in form but perfect and catered in function. The average man or woman is frankly put: banal and normal. To expect these incredible highs out of life is only setting the youth up for complete disaster. The star on the big screen is the human equivalent of the cardboard hamburger on the fast food billboard; utterly fictious and in reality disgusting.

   Some may argue against this position by saying "no no, surely no person of average intellect would fall victim to these ploys!". Perhaps there's some truth to that. One could argue people see far more often the day-to-day banality of every day life, their peers and family, more than they do faulty imagery in the likeness of reality. One could even look upon their own past for comparison. Was your highschool sweetheard in perfect likeness to the image painted in your mind by romantic literature? But surely those memories and experiences are still cherished.

   In regards to the packaging of products one could posit "nay, simple bright colors pale in comparison (in terms of import) to the product information". The list of ingredients, the price listed on the shelf could very well instead be the deciding factors. No man spends his hard earned wages on colored plastic alone.

   In conclusion I do believe images and faulty impressions of reality have a great effect on the majority of the population. The cars we buy, the way we see our peers, lovers, political enemies. It's all been carefully catered and fed to us by a powerful elite; a cabal of people acting only in their self interest, molding the fragile minds of the "unwashed masses". The smiles on the faces of the paid actor wearing our own brand of jeans, the politician with his finely pressed suit, colorful signage and catchy slogans. These things have a great effect. Truly despicable indeed.
