We've often heard the saying "there is more happiness in giving then in receiving."  But is that really a true statement?  Can living a more hedonistic life bring us more or less pleasure than a life that's freely generous?

I would posit that in all things, there needs to be balance.  And that taking a 100% stance on either side of the spectrum will not bring about a lasting sense of happiness or fulfillment.

A life that fully revolves around one's own desire and diversions can be for a time fulfilling, it is the life that is lived by infants and children after all.  Before they become aware of sharing, and empathy, and how to connect to others.  However it is a solitary life for an adult who should have developed beyond those selfish toddler tendencies.  If you always put yourself first, no relations or connections can be truly formed, because part of a true connection, something that establishes trust, and loyalty, is only formed when the other people feel they are important to you.  Case in point, even a company, if they mistreat their workers, through paying them a lower wage, or not treating them humanely, inspires no trust, or commitment from the workers, and they are more likely to leave.  Whereas there are people who will stay with a company that pays less, simply because they feel valued by the lengths the company show appreciation for them.  

A life that focuses on the happiness of others, it more contingent on the motivations of the person who is giving.  Some people can strike an unhealthy balance, feeling that others will not like them if they are not in some way "buying" their interest and attention, they may often put themselves in positions of being taken advantage of.  And may feel slighted or taken adavantage of for being nice.  Others may desire the praise and recognition that may come from giving, such as a donation at a very prominent event, or promoting all their efforts on social media, with an eye to receive praise and extra likes.  Others may truly desire to see people happy for their own sake, however personal time, energy and resources are limited, it can be very easy to burn out trying to see to the needs of everyone around them.  This could cause them to feel like they are failing.   

So boundaries are quite necessary to reap the full reward of the old addage that there is "more happiness in giving then in receiving".  One must have the right motivations for doing so, that they are sincere, that the happiness is not contingent on getting other people's approval, but simply for the reason that it's what you wanted to do.  Also being careful not to harm yourself, or extend yourself beyond your means contintually.  Which is perhaps the more difficult thing to do, as many people do need things, from friendship, comfort, a hearing ear, to more tangible things, like help moving, assistance while ill, or monetary resources.  There's more needs then any one person could possibly fulfill.

However when giving to those we love, know, or even complete strangers, when done correctly, the rewards are immeasurable.  When you have it in your power to do something that helps another person, that alleviates some want, suffering, or hardship, we may realize internally that life is difficult for many, even ourselves, and we may reflect on times that we too, needed help from someone, and when they were there for us, we felt less alone, we felt less scared.   Whereas with a more hedonistic lifestyle, that feeling of goodwill, that feeling of being connected and less alone, or scared, brought about by someone helping us, would be non-existent. 

I think this also ties on with the notion to "pay it forward" that if you've been helped by someone, the best way to show gratitude, is by being able to provide that same feeling and same resource for someone else that you were provided.  Which cannot be said of a more hedonistic lifestyle, you have not been helped, you have not helped, you have not truly connected in a deep and meaningful way with another human, so therefore, I would posit missing an essential part of the experience that defines us as human and as mature adults that have profited by experience and knowledge. 
