Since the beginning of time, mankind has worked relentlessly towards the pursuit of personal happiness.  Unfortunately, many people become frustrated with this task because they are going about it the wrong way.  The only way to find true happiness is to focus on the happiness of others and benefiting humanity.  This works by putting your individual problems in perspective, by boosting your feel good hormones, and by strengthening your personal community.  

You might be having the worst day ever.  Your car has broken down, your boss is on your case, and your dealing with rainy weather.  It's the pits.  However, if you take the time to listen to another person's woes and put yourself in your shoes, it might help you gain perspective about your own issues.  While it's true that you're having a bad day, it's all subjective, really.  Listening to others will help you gain empathy and understanding.  You might quickly realize that your problems aren't such a big deal in the grand scheme of things.  You can be grateful to own a car.  You can be grateful that your boss gave you feedback that might help you excel at your job and improve your career.  You can feel grateful that you have a job and that you have this opportunity to improve.  You might learn to appreciate the rain, since some people suffer from the lack of rain, which leads to forest fires.

As a matter of fact, listening to others and putting your problems in perspective can strenthen your gratitude for the good things you have in life.  It can help you gain appreciation for all the little things you took for granted.  Often, it helps to journal about these things, so you don't forget them.  As you go about your day, take note of the goodness you see and the blessings you have.  You just might be surprised at the abundance you already have in your life.  

Did you know that doing good deeds for others will boost your serintonin and dopamine levels?  Those are feel good hormones that your brain and body craves.  Your not just benefitting the person that you're helping, but you'll be helping yourself.  The next time that you feel sad, try doing a small act of kindness for someone else and see if it doesn't help.  You don't have to spend a lot of money either or give oddles of time.  A simple kindhearted text message to someone you care about can do the trick.  So could writing a card to someone who is isolated at this time.  Helping a child who needs tutoring will also help, as could simply wheeling your neighbors garbage can back to their house after it has been picked up.  Try to a random act of kindess per day and take note of how you feel afterward.  Before you go to bed at night, plan out the random act of kindness you'll do.  Take the time to really savor what will happen.  Let yourself look forward to it.  Allowing yourself to savor good experiences, helps build the happy capacitors in your brain. 

Likewise, focusing on the needs and happiness of others and humanity will help strengthen your community and your social clout.  A strong community is healthy.  It's a community that can look after the weak, the small, the elderly, the young, the poor, and everyone in a good position too.  It's one that has a roubust safety net.  People are social animals, and building a strong community supports that need.  

Although it's understandable that some people believe that focusing on yourself is the best way to go about gaining happiness, they'll eventually find that it's an impossible task that invites comparision to others on social media and an endless need for materialstic pursuits.  It's a constant game of one upsmanship with friends and family, which deteriorates relationships.  Additionally, while these people might feel happier for a short period, but it won't help in the long run.  It creates an atmosphere of always needing more.  Needing more material goods, needing more social media likes and comments, needing more achievements, needing more of everything.  It is a relentless search for the next big thing that will fill that hollow void inside the person. 

The good news is that you can be happy without heading off on that endless pursuit that leads to emptiness.  The only way to gain true happiness is to focus less on the self and to put your attention on the people around you and your overall community and humanity.  That's how you will gain true happiness.  That's how you'll find peace that is lasting.  


















