Competition in the work place sparks an almost unknown drive to complete a task or assignment, cooperation makes completing the task at hand easier without stressing about doing it worse or better than someone else within your own team or circle of employees. Cooperation creates a product that is thought through and through for all possibilities of failure or improvement soley because there are more minds creating said product. However, rivalries and competition create products that are going to compete with each other, so depending on the workplace environment, competitiveness might be a more lucrative option. Cooperation is going to create something that is long lasting, brings long lasting success, and is ready and can take improvment ideas from multiple sources of people or even whole companies.

A very effective and efficient way of creating a product is to allow many different ideas to coexist and come into the final product through cooperation. Competition will create many different product ideas that are not necessarily going to be better but you will have more of them to choose from because it will most likely be one or a small amount of people working on that one product. Lets say you have two people who are trying to compete in making a product. This product will have two different ideas that are only trying to beat out each other. This creates a small or more dense product than if you use the minds of both people to create one product and allow for revision later in the future using both of these peoples ideas and skills. 

I have worked personally with both of these styes of work, that being competition and cooperation. Lets start with the competition side of the argument. When I was in highschool I worked as a lifeguard with the intention of becoming a headguard or manager. This was basically a competiton of who was the best life guard and who could take responsibility more than the other guards. This brought a lot of tension between guards because a lot of the staff wanted better pay for less work, because as a manager you would kind of just sit down all day and answer guests questions if they had any. Now lets discuss the cooperation side of the argument. I worked as a software engineer and we used a team environment to complete sprints (2 weeks) of work as efficiently and as well done as possible within the given time frame. The team environment allowed for help and questions which made our lives a lot easier when dealing with parts of a project that we were not familar with. Everyone had the same or around the same pay so no one was trying to do more work than others to obtain a raise. While raises are possible, where I worked it was more of a staff wide raise rather than an employee of the month type of raise. I enjoyed the cooperation environment more because it allowed me to work with my collegues in creating a product together rather than spliting up and trying to impress someone higher up for a raise or a different position in the company. 

You might say that competion can create a better product when people are competing with each other for their idea to be used. This is true, but that one idea or person can only come up with so many ways to create a further improvement of that same idea or concept. Look at companies like Apple, Google, and Facebook. They all have a cooperation model that creates a bunch of ideas for a product and then the process is created for actually making that product go into production. Sure the companies compete with themselves for products that are going to be used. But the internals of the company use a cooperation model of work, which allows for more ideas and more improvements in the future which allows for more success. 

Both models can be seen as effective and can work in many different ways, this however is just my argument for why one of them works better in most situations. Competions creates less ideas and more products, while cooperation can create the same amount of products with more ideas and more improvements because there are more ideas being shared around the room. Therefore, cooperation creates more succes because these products that are being created can last a longer time while also having more people feed in ideas that can make sure the success of a product is acheived by all means necessary.
