People experience more success through cooperation and not competiton. For example, in school environments, it is important for students to interact with educational professionals to achieve success. Students are not genetically programmed to achieve success. Thus, their ability to learn key educational concepts is solely based upon their cooperating and seeking understanding though their teacher. As a result, they become equipped to achieve success. 

Similarly, in work environments, competition can lead to failed business practices and unhappy employees. As a result, key goals of companies or corporations may fail because of a spirit of competition. When employees set aside personal differences and work together as a team, then success is achieved. Employees learn from one another and are able to achieve their personal goals. For example, when I was in college, I wanted to obtain another position. I learned from my colleagues how to do their job. If my colleagues were competitive, this could have led to a poor outcome for our work environment since they were temporary workers. As temporary workers, they needed to hand the baton to workers who would later assist with the work. Therefore, a cooperative frame of mind by my colleagues led to my successful training and contribution to my work environment. 

On the other hand, some may argue that competition leads to personal growth and more money. Although some people grow from being competitive, this could also lead to early burnout. People who gain more money by being competitive can feel unhappiness in the work environment. In comparison, those who attend school and who become accustomed to being competitive in high school, could experience a rude awakening when they attend college and there are students who are equally competitive academically. This could lead to students feeling burnout in college and experiencing mental health issues, because of the inability to achieve success through competition. 

Overall, it is clear that cooperation is profoundly better than competition. People seem to achieve better outcomes, are happier, and companies can continue to thrive when people cooperate with one another. Students can achieve educational success and workers can continue to help businesses grow. Although competition can lead to personal growth and financial gains, cooperation can lead to better long term outcomes that help people to thrive mentally, emotionally, and lead to true success. 
