Images and impessions have too much of an effect on people, causing them to percieve messages and ideologies that often are not true.  From TV comercials and product labels, these forms of mixed messagings are everywhere, and are used to portray people, political ideals, and products in different manors than they actually exist, showing how the way that these people and items appear is often times more important than their actual abilities to help or solve problems.

One recent example that comes to mind has to do with politics, and the President of the United States, Joe Biden.  President Biden is often asked questions about his stance on key issues, and, when he responds, he often times tries to twist the question or respond with his achievements, rather than answer a concerning question that is unfavorable to him.  While this is nothing new in the realms of politics, and both Democrat and Republican candidates alike have been doing this for years, it shows how even one of the most important and influential people in democracy, freedom, and American life can spin a narrative and create a false impression about their ideals.  Additionally, political ads, for Republicans and Democrats alike, portray their candidates as being superior and democratic, while, in reality, the majority of politicians, like everyone else, have a backstory, that is often times unfavorable and goes against the same types of traits that they try to align themselves with.  Despite this, though, people still vote on the principle that a Republican or a Democratic candidate has better ideals, when, in reality, they are likely both equally as bad people, just with unique and different ideas.

In addition to personalities in politics, products and product placement often plays a role in the psychology of how we misinterperet and percieve items.  For example, some people who want to eat healthy breakfast foods, might go shopping in the cereal aisle of a grocery store.  Although certain cereals are loaded with sugar and really are not all that healthy, the boxes are often colorful and display nutritional information or slogans, such as the product being heart healthy or high in fiber.  The end result, though, is a product that is high in sugar, with very little nutritional value, that does not promote a well balanced diet and often leaves consumers dissatisfied. 

Recently, when in a supermarket, I was looking to buy some cookies as I had a craving for something sweet.  When going down the cookie aisle, I fell victim to false imagery, as I saw a box of cookies, which had an adorable animated character on them along with a bright and atractive color scheme, so I immediately bought them.  However, when I got home, the cookies tasted nothing like what I thought they would, and felt rather cheap and of very low quality.  Unfortunately, I had a misinformed impression, solely based on the packaging, which led me to believing that brand of cookies would be fulfilling and superior, when, in reality, they were below average at best.  Had I have not had some amount of bias, and had chosen another brand of cookies in a dull box, perhaps on a lower shelf that was not in my direct eye sight, I possibly could have been more fulfilled, or at least saved a little bit of money for a similar product.

All of these examples clearly show how imagery and impressions play a role on how people percieve other people and products.  Sadly, these forms of imagery often times do have too much of an effect on people, as they often blind people from the true facts - whether that's seeing that a poltiical candidate really is not the wholesome person they thought they were, or if it means realizing that a colorful cereal box with a cute animated character on it and a few healthy slogans is really high in sugar and not healthy or well-balanced at all.  

Although it is my personal belief that images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people, I also should not undermine the importance of effective marketing and communication.  For example, in regards to the cereal box, it is important for the cereal company to create a product that looks visually attractive, as, otherwise, they likely would not sell it and would not make any money.  While I do agree that some types of imagery and impressions are important, I also believe it is important to restrict false advertising and claims, like stating a cereal or other type of food is healthy, when, in reality, it is only high in one nutritional value, but is not a great source of nutrients for your diet.  

Clearly, images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.  However, rather than posing that question, I counter, asking you: how should we change the ways that imagery and impressions effect people's decisions and thoughts, while still promoting fairness and the ability for people and companies to market themselves and products?  One way that I have learned to deal with this is to spend more time looking at and researching products, as well as comparing similar products, allowing me to hopefully avoid the same mistake that I made with the cookies in the future.  However, when it comes to our perceptions of politicans or other political figures, it is often hard to make a fair assessment of their personalities, since there is alot of misinformation and gossip surrounding their identities and attitudes towards specific situations.  Still, it is my belief that we must try our best to combat the ways images and impressions have an effect on us, to remove bias, and judge people, products, and places solely on facts, not imagery. 
