In my opinion, one will produce their best work with a bit of competition coupled with cooperation; this duo makes you more skilled. 

In a typical day, you are typically either aware of tasks that need to be completed either within your home or within your work and if you do not do it someone else can or will do it. Example: the dishes. If you do not unload and load the dishwasher someone else probably will and for me, I would feel bad as this is a task I am responsible for whereas someone else is responsible for the lawns. The lawns are a bit hard for me as it quite demanding work. 

As an example, at work; I collaborate with my collegue as we both know how to do the majority of the tasks in our department. This is for coverage purposes and when one is out of the office or assigned a special task either one of us can perform the tasks within our department. The cross training also helps if someone needs a day off. If you want to look like you're pulling your weight you do the work and you do it well.  Or someone else can and will do it this will make you  look like a slacker and or incompentent. 

The above is the competition side of things. 

Using the same example at work above, whereas, I typically handle and am the lead on x,y and z tasks. In contrast, my collegue is responsible and takes the lead on a,b, and c tasks. 
We don't step on each others toes and you can find us asking multiple times a day if say the "a" tasks are really heavy that day, "do you need any help"?

This would be the cooperation side of things. 

I do believe one will achieve more and will benefit more, both professionally and personally,  if there is more kindness and helpfulness in the front of your mind. 

Manners are simply underrated. Please, thank you, how are you, good morning, how can I help, happy to help, do you need anything, your welcome; these words and one's actions are vital to any team. 

Its a good thing to expect more of yourself. It's a good thing to help others if you can as it shows your willingness to the whole ( the organization, the department, the team) rather than being "selfish" and only thinking of yourself. The big picture! 

If there's a competition and say there is a bonus involved and you want that bonus you tend to work hard to obtain it. You push yourself -- its the best competition as you are competing with yourself and your own abilities. Competition with others can be less welcoming as it can be too overwhelming. 


