Do Images and impressions have too much of an effect on people? A lot of us know that answer already. You can be sitting in your recliner watching a movie after working hard that day. All of sudden a commercial will come on portraying a new burger that just came out at your local burger joint.  The way they show the burger and how enticing it looks makes you hungry and craving that burger.  But in reality, when you go to that burger joint, you are given a burger that looks nothing like the advertisment at all.  The burger joint just made a profit based off how that burger looked in the advertisement. And you had a burger barely the size that was advertised.

A lot of companies will promote their products by sprucing up packaging, the product itself or adding a promotion that will entice consumers to want to try their product. This marketing strategy is a remarkable way of luring customers in to buy and try their product.  During October, many companies will change their products to pink in awareness for breast cancer but are they really helping the awareness of breast cancer or are they just after the profits of selling their products?  Either way, a lot of consumers will buy the box that is pink thinking that they are supporting breast cancer awareness. Its the same for a box of Kraft macaroni cheese. You can buy the regular box or the off brand of mac anc cheese. But you glance at the box and see that they have the new Super Mario image on it and decide to try that based on the image. Most kids like the original mac and cheese and not the character ones in the first place.  But because of the image, you felt persuaded to buy the box in hopes that it would please y0ur kids.

Advertisments are sometimes tricky when it comes to products that they want consumers to try. New products are usually the most tried products due to advertisements.  When consumers who have tried products based on advertisment and don't like the product, the advertisment does not work for them in the future. This is where the image will change and advertise that the product is better than before, as far as size, new ingredients or just a new colorful package.  Consumers will likely to try one more time on the product and most find the product to be the same as before.

In conclusion, companies that stick to normal ways of attracting consumers to try their product are usually the ones that have been around a long time and their profits have been steady versus those that trick consumers by image impressions and receive bad reviews. Maybe they should stop and think back on how advertisements worked in the older days. Before they started add image impressions, you would buy the product based on how they actually looked. Many consumers do not like the extra image and often accuse the company for false advertisement. This can be a problem for new companies that are trying to get their product out, fail and then go bankrupt.  If you want to sell a product, don't go too extreme on changing any images because in reality, we want what is actually real and feels real.                               
