Seeing is not always believing. Many things in our daily life are deceptively attractive, and others may look plain but be wonderous. The advent of social media means we are faced with watching people living seemingly glamorous lives with no stress, and often that leads to jealousy. Other times we find ourselves looking at videos of beautiful cakes, only to find out that they weren't even real in the first place. Photo editing software has become so prevalent that many celebrities and influencers wouldn't even be recognizable if you ran into them on the street. People are being influenced by false realities, without ever giving a thought to what happens behind the scenes.

Social media is a blessing and a curse. It helps people stay connected with friends, but it also shoves glamorized lifestyles and products that may not be the best quality in your face as a "must-have." Many people, especially teens and young adults, are seeing people traveling around the world on sponsorships or getting once in a lifetime experiences and it seems like a great life to lead. However in reality, these people could be struggling just as badly as the rest of us. If not more, due to the stress of maintaining these false appearances. Along with this, people see highly reviewed products that were essentially false advertisement, and they don't find out until after they've wasted their money. An example of this is the "Pink Sauce" that weent viral on TikTok recently. A large number of people spent money for the sauce, got it delivered, and ended up with food poisoning due to poor quality and health practices of the maker. But because it was so popular, everyone that saw it just had to have it to avoid missing out on the trend.

Another example of common deceptive imagery is in food advertising. For example, cake decorating images and videos. While many cakes we see on social media are likely also delicious, there are others that are simply decorated foam because it holds up for photographing better. Many people have also experienced watching an advertisement for a fast food restaurant that promises a beautiful burger with fresh toppings, only to run out and buy it to get a grease soaked bun with soggy lettuce. Marketing is meant to appeal to visual senses, and no one would go buy a burger that looks like it was sat on even if in reality that's what you receive in return for your money. Many times picture perfect food won't even taste very good, and people end up being let down by their purchase.

Even more common still, is the use of photoshop in advertising of clothing, as well as everyday people on social media. This practice has been proven to increase body image issues in young adults and children, because being faced with the idea that people can look perfect is a daily event at this point. Facetune is an app that many people use to "improve" their appearance in photos so that they can also look perfect. However, this is just furthering the cycle of inaccurate representations of what people look like, and what people are seeing when they go online. Damaging people's mental health for a desire for perfection is a more extreme example of how images can affect anyone. There is also the problem of people leaving rude comments when people don't look how others want them to. Some people even think that it is acceptable to insult people's appearances online because they could have taken the time to put effort into photoshop.

In conclusion images can make people jealous over a seemingly perfecct life, influence people to buy products that may be subpar, and alter their own images to match the standards of others. Jealousy of others lives is normal, but having so many people posting photos of how happy they are when in reality they are struggling is problematic. It's well known that restaurants don't advertise their food accurately, but it doesn't prevent disappointment when what you get looks nothing like the photo and tastes average at best. Lastly, photoshopped images of people's bodies and faces is leading to more people thinking they need to change themselves to fit into this picture perfect world we seem to live in. Even if just subconsciously, the images we se every day have an effect on our perception of the world, what we buy, and who we want to become.
'
