Understanding that materialism is not just a concept, but a way of life, is quite a monumental lens with which to percieve societal interaction. Culture often correlates with social norms, and in today's world of advertisments and media integration into daily life, its not hard to find advertisments in corners that were previously uninhabited. So it follows that the large push for business and sales overlaps with the personal desire to achieve and acquire. The result is materialism, a pervasive and expensive habit, while also somewhat fulfilling.
Materialism. Like the prompt, using the word as a stand alone concept draws intrique, introspection, and intent. Depending on personal preference, it can be either positive or negative, yet it invokes a sense of physicality. Objects, posessions, materials... these things become the definition by which success or happiness is gauged in life under materialism as a paradigm. Materialism fuels the machine that is capitolist society. Materialsim functions as a result of human psychological desire to improve and adapt. Materialism is a status indicator. Materialism signifies sucess over peers, accomplishment, achievement. In today's society, materialism means you are among the upper class, and those who do not have the level of acquired materials that they desire often strive to attain said levels.
Look no futher than a mall for an example of materialism in practice. There, every whim and desire is satisfied, from high fashion to food to sex. Each of these particular facets has a physical object counterpart or sets of counterparts, which can be acquired to varying degrees. Food, for instance, serves a base function in providing energy to the consumer. So why purchase a cuisinart stand mixer or samsung smart technology integrated refrigerator when a block of ice and hands would perform the same relative function? The answer lies not just in increased functionality, as the point of technology is to improve functionality and decrease work. The more relative concern here is that these objects are a status symbol, they are relative unnecessary conveniences, they are the technological expression of success and wealth. And this is conveyed to user everytime the device is used as well as anyone who might see it in their home or be party to its use in one form or another.
Yet materialism is expensive. There is a never ending stream of developments and innovations. It is impossible to have the top of the line product for long. There will always continue to be a new and better item, experience, or purchase enticing the followers of materialism to seek a new higher thrill. And this incentivization perpetuates the cycle. What is important to realize here is that this in and of itself is not a bad or evil thing. Given the appropriate resources, persuit of leisure or pleasure through materialistic means is as viable of a way as any. 
While materialsim seems like a negative topic, the truth is much less black and white. Instead, I posit that it is more of a societal reflection of the exchange between psychology, competition, and capitalism. As the world continues to manufacture goods and culture evolves, materialism will continue as a way of life. 
