Happiness is one thing we can all agree is an important goal in life. How that is defined and obtained can differ from person to person, however. For some, happiness is found in setting and checking off life goals. For others it's contributing to the world around them -- to leave the world a better place than when they arrived. For others it's a calculus of some of each, and it's this last category in which I find myself. 

If I'm only focused on others, I begin to resent them. I don't feel bad about pursuing my own goals and finding my happiness. That may be saving up and working long hours and skipping out on social activities to take a trip to Australia. However, if I focus only on myself, that would be an empty lot for me. I truly do find joy in helping others as well. I believe in the concept of "ubuntu," that we are all in this together, and our actions effect others. "I am because we are" the saying goes. I want to find happiness while also being the cause of it.

Some may find it a waste of time and resources to consider others. They take what is offered, with or without a word of thanks, and move up the ladder toward the next achievement. To me that would empty because people are part of my happiness. My greatest memories have usually included bonding with another person or sharing the experience with them somehow. I maybe went alone to Australia but once there I was able to meet myriad strangers and share beautiful conversations and hikes and meals. If not in the moment, then I look forward to sharing my experiences with them after the fact. Being more isolated during the pandemic has made this even more evident as I miss out on being able to share in the same way I was once able.

In conclusion, while each person is different and I generally support their personal path to finding happiness, I know that for me I am robbed of said happiness if don't share it. If I have the resources and hoard them. I remember that at the end of the book Into the Wild, that Alexander Supertramp, after he'd set off on his adventures alone and proved to himself he could hunt and fish and hitchhike alone, laid down to die alone in that abandoned bus in the remote wilderness in Alaska and penned in his journal that no one would find until he was dead, "Happiness must be shared." 
