Cooperation and competition are two methods for achievement that lie on opposite ends of the spectrum. While cooperation fosters a positive environment that is good for mental health, too often competition results in negativity, hampering success. Similarly cooperation can lead to life long friends whereas competition can cause people to become enemies and lead to a loss of focus resulting in more difficulty attaining success. 

Cooperation is almost by definition a social activity, a coming together. People cooperating lean on each other, learn from each other, and push towards their goals, creating friendships while they create success. The positive time spent together is fantastic for mental health (humans are social animals after all) which in turn impacts physical health, longevity, and productivity, indirectly helping people to achieve goals just by nature of the positivity fostered in an environment of cooperation; Happy, fulfilled, sociable people will simply have more gusto to achieve success. On the flip side, intense competition can breed anger, jealousy, and even hate and lifelong enemies. These negative emotions can lead to mental health problems like anxiety, depression, and perhaps even more severe outcomes. These negative emotions can go hand in hand with health issues like hypertension, obesity, inflammation, and insomnia, which will all work against achieving success. After all, if one is exhausted, sick, and suffering, burnt out, wasting effort trying to outdo someone rather than doing their best together, dealing with a lower rate of productivity due to a negative competitive environment, how can they hope to achieve success to the same extent as people who enjoy a positive cooperative environment?

An environment of cooperation drives success for the individuals involved more effectively and with less risk vs. a competitve environment. Where cooperation is friendly and mutually beneficial, competition is too often negative and mutually exclusive. While cooperation is a driver of happiness, friendship, and success for all involved, competition can lead to a festering environment of jealousy, enmity, and rage, working against each other instead of towards common goals.
