In the world we live in today, the process of attaining happiness is perhaps more arduous than ever. The awful things that happen every day, multiple times a day, are run on 24 hour news cycles; the evil and carelessness of humanity is evident even if we try to ignore it. However, to continue surviving, one should always try their best to set themselves up to find happiness wherever possible. There are varying opinions on how best to achieve this, and indeed it could be argued that the path to happiness varies between individuals. Despite this, every person's journey towards finding and accepting happiness shares this common thread: to find happiness, it is important to have a developed sense of self-love and to know yourself. The best way to work towards these is to set and attain personal goals.

The only relationship that a person will always have, from birth to death, is with themselves. Many Americans neglect this relationship, burdening their sense of self with constant self-deprecation and a feeling of worthlessness; so many never learn how to even move past this stage. Therefore, the first goal of every person - to love and nurture themselves - is one that the work of attaining happiness must be built upon. To paraphrase the bible for this purpose, your foundations must be made of stone, not sand. Meaningful, deep happiness relies on a strong sense of self, which first requires self love. RuPaul famously says it this way: "If you can't love yourself, how in the hell are you going to love somebody else?" This is so true, as until one can forgive themselves and work through their perceived sins, it is very hard to extend that grace to others. In addition, by focusing on personal goals throughout their life, a person becomes a sort of beacon to others. One of self love, acceptance, growth, and joy. Like a lighthouse, others can be guided towards calmer waters of self-tolerance where even they might grow towards loving themselves. By keeping in mind what one desires to become and to achieve, that person contributes to others securing these gifts, sending out a ripple of positive effects in their relationships.

Many have argued that the path to happiness should, instead, have focus on the joy of others. Observing the accomplishments and joy of others can, indeed, bring some fleeting happiness. However, by contenting oneself on the positivity of others, it becomes easy to neglect personal growth. In this, the happiness becomes shallow: a burst of serotonin that dissipates as soon as the stimulus is out of sight. The value of other's happiness lies in its factor of motivation. When a person sees the joy that others have accomplished by being unapologetically themselves, that person may become inspired to begin their own journey towards happiness. The musical artist Lizzo says "If you can love me, you can love yourself." This is an important first step for many people: the realization that they can and should love themselves. But just loving Lizzo cannot make a person love themselves. Again, it circles back to the importance of setting and pursuing personal goals. By bettering oneself always, and giving themselves grace, a framework is set. With this framework, the journey towards happiness relies much less on the kindness of others and instead becomes self-sustaining.

Happiness can be fleeting, even when self-betterment is a constant focus. This does not make self-betterment any less necessary. With each step along the path of personal growth, a person becomes hardier, stronger, and more capable of deep, meaningful love and connection. Though witnessing the happiness of others can be an important catalyst towards developing the self, the self cannot develop without love and growth. Like a tomato plant, which needs water, sun, and pruning to yield the best fruit, the self requires love, challenges, support, and grace to give the sweet, sun-ripened fruit of happiness.
