     Happiness, what is it and how can we acheive it? This is a question that everyone often asks. Or maybe you don't ask it but, you are pursuing it without even realizing it. What makes us happy? Is is achieving our goals or is it making others happy by our actions? This may vary  several degrees depending on the person but, does it really or are we more similar in our pursuit of happiness than we think?
     I think initially people are prone to be selfish and want to achieve their own goals. They strive for perfection in what they do and where they want to go. Getting fresh out of school everything seems possible and getting what you have desired for so long feels great. But, what happens once those goals are achieved? Do you stay happy? I don't believe most people do, I think they then realize that maybe life is empty without making others happy, that their happiness was temporary. People will say "not I" or "this doesn't mean everyone is like this." Maybe they are right but I think not.  Think of people that did anything to get to the top, even if they stepped on others, do they like themselves laying in bed at night or do they contemplate their actions? Even if it doesn't bother them now, it will later. How many stories have you heard of people repenting or apologizing to people when they are older and knocking at deaths door? I bet they wished they had treated people differently. They are thinking back and wishing they had done better by others. 
     Maybe, the more important question should be how do you want to be remembered? That is what makes people repent and regret at an older age. They look back and realize they were wrong, the only pursued their dreams and left others behind. They know people speak ill of them when they are gone. I am sure they wish they put more smiles on peoples faces. But, if they only focused on others then they would feel unaccomplished. So maybe, being happy isn't caused by only pursuing ones goals or only making others happy.
     Perhaps, we should be seeking a balance between both options. Yes we need goals to keep us productive but, lets make those goals happen and treat others well at the same time. Isn't that what really makes others happy, being treated fairly and kindly? Truth in the golden rule of treat others how you wish to be treated.
I bet we would all be much happier in general and as we age if we did this.
