Materialism itself has often been criticized over the years. Does it really make us any happier or have any real benefit or is it just being wasteful? Do we buy things because we really want them or because we are just trying to make ourselves feel better with that small rush when purchasing something new? I think this issue has been around for thousands of years but it has changed slightly in our modern society.

I feel like we as a society deserve criticism for how overly materialistic we have become. Social media has played a part in this problem. We want to be the first person to have something new so we can share it with others and feel like we are part of a certain status group. There has also never been a time where it has been easier to buy whatever we want. Anything you can think of can be delivered to you in 2-3 days, sometimes even the same day. We like the feeling of this kind of instant gratification and we take full advantage of it. The downside is we don't really appreciate what we have nearly as much as we used to and we are as unhappy as ever. Using shopping to fill the void in our lives is very unhealthy and it never works. You need to value yourself more than the things you have.

You could argue this isn't really something that is worthy of criticism though. Being more materialistic than ever may just be a sign of how much more successful we are than in previous generations. We have more resources than we need and can purchase what we want. There is no harm in having more possessions than our parents did and in fact that's probably what they would want for us. You can be materialistic and value your possessions while still valuing life and experiences as well. If you are purchasing things because you get joy from them I don't see a problem with that.

I think there are points to be made for each side but I think we would be happier as a society with less. If we were less wasteful and learned to appreciate what we already have we could be more fulfilled than we currently are. We are constantly being targeted by ads whether it's on the TV, computer, or our cell phones. It's difficult to find any time where you're not having something new thrown at you to buy. I think the key is to resist the urge to support that kind of system. Make sure your basic needs are met and then wait for the occassional luxury purchase. You will find that it feels better than if you were to purchase something brand new every day/week.
