In general BOTH competition and cooperation can be beneficial depending on the circumstances at hand. If one seeks to achieve some sort of remedial or personal sense of being then one can improve some aspect of themselves entirely by competitiveness -- whereas -- in other instances -- one can not readily accomplish larger goals that require many more people, efforts and input (like a large-scale business). The key determinant here is whether or not one should focus more on competition or cooperation -- and the answer depends entirely on what is at stake and what one's goals are. For something more immediately beneficial and rewarding quickly, competition can work very well -- but for longer-term things that may require lots of various forms of effort and dedication then cooperation will surely work much better. For example, if one pursuing a mate then competition benefits them because there is no good way in which cooperation can solely benefit the person and the mating process (usually intially two individuals/beings) -- but if one wants a stable foundation/goal/business-type approach then cooperation benefits more because it allows each individual to offset their workload and combine efforts to achieve something potentially very rewarding in the future for all parties/individuals.

Sometimes there are instances where is specifically can make sense to be competitive -- for example, self-defense or other immediate, danger provoking scenarios. Cooperation won't work out well for one if they are the target of attacks or abuse -- in that case it begets competition to drive an edge in one solidifying their stance and protecting themselves, or increasing their value. Competition works out quite well for defense and remedial effects toward abuse, whereas cooperation is a bad choice because it usually will lead to further assault or puts one in a riskier situation repeatedly. Cooperation sometimes helps in dangerous situations, but if you are the subject -- for example -- of a dangerous instance or poor environment then competition often wins. Competition can yield dangerous events, but can settle scores; cooperativeness can lead to good societies, but can break them too. When we think of a business competition we imagine two sides -- however, competition can be within businesess themselves or businesses on the SAME side. Cooperativeness is also seen as same-sidedness or such benefits, but two sides can cooperate too.

Cooperation, however, largely is the best default because it allows many people and many minds/efforts to offload heavy work needs that'd otherwise be required for one or fewer people, while working together in achieving larger-scale goals that can greatly help everyone with out any extreme need of work. So cooperation is mostly a winner for most humans, animals, and beings in general as cooperation in innate just as competition -- like creates like, force creates resistance, etc. We can evaluate specificially -- or often do -- generally weigh pros vs. cons depending on our capabilities, experiences and so forth. Generally we know which is most "right" for us at any given time -- either cooperating or competiting, especially when we have our sights on what we want at any given or said time/instance. Competition is often seen as bad, but there's quite obviously some good in competition just as in cooperation. Competition doesn't necessarily default to "evil" just as cooperation doesn't always have its roots in the most honest, genuine or agreeable extent of "good" for everyone involved (some may just want to get the most out for themselves & portray an act of sharing/wanting to associate). But just as you can see some light-heartedness in competing to an extent, there is also obviously the potential for cooperative "goodness" to have innate "evil" as well, say, in selfish business endeavors that can tear partners apart.
