As a young girl, I watched Barney every morning while I waited for the scholbus to pick me up for school. I will never forget the Barbie commercials. I would watch in awe as these barbies drove their cars, and slid down the slides. I'd beg my mom to buy them for me. On my birthday, I did receive my Barbie doll and a car to come along with it. I was dissapointed to find out that Barbie could not drive her own car and the magic animated sparkles that followed like in the commercial, were all a lie. I found out that Barbie was not everything the TV made her out to be. You can imagine the dissapointment on my little face. Now, as an adult, I know that everything on television, and social media is all just fluffing things up to make them out to be better or more than what they seem. These impressions have a great effect on individuals in a negative way. This is the reason for the rise in plastic surgery and is leading our world into a state of depression. 

Back in the day, all I had was TV, but now Instagram and Tiktok exist. They are social media platforms that are very widely used in the world today. The platforms allow users to change their appearance to make them appear thinner, have clearer skin, to update and beautify their backgrounds. One can argue that perhaps I am taking this too far..that it's just fun and games. But think about it. Back then, it was just television.. Only certain times a day. Now, we have billions of individuals changing their appearances to look "better" than how they appear in person. This leads to a domino effect. Everyone does it. Now when they look at themselves in the mirror, these people find fault within themselves. This leads to depression and altering of the human body/face. Instead, platforms and television should showcase the inner beauty of people. The domino-effect of this would promote positivity and growth within our nations. We would spend less time on beauty and psychological issues, and more on more important things like community involvement, education, equality etc. 

Barbie today has evolved to look more realistic and inclusive of all people. TV, and social media create these images and impressions that everything is better, when in reality, they are just normal things; people. Let's turn it around and create spaces that welcome everything that is natural and true so that we can in turn exist in a society that is not blinded by all the fake "advertisements" that exist all around us.


