When addressing cooperation as opposed to competition as a way to be successful, i believe it depends on the situation.  An example where eompetition is better is when several candidates for a job take an exam; such as a civil service exam, and the person who scores highest has the best chance of being appointed to the job.  In this case competition is good because the person who scores the highest has shown they are the best suited for the job and the company will benefit as well as the employee.  this is the basisi for almost all civil service jobs; i'ts a nice idea that doesn't always work out but it serves the purpose of eliminating the chance of nepotism or other unfair favoritism.  however, i believe that overall, cooperation is better than competition.
When i think of a competitive environment, i think of a "cutthroat" environment.  A group of people in competition with each other are going to focus on their own actions and consequences.  This doesn't mean that one person won't do a favor for another.  But the bottom line is that competition is meant to bring out the best in the person; not the best in the group.  This is not heard to understand.  If you have a group of being primarily interested in being the "best," the group is going to suffer. For one thing, morale will be destroyed.  People will start taking "short cuts."  Eventually people will most likely start holding grudges against other people in the group.  Not only will the group suffer, but the individuals will suffer as well because they will feel a tremendous amount of resentment when things don't go their way.  
i retired from work three years ago after working at quite a few different jobs for forty years.  I remember a situation where i was employed as an announcer at a relatively small radio station.  It was the most professional station i ever worked at. But competition hurt the moral and this was shown to a great degree when the station managers decided to make some changes.  they decided that the person working the morning shift, which was the most important shift and the highest paying position, would be better suited in the afternoon.  the "mid day" worker took over the morning show, the person who had been working mornings started doing the afternoon show and the person who had been working in the afternoon took over the mid-day show.  i was not involved in any of this because i worked for the "AM" station; the shift changes only applied to the "FM" station.  Not only were there some hurt feelings but people had to rearrange their lives.  a person who is used to waking up at 4:30 AM all of a sudden had to rearrange his sleep schedule which is never an easy thing.  Of course the person who had been doing the morning shift was not happy. He did NOT take a pay cut but the person promoted to the morning shift got a pay RAISE.  what had been a relatively smooth running operation was all of a sudden a radio station of internal turmoil.  This, of course, effected the workers' on-air performance.  I could tell from talking to the people involved that they were either very happy or not happy at all.  Obviously this bitterness spilled over to personal relationships.  it's hard to be friendly with someone who has taken over your shift.  
I use all this to show one example of when competition hurt morale.  The station managers of course wanted a "different sound" so they played "musical chairs" with their staff and it produced tension.  Now i will admit that what the station managers aimed to do may have in the end got what they wanted.  they wanted the station to have differnt people doing different shifts because they thought it would make the station "sound better."  whether they were right or not is questionable. but what is not questionable is that this type of thinking, where the people invovled are moved around like pieces in a jig-saw puzzle is not good for morale.  One person, of course, was happy...the man who got the promotion to the morning shift. but overall, the station became an unhappy place to be.  i saw it.  even though i was working on the "AM" side, i felt the tension when i talked to my co-workers.  Cooperation would have been better for the morale and any advantage the station MAY have got, from a "new sound," was lost because there were some feelings that had been hurt. a game of politics had begun. people who didn't get what they wanted said this had been a case of "favoritism."  
the bottom line is that when given the choice, cooperation is almost always better than competition because happy people are more likely to do good jobs than unhappy people.  At the very least, ALL THREE people involved in the shift changes should have received pay raises.  I know this was not the case.  In other jobs i have had, some in the whacky world of radio but mostly in other jobs, i have seen how important morale is.  It's a basic principal of life that an unhappy person will eventually make others unhappy.  Not only is cooperation beneficial on the job, but a happy worker will take that attitude home.  An unhappy worker is obviously going to be,, at least somewhat, unhappy at home.  And the beautiful thing about all this is that being cooperative is easier than being competitive.  It doesn't come with the pressure; the arguments, the debates,, the bitterness.  
I hope i have shown that although in some cases an argument can be made for competition; in the end it's better to have cooperation. i've seen this time and time again. Life is easier when people respect one another.  And life has enough challenges without adding the element of competition.  
