What does it mean to be materialistic? Having too many possessions. Cars, fancy clothes, a big house? Some might say that we shouldn't be materialistic. That it's a bad thing. One starts to enjoy having these things because it might make them feel important or make them feel like they have a high social status. They might enjoy having other people look up to them for all the things they have. 
Being materialistic could be a good or bad thing. People that are materialistic might consume so many things, they start to not have room in their lives for the things that matter. Friends, family. When you are materialistic, you might not make friends that have the best intentions. It's possible they might want to just be your friend because of all the material stuff you have. A nice car to drive around in, a pool in your backyard, money to go shopping with. Someone might see all these things you have a think they can befriend you and share in all these things.  Those that have a lot of material things, might have trouble trusting others.  
Some people might not think being materialistic is a problem. One might think as long as you don't let those things go to your head. As long as you believe or think we are all equals. That no one is better than anyone else just because they have nice things. If those material things bring you closer together as a family, if they create long lasting memories. It's possible that someone could have a lot of money because they have worked hard for it, but not be materialistic. They might donate to charities often. If they lost everything, it wouldn't affect them very much. It really just depends on the person. There might be people out there that have a lot of money but choose not to flaunt it. They might choose to have a 10 yr old car to drive, or live in a house that cost only 100k when they could afford something that cost 5 times that much. It really just comes down to the person. Are they trying to become popular or admired for the material things they possess or are they genuine and just don't care how others see them.
 If you don't show them off or expect others to see you a certain or better way. 
My conclusion is that being materialistic isn't just a good or bad thing. I believe it depends on how you perceive yourself, and how you want others to perceive you as well. Having things is not necessarily a bad thing. I believe being materialistic is more a personality thing, not a possession thing. Just because you have a lot of money or things, doesn't make you materialistic and just because you might want a lot of material things, doesn't make you that way either. 
