There are many approaches to encouraging success, whether in work, or in sports, or elsewhere. The focus of this essay will be on success in the workplace. One general approach is to use competition. For example, Amazon uses stack ranking to identify strong and weak performers, where rewards and promotions are given based on performance relative to others in the same team. The other approach is to emphasize cooperation. Many companies, like Microsoft, have recently changed their performance assessment strategies to move away from stack ranking in order to promote more harmony within the team and remove politics and intra-team conflict.

In my opinion, people achieve more by cooperation because it is more important to focus on overall success rather than individual success.

In a modern workplace where teamwork is essential, introducing competition between team members will result in a conflict of goals for the overall team vs the individual. There are many situations where each team member has different strengths, and helping each other will improve output for all team members. However, if an individual is encouraged to outperform their teammates, then they are disincentivized from helping their teammates, so team members can no longer supplement their weaknesses with another team member's strengths. Competition may result in higher individual success, but it harms the overall team's success, which should be a business' goal. 

Of course, there are arguments to be made for the competitive model as well. By encouraging competition, it gives team members pressure so that there are fewer "slackers" who get carried by their more competent co-workers. Higher pressure can also lead to higher performance even from the good workers, depending on their personality and working style. In addition, if a team's tasks are divided well enough so that they play to each member's strengths, without requiring help from other team members, then theoretically that aspect of cooperation is not as important.

Overall, however, the cooperative model should still be the superior one for success in a workplace. As work becomes more and more complex and inter-disciplinary coordination becomes more common, it's more and more crucial for people to work with and help each other without any reservations. Anything that adds barriers to that and introduces conflicting interests within a team will harm the overall results far more than any benefits it can add to the team through higher individual performance. 
