     Do we as a society care too much about items, and are we caught in a cycle of more stuff is the key to happiness? I believe that was indeed give too much reverence to such "things". Are we missing the point of our short lived lives on earth? Are we naive to what really matters while we slowely get consumed by ther traps created by capitilism? Is that new T.V. really nessacary when the one you have isn't even broken? 

     We have been bought and sold a value system that is so far from what really matters and have been conditioned to being pawns for corperations. Our quality of life has been decreased to make a few people wealthy. But all of that stuff sure does seem kind of nice i will admit. That new phone comes in handy when you are trying to drive across the country or finding a place to buy quality prostitutes i must agree. Our values have been bought and sold but we are the ones buying what they are selling. Who's to blame? Are we the victims when we are voluntarly buying the newest flashiest "things". Or are they to blame by putting their greed in front of our well being with maniuplation all for their gain. 

    Money doesn't buy happiness and items don't make up the content of ones character. There is a line somewhere between making our lives easier and convincing us those problems were in need of a cheat code to begin with. The amount of research and data farming that goes into trying to and correctly understanding peoples bahavior. There is definiatly a overstep into privacy to have algorythems try and tell us what and when to buy. Would it be better to go back to the stone age without modern medicine? Probally not but would it be better to live without the new roblox update that costs money so my daughter can buy digital clothes for a digital alien looking whore character i think we can live without that. It's a balance act that we no longer have much control over. The genie is out of the bottle and im affraid there is no putting him back. I like to make money also so i can't blame them but at the same time, FUCK them. As much as i know that my neighbors wifes fake boobs are not imporving the character of his life i still wish my wife could get some new ta ta's. 


   I think we are both to blame and the best way to not get caught up in the traps is to be self aware. We spend too much money on things we don't need but we also spend too much time complaining about things instead of doing something about them. We don't need all the bells and whistles lets be real but god damn are they fancy and shiny and boy oh boy do we love them. So keep making more and i will keep buying. 

