When asking if modern society should be criticized for being materialistic, it is important  to examine the exact usage of the word "materialistic" and the level of materialism suggested. In simple terms, yes a society should be criticized if it is overly materialistic, however that is an oversimplification of the issue. 

To begin, the production and consumption of objects is a necessary part of human existence. Humans rely on shelter and agriculture to survive and thrive. Beyond that, humans tend to take pride in their possessions in addition to their use in sustaining life. For example, look at Soviet-style apartment blocs. Ugly, grey and beige buildings with little to distinguish them from each other versus unique constructions found throughout the rest of the world. One type is dull and grim, the other is a source of pride for its owner. It's another oversimplification, but Soviet-style construction is on the way out in the developed world while the other style is thriving. The disdain felt for ghettoes and Soviet apartment blocs can only prove to some extent the pride of ownership many people feel for their dwellings and possessions beyond their utilitarian aspects. Some level of materialism can be useful to society and should be encouraged. 

An argument against this line of thinking might be that any level of materialism can be a slippery slope to an obsession that negatively affects one's life. For example, think of a parent who spends an inordinate amount of their time shopping when they should be spending time with their children. I would say that, yes, it is possible, but it is up to each person to make that decision for themselves as to what amount of materialism is acceptable. Every person knows their own life best, and moreso is responsible for that life. It would be wrong for some kind of governing body to step in and deny these basic personal freedoms of decision and responsibility. 

In conclusion, materialism can be considered a double-edged sword. One edge represents basic freedoms that all humans are born to enjoy, while the other represents a pathway to greed and moral corruption. An overly materialistic society should be criticized, but the exact point at which materialism becomes unacceptable is difficult to determine. 
