                    The world's greatest thing is happiness. Because the happiness spreads the positive vibes and our surrounding keeps peaceful. Without happiness no one can live their life peacefully. The happiness is one of our emotions. Happiness makes the world happily, happiness is equal whether they rich or poor. Some peoples achieve their own goals, they found their happiness into that.


                   Some people create their happiness to do help others with humanity. Happiness comes when people see their children's smiles. Happiness can buy or sell with the money. Because the happiness was precious thing in the world. When people see their victory or achieve something in their life they can see the happiness and their family and friends also gets happy for them. 


                   In addition, true happiness comes from within yourself. Happiness is basically state of mind. Finding a happiness is tough for poor people. The happiness for the world is create a good vibe in the society. When the people understand other's feelings and they comfort them it will create happiness for both of them. The happiness is help to come out stress, anxiety and sad. The happiness was found when they do a good things to the world. True happiness is enjoying your own company.                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
