Humans, are increadibly visual creatures. There is no sense we utilize that is more important, more dominant than that of our sight. It is the nature of sight to be quick and to leave an immediate mental impression. This, has dire consequences. Many things are not quick and easy to decipher, how suitable a political candidate is for example; Yet this contrasts with the very nature of our primary sense. This leads to poor impulsive decision making as the superficial becomes the focus, leaving, in many cases, the important facts of the matter hidden and unconsidered.

Consider the aformentioned political candidate, more specifially consider US Presidents. Tall candidates are more likely to win. Not by an overwhelming margin mind you, but by a statistically significant amount. Is there some form of inherent superiority of thought, present in those of taller statures? Does looking at the world from a few inches higher, grant perspectives that are superior and unbeknownst to the shorter amoungst us? No, that's absured. This means, that statistically speaking taller candidates are more likely to win, because people see that they are taller, and that's visually pleasing. By virture of a characteristic that is unrelated to their given task, they are more likely to win. The visual impression left by their height, affects a decision that should arguably not be effected by height at all.

Color theory is another example. Just by altering the color, we can effect how people view and interperet things and people presented to them. Reds and Oranges can help instill agression and hostility, whereas blues and greys can can instill soothing and calm thoughts. But did they change the actual object they are on? Imgaine if you would, a literal pink panther. Silly isn't it? Yet is it any less dangerous? Has the creature's lethality been reduced? It's claws are just as sharp, it's fangs just as long. Yet with a simple palette swap, they have been partially 'De-fanged' in our mind.

This pattern, of visual stimuli failling to represent reality, is seen everywhere. It effects what we choose to buy, who we vote for, who we trust. It is an ever present factor in our disicion making. Yet is so easily biased. So easily manipulated and twisted. People let a tool, one of several they have, decide some of the most important questions they face on an almost daily basis. That scares me. Does it scare you?
