     A huge point of debate in today's society is that of materialism.  A lot of our moral teachings tell us to not be materialistic, and that spending more money and buying more stuff won't make us happy. However, we live in a society that heavily promotes consumerism and buying more and more stuff.  Society tells us we need to buy more or spend more to achieve happiness in our lives. While the majority of people may engage in this consumerism and putting their energy into producing and consuming more, this doesn't necessarily mean it is right or that modern society shouldn't be criticized for it.  There are alternative ways of being satisfied and happy with your life.
    Today's society, especially in the United States, promotes an attitude of consumerism.  This attitude is highly prevelant throughout our society.  We see tons of ads on TV, hear ads on the radio, see ads/billboards while driving down the highway, all telling us we need to try this or that new product, or buy this or that new item.  We need new cars, the latest new technology, the hippest new fashions.  We need those fancy new shoes that cost $200 a pair to show off our "status" or "prestige", or to feel like we have meaning or value.  We need all of these extra possessions to show how successful we are in life.  Our capitalist society promotes an attitude of "buy, buy, buy". We are told by society that we won't be truly happy unless we have these possessions.  Many people fall into this trap, and can only feel fulfilled if they are constantly buying things or spending tons of money.  The truth is, buying and spending can only fulfill you a certain extent.
     They say money doesn't buy happiness.  While having money and being able to afford necessities in your life definitely helps you lead a less stressful and therefore happier life, this is only true to a certain extent.  There is a ceiling that you reach once you possess over a certain amount of money.  Past this point, more money and buying more material possessions won't actually make you truly happy.  It is important to have something in your life in which you can feel happy and fulfilled without money or buying some sort of possession.  Modern society puts far too much emphasis and importance on buying and owning things.  You can find happiness in life through a hobby or an activity you enjoy.  You can find just as much satifaction and joy in taking a hike in the beautiful mountains or spending time with friends as you could buying another new $50 t-shirt that you don't really need.  It is important to be able to find happiness in experiences and not just stuff.  Money can certainly be the root of evil, and it is important to not put too much emphasis or importance on it. It will make you a better, more well-rounded person.  Modern society should be criticized for putting so much emphasis on consumerism and materialism, and not enough emphasis on finding happiness and fulfillment in other ways.
     Our society definitely promotes consumerism and materialism as the main way to be happy. Modern society tells us we need to buy more, spend more, to be able to find meaning and joy in our lives.  While many people buy into this and engage in this behavior, it doesn't necessarily mean its right or that society shouldn't be criticized for promoting this capitalist attitude.  Society should put more emphasis and effort into promoting being happy without so many material possessions or buying so much stuff, much of which we don't really need.  Society should focus on other ways to be happy and fulfilled, such as a fun hobby or participating in an activity you enjoy.  Life should be about experiences, and not just material possessions.  Even though this would make for a much better and happier society, since capitalism is so prevalent in our modern day society, it is probably unlikely that society's focus will ever shift away from promoting materialism.
