All humans aspire to be happy one way or another. Everyone is able to gain happiness in different ways; being charitable, recieving compliments, or simply going about their lives without conflict. However, one cannot truly be happy until they are at peace with themselves, because if you are not in touch with yourself, it is difficult to be in touch with your emotions, and you cannot fully experience happiness in that way. One you reach a point in your life in which you fully understand yourself and what you truly want, then you can begin to focus on others. Emotions and happiness originate from within. Getting in touch with yourself in order to fully experience all you can is the best thing for yourselff. 

What is true happiness? Is it contentment? Is it joy? Is it the ability to find pleasure in things? Happiness is not something that can be forced. It is not overly difficult to make oneself sad, angry, anxious, or anything negative. However, being able to simply cause yourself joy from nothing is difficult. Yet, it is not impossible. That is where true happiness comes from. Happy people are able to look back on their own experiences with few regrets, maybe wishing they could reexperience things again, but are also content with where they are now. That focus on the self, reaching your achievements, not letting an opportunity slip past, is what true happiness is, and no other can control that. 

Other people can make you happy, that is undeniable. However, to fully experience that happiness to the fullest extent is not possible unless you already have that connection with yourself. If you are not truly comfortable with yourself, the whole time you are experiencing that 'happiness', you will be asking yourself if you really deserve it. There will be doubts, and those doubts cloud the experience and the emotions, stopping you from feeling the full extent of the happiness. Finding joy in helping others is common; without it, we would not have doctors, therapists, teachers, and more. Yet again, that happiness still comes from within. The person needs to understand why they are helping others, why it makes them so happy. A lot of that comes from achieving their own goals. Happiness from the self and happiness from others are not mutually exclusive, it is possible that your goal is to help others. By helping others and making them happy, you are reaching your own goals, creating internal happiness. 

All in all, there is no situation in which you have a person who only focuses on themselves without even considering the happiness of others, or a person who only focuses on the happiness of others who does not meet their goals along the way. The two concepts are completely intertwined. Going through the journey to find what truly makes yourself happy is a difficult, yet important one. Everyone has their passions, so go out there and find it. The only thing to do is learn, understand, and be happy. 
