Would you like to be thinner? More glamorous? More handsome or beautiful?  Eat this!  Try this product! Look at this person  - you can be like them too!!  We are bombarded by false appearances every single day in media, both social and otherwise.  But are perceptions reality?  Does being subject to these unrealistic expecatations have too much of an effect on people?

We live in a society of filters and of what people want us to see.  For example, you see a family - two parents, two kids and a dog smiling for photos.  They are well dressed.  Everyone is well behaved.  Everyone is smiling and looks beautiful.  It looks like this family has it all together.  What you may not be seeing is that one parent just lost their job.  A child is battling a learning disability.  The house is full of yelling.  But none of that is seen in the photo.  In this snippit in time the takeaway to the viewier is a happy, loving family with no problems in the world.  Or how about the young woman posing in front of a mirror.  She is thin, beautiful, happy and promoting a special tea or bar.  Behind the scenes this woman is actually recovering from an eating disorder.  Images like this can absolutely effect those who view them on a daily basis.  It can make the viewer feel as if what they have in their own life is not good enough.  Is inadequate.  Is unworthy.

Teens and young adults are likely more susceptible to wanting to keep up the appearances they see online.  Even middle aged or senior adults could covet what they see online.  You see the Johnson family went on a vacation to Hawaii.  How is that possible?  They are both teachers?  Why can't we go to Hawaii?  We don't see that the Johnson family had a winfall from a relative who died.  Who hadn't been on a vacation ever.  Who before this winfall had times when their heat or electricity was cut off.  The Johnson family doesn't want to share their struggles with the world.  They want to show the world that they too have an idealistic life.

More recently on social media people have been showing the "behind the scenes."  A young person in work out gear looking thin and muscular or toned in the right light.  But then they show you the other side.  How they sucked in their stomach.  How they angled their arm just right.  How the lighting has to be from the right, not the left or straight on.  These posts are what the world needs.  To see the reality behind the filter.  This is when viewers can realize what they see on screen is no better than what they have or how they look in their own lives.

Images and impressions do have an effect on people.  Whether it is too much of an effect depends on whether the individual is able to separate what they see behind the filter from reality.  Those who are showing the behind the scenes can affect change and let others see that their own reality is just fine.
