While there may be dictionary definition of 'happiness' that would involve laughter, joy and contentment, how people feel 'happy' is not an absolute concept. Since there are so many people around the world, happiness usually reflect types of personality that would rely on people's cultures and surroundings. Hence, there have been people who show excitement after accomplishing their goals/projects and those who embrace others at the announcement of other people's successess.

Cultures that rely on group cohesion and collective mentality would find people's happiness on celebration of family member's weddings, coming of age of children, and accomplishments of a family member to name a few. While people are happy about one another in this type of cultures, people can also be happy with group accomplishment and success in cultures that would appear more individualistic. This type of happiness may define some people's individual aspirations of climbing a professional/career ladder, some people's efforts of appearing charitable to others, and some people's way of attaining individual happiness. To the latter, it is some people's way of saying "Let me take care of others first before I take care of myself." For these people, it seems ideal to reach happiness that is unique to their personal experience. 

Are some people really happy in a collectivist setting? They may show happiness because it seems appropriate as part of their society or culture. Some individuals may feel pressure because showing happiness would impress certain figures in a family or an organization. These could lead to conflict of personality for some individuals. However problematic these could be, some individuals may have to set priority or decide how they want to live/survive down the road. 

There could be criticism of selfishness to attaining personal goals that are unique for their own. People can argue that there are parts of lives that are struggling while a person or groups of people only care about the bucket of list. Some of these people may have served others through their occupation or charity. Certainly, there are some individuals who care less about sufferings of others. In the end, people have their rights to how they want to attain happiness. 

There are reports that few individuals show excitement at the suffering of others. Criminals and psychopaths are happy when they commit acts that have violated the law and the norms of society. While they abnormally attain happiness that would lead to criminality and stigma, there are still certain few that feel happiness after climbing Mount Everest, walking on a tightrope crossing Niagara Falls, and parachuting from an airplane to name a few. To many, these are just dangerous and unrealistic to attain while these could be part of a bucket list to a daring certain few. After all, happiness is part of lives however means people attain it. 

