needs vs. wants. why do we as a society feel that we need things that are not essential to our daily lives?  why do we want things that add no value to our existance?  do these desires come from within or without? is our dna now wired to work this way from birth or are we conditioned to think as such?

being able to answer those questions will draw you to my personal conclusion. yet, there are others, of course, that may feel that what is considered to be "materialism" today is just the normal way of life.  if everyone is doing it then it isnt really a "thing".  it is just living.  materialism is when you spend money excessively or you only buy things to make others perceive you a certain way.  you cannoy call me materialistic if i just happen to like nice things.  i work hard for my money and i can purchase whatever i want, however many i want, and whenever i want.

so how did you come to that mindset?  who implanted that idea of "it's my money, i'll do what i want" into your head?  here in the usa, media and advertising is big business.  they need you to believe that you need things that you dont to ensure that their pockets stay full.  and as the world moves rapidly away from spirituality and pride of self, pride of culture and home... how do they fill the void?  they fill it with vapid happiness.  the microwave generation, as it is said.  instant gratification.

sometimes i do blame the parents and grandparents for not raising their children with the hardwork ethics and being content with what you have.  they have to take accountability in misleading this generation by "giving them what they never had".  because what you did have was more precious.  you had family, the understanding of the value of a dollar, skills to make your possesions last... you had pride in education and the inward man more than the outward. still, the media is a hard drug to ignore.  and with the dynamics of this world changing where children are more and more left in front of screens rather than playing outside, they are being raised by the wishes of corporations.

so it is a collective fault.  big business and small homes.  the world that we live in almost requires that you fall into the trap of materialism, but it our job to be conscious and say "i have enough. i am enough."

