      Happines is an incredibly difficult thing to capture.  Does happines come from the inside?  Does it come from the outside - that is acheiving and receiving certain things?  Is it obtainable in any real way?  This essay will assert that true happines come from the pursuit of helping others and loved ones for the overwhelming majority of people.  There are outliers, of course.  Some indiviuduals simply find happiness in attaining a life goal - but most of humanity simply lives to live - that is, life has meaning simply in its existence around others whom you love.  There are, of course, moral considerations as well - did I live a moral life?  These play into a persons's subjective happiness as well - but so much of this comes back around to a simple  question: did I help people?  Did I live a good life and contibute to those around me?
     Imagine lying on your death bed, barely able to keep your eyes open.  You can feel death staring at you, tugging at you, trying to take away.  You look around the hospital room.  What do you see?  What do you hope to see?  The answer for me, and I believe most people is: you hope to see your loved ones.   It is incredibly difficult to deal with death for most of us - our consciousness is simply unable to imagine itself not existing.  Thus, it is in family, and friends, that we find meaning and our contributions to this world live on.  There are goals spread around our life that give us further meaning, of course.  Maybe a promotion matters to you around the age of, say, 40.  Maybe  buying a bigger house seems like a necessity at the age of, say, 50.  But overall, those goals fall away and become meaningless to us over time.  Family is what defines most of us and someday, when we leave this world, we hope to see our loved runs surrounding us.  We hope to see that we helped them acheive their goals, and in doing so, find happiness for themselves.  This instinct is most present in the relationship between parent and child - any good parent wishes to see their child survive and thrive, over their own comfort and happiness.  Family, in general, matters too though - not just a child.  Did I give my parents enough love and appreciation?  Did I call my mother on Mother's Day?  Did I thank Dad for teaching me to drive?  Did I say thank you to friends whom saved me too many times to count?   These people gave little portions of their lives and being over to us, often expecting nothing in return.  We MUST do the same, if we are to be and feel human.  That promotion, or house, don't matter on your deathbed.
        Happiness is subjective.  It means different things to different people.  It is certainly feasible that achieving a life goal is the only essential part of happiness for some - but even then that life goal is certainly connected to others.  No person on their death bed would lament not making enough money for themselves - you can't take it with you.  My father used to say: "Most people in life aren't going to have a life like George Washington." - meaning most people are not titans of history whose life is defind by historal acts.  Most of us find meaning in cultivating our families and social circles, contributing even just with our general presence.  Even in the case of George Washington, he made his decisions imagining the countless millions who would follow him and benefit because of his choices.  Even in pursuing massive goals like independence for an entire nation, Washington had others in mind.  Though subjective, happiness is always rooted in others.  Again, put yourself on that deathbed - do you care about your job?  Your car?  Or do you care about your family?  Your friends?  Again, the overwhelming majority of people, you care about your loved ones and what you did for them.  Any regrets you might have are almost certainly related to people - not having done enough, not being apprecative enough.  General every day goals you might set for yourself DO give life meaning, and succeeding in them, even more so - but they simply do not compare to weight of helping and loving others.

