Are people happier focusing on their own goals, or are they the happiest helping others reach their own goals. I really feel that people, in all their actions, and at their very core are greedy. What I mean by this is people are happier when they chase their own goals, whatever they may be. 

That is not to say people are not happy to help others. What it really means is those people who help others is because it gives them a good feeling to help other, so they are internally chasing that feeling it gives them on the inside from helping others. They help a person, then  they get a good happy feeling from it, and even if they do not realize it they did it for themselves. Even if they feel they did it for someone else.

I feel this is how people operate in their everyday lives. Some people choose to focus on their own goals first because the feeling we get from accomplishing our own goals is the same feeling we get from helping others as well. That sense of accomplishment, that shot of dopomine in the brain. Different people take different approachs to the same goal, the feeling of success. That is what drives all of us as humans.

Like I said, people might argue that helping others is not selfish, but if you think about it, it kind of is still but in a good way. If I asked you for a glass of water, you might bring me a glass of water because you like the feeling of taking care of people, or seeing others smile, or you like the feeling of being useful because you do not want to see a person suffer or feel useless yourself. Some people have the goal of being a people pleaser in a way. Some see it as a way of getting ahead in life.

Other people would be happier pursueing their own goals because they feel happier from seeing the fruits of their labor. Everyone does this in their own way. I mean really, would anybody really do something they saw no benefit from in some way.

I guess the crux of my arguement would be that no one does things solely for the sake of others unless they get something out of it. Even if that something is just a good feeling, or a feeling of self sacrfice they can hold inside that they benefited the world in some way, or the feeling of being a hero in some kind of way. 

Ask yourself when was the last time you did something for a person, look really deep down and self analyze, and ask yourself why did you do that something. It probably wasn't a hassle or trouble to you was it, and you probably feel pretty good about yourself even in a small way that you could be of use, that you were needed and wanted, and you feel good about that. Well, you really did that for you didn't you.

Well, you might say that getting me a glass of water was annoying and you didn't really want to, but you did... Why? Maybe because YOU didn't want to fight about it, or YOU didn't want to feel bad for not helping me out. Still, that was for you. Your goal was all for you, even though you helped me at the same time. 

So people are happier chasing their own goals, even if they think they are happier helping others. 
