      It can be said that false advertising has reached an all time high. Especially in the era of the internet where false claims can be made freely, images can be doctored, and a fraudulent message can reach larger audiences than ever before. From a product being sold that differs from the image uploaded to represent it, to hateful propoganda staging a strawman to drum up controversy. It's all too easy to manipulate people these days.

     The problem can be attributed to the unregulated environment that the online world is. Our internet is not unlike an anarcho capitalist society. Anything can be said by anyone and there is no real regulation. What matters to the advertiser in this sphere is only outreach. Nothing is too immoral if it gets more clicks, especially with the application of search algorithms that direct traffic to the most attention grabbing sources.  For proof you need only look at the industry that online advertising has become, the amount of money directed towards advertising by politicians and corporations has increased relative to internet traffic over the years. 

     While the internet is not entirely without regulation, for example mainstream social media platforms issue bans, and moderate posts that violate their terms, the rules of Twitter or Instagram are no ironclad legal system. A user can be banned, but they can just as easily make a new account. Their IP address can be blocked, but they can just as easily use a VPN. Failing all that, they can always take to another platform. The search algorithms mentioned earlier can of course direct traffic away from disinformation, but those algorithms are owned and operated by private corporations. It is more profitable to direct traffic towards inflammatory or controversial messages.

      It could also be said that hate is at an all time high. People hating people for their identities or the way they were born. The internet doesn't just enable advertisers to promote prettier images, but uglier representations of those they dislike. It's a daily occurence on the internet, you can't go far without seeing people outraged at an imaginary enemy that's been fed to them because it caught on with an algorithm. People will spend hours searching for more to be mad about, more reasons to hate some boogeyman that they will never meet in their real life. All of this because of a post villifying a type of person and claiming that they are a threat.

     Advertising on the internet, especially political advertising, is becoming a very dangerous thing. Psychologically, it is not healthy for people to be told that their beliefs are beautiful, shining, perfect beacons of all that is good, and others are vile, evil, and encroaching threats they must be ready for. It is not safe, even. Yet internet traffic can be measured, and the results show that this volatile content is what drives the most activity. By getting more clicks faster, sparkling loud lies drown out the truth. Going forward it is very important for people to be mindful of these deceptions and their methods. Promoting awareness of deceit on the internet is critical if online advertising is to be anything more than propoganda fed through a funnel.
