Happiness. To some, it comes naturally, effortlessly, and thoughtlessly. However to many, it is seen as elusive, fleeting, rare, or even almost an impossible goal. There are several steps to achieving happiness which for some could happen in a single day but for others could take years or even a lifetime.
The first step to becoming happy is to understand oneself. Happiness is not a concrete definition that applys to all of humanity. It takes many different forms for many different types of people. Therefore, the first thing that must be understood is what type of person are you? Easier said than done, right? 
Understanding yourself requires not only self-analyzation but also asking advice from others. Many times our understanding of ourselves is incomplete or missing information due to our blind spots. When you understand yourself, then you know how to be in harmony with the people around you. When you understand yourself, you become a happier person because you know what you like and dislike and you can shape your life to be as happy as possible. This is not selfish. When you make yourself a happier person, you will also make the people around you happier as well. People like to be around someone who is in a good mood and dislike to be around those who are negative. 
How sociable are you? How important is creativity to you? To know yourself, you must acquire many different kinds of life experiences to understand what you like and dislike. This could potentially require writing your experiences into a journal of some kind over months or years. You can then add things into your life that bring you joy. When you become happy and content, your happiness will be contagious to the people around you. 
So once someone understands themselves better, they can move on to the second step to becoming happy which is studying and forming a plan. Are you going to be the kind of person that works a boring job for thirty years and becomes a boring person? Or does that boredom motivate you to study how to do a job that you enjoy more? If you are around a bunch of people that you don't like or even actively dislike, what concrete steps could you take to have a better attitude? Can you analyze the people around you and figure out what makes them laugh? 
What concrete steps could you take to meet people that have a lot in common with you? Where are those people? What are they like? What hobbies do they share with you? What common goals do they have?
So you make a plan regarding your work and the people around you as well as hobbies and goals that you have. The third and final step is to implement those goals and plans. There will be successes and failures. Write and log those as well in your journal. There will be a lot of trial and error and that is okay. There may even be eight failures for every two successes and that is okay as well. Give it months or even years, but keep trying. Once you succeed is becoming a happier person and align your life with your strengths and joys, you can then have much more time to focus on and help those who are around you. People may even ask you for life advice since they see your life is in alignment with that which brings you joy. 
Finding joy for yourself and for those around you and bringing yourself and your community into peace, joy and harmony is a beautiful goal. Good luck!
