Images and impressions tend to be held to highly in how things are interpretted. If something looks amazing on the outside people often tend to not pay close attention to the person or product that they are observing. In most advertisements we see these seemingly perfect people with a big smile, flawless skin, and the perfect attire when in reality most people don't fit that profile without make up. Simply take a look into the history of clothing and the different things that have come into existance to make a person appear different than as they really are. This goes for makeup as well, in that we are being programmed to feel that we have to look a certain way to be "beautiful".
Take for example the corset that first was started long ago and consisted of someone having to force the person into the corset and tightening it as much as possible. This led to health complications and more often that not it would cause the wearer to faint from not being able to get proper oxygen in the body. Today they are not done in the same way but a lot of women feel the need to purchase them. Now, we even have a wrap version available, which looking at how it just forces everything in and advertising showing a person who went from chubby to an hourglass shape persuades people to purchase them. I recently purchased one desiring the results of looking thinner and though the product looked great online...it causes bulges and does not give that "perfect figure". Yes, all body types are different, as we are all aware but the advertising should show different body types with the product to get a better impression. They use people that only slightly have a stomach and advertise that it is good for every body size when it is not.
Let me get into the whole thing with makeup and just how misleading it can be. A lot of celebrities and other influencial people are often seen with the perfect complextion but once you remove all the makeup they look entirely different. This is because as a society we have pushed looking perfect as the standard of beauty. If you have blimishes, stretch marks, scars or just look a little different...you can now buy products to make them vanish. We look at this painted version of a person and think how pretty they are and sometimes wish to look the same; the sad reality is that people then ignore the internal attributes of the person. Their ignorance is ignored. Their bad habits ignored. Their insensarity or rudeness is often ignored as well. Appearances have come to be more important than a persons inner self because we are pushed to believe we have to look good to others.
All together it has been seen time and time again where images and visual impressions have outweighed everything else. You can look on just about any social media website and find people that are just horrible as people but have thousands of followers simply because of how they physically look. You could even include things like drink mixes into this as well. More people on average will purchase Nesquick because of the design elements compared to store brands because they associate that image with being something better than the others. In reality they are virtually the same in most cases but due to the different packaging people choose one over the other. If we simply looked at what something is instead of the visual stimulants then many opinions would change on various things. Visuals have become more important than other aspects of things not just products but people as well. We choose to ignore the negatives if something is presented beautifully because the first thing people often judge is what they see. It is a normal thing to form an opinion based soley on how something appears. We should focus more on what a person or thing actually is instead of forming opinion based on what our eyes can see. Visuals can be very misleading while if someone took the time to investigate further they might not like it as much. It is something that people have been doing for so long that it is a habit that will probably continue to stick around for generations to come.
