     Success can be measured by a variety of constructs, both qualitatively and quantitatively.  When looking to determine whether individuals are more successful based on their ability to cooperate with others or through competition poses an interesting discussion, driven by how one might define success.  As such, for the purposes of this essay, it is thought that individual's achieve more success through cooperation.  This allows opportunities to build upon individual strengths within the collaborative group, it shares the burden of the task at hand, and it promotes better interpersonal relationships that can foster additional opportunities for success. 

     When working as a team, cooperating with others is tantemount for continued success.  Cooperation allows individuals to hone in on their strengths while relying on their peers to complete tasks associated with their own strengths.  Collaboratively writing a paper for publication with members of the same lab offers a good example of how success can be amplified when working cooperatively.  Some individuals are stronger at performing literature reviews whereas others are better at analyzing the data and sharing those results in a succient manner.  This not only increases the efficiency of the group but it will likely push out more publications which quantitatively increases an individual's success.  By allowing individuals to focus on what they are best at, it also decreases the burden placed upon each individual.  This arguably could limit the burn-out rates and feelings that they are in competition with others.  Looking to an individual seeking a tenureship position in academia; if someone wanted to tackle the tasks that would make them a competitive applicant, it would be important that they can rely on others to push out high quantities of quality work.  Furthermore, continued positive cooperation creates a standard of practice and reputation that follows members of the team into the work they do elsewhere.  While cut-throat competition can be unavoidable at times, the emphasis on raising everyone up rather than becoming the top-dog allows for increased and more regular successful achievements for everyone. 

     While this essay primarily discussed the utility of cooperation within success, it cannot be unstated that competition serves a purpose within successful achievements.  However, when determining what exacctly allows individuals to be more successful, it is clear that cooperation focuses on individual strengths that offer diveristy and efficacy to the team, shares the negative aspects of the task so all are not overwhelmed, and encourages positive relationships amongst coworkers/peers.  Cooperation promotes a healthy environment of collaboration.  Although competition allows for success on an individual level, by completing the goal within a group, the amount of success achieved is just multipled, not subtracted.
