Competition is without a doubt a driving factor for success.  In nature, we see this success as survival of the fittest.  In our world now, we see competition as attempting to outperform others in several aspects.  Whether it be sports, our careers, or even something as trivial as passing someone on the highway in order to beat the red light, competition is key.  However, we as a society would not have thrived to become what we are without cooperation amongst ourselves.  Cooperation is paramount and far outweighs being a lone competitor in our world today.
From the dawn of mankind to society now, our existence relied on cooperation.  For example, trading is a form of such cooperation.  One person needs an item, such as a tool for farming, and is willing to cooperate/negotiate to get that tool in exchange for a good or service they can offer.  Here competition plays no part, but cooperation takes over as the only option.  Fast-forward to today's world and the same can be seen.  Business is often viewed as highly competitive; however, behind every successful business is negotiation.  Negotiation of course is a form of cooperation.  Each side cooperates and agrees to give something they possess in order to reach their goal.  A more down-to-earth example could be seen in two people looking for a place to live.  The rent could be a price neither can afford, but both can agree they do not need as much space or need to live alone.  By cooperating, they can agree to split the price of the rent and both end up achieving what they want:  a place to live at a price they can afford.
Of course competition also plays a key factor in our lives.  We often compete in academic courses, job interviews, promotions, a better price on an item we want to sell, etc.  This is only a natural instinct.  We have evolved beyond that, which separates us from the rest of nature.  Others may argue that you should always try to outcompete someone to get what you want, but what use is that in all or nothing situations?  Say you wish to purchase a car that you see as overpriced and refuse to come up from your offer.  The salesperson is likely to turn you away and instead sell the car to someone who was willing to negotiate and reach a fair price.  In such a scenario, you walk away with nothing except what you walked in with while the person who was willing to cooperate ultimately won.  This example can be extrapolated to all aspects of life.  Those who are willing to give up something in return for what they are seeking will more often than not achieve their goals in life.  Further, cooperation itself can often incorporate competition as seen with negotiations.  Both sides want what is best for them, the competitive nature, but are willing to settle for slightly less, the cooperative nature.
Ultimately, cooperation will carry you farther in life.  As a society, each person must be willing to give some in order to gain a lot.  From our personal lives at home to our careers, cooperation is imperative.  Sometimes being competitive is necessary, but being too headstrong and unwilling to budge can result in a zero-sum game.  Cooperation is what has lead humanity to this point, and is what will carry it far into the future.
