     Images and impressions do not have too much of an effect on people. Within our current society, one might argue the opposite, but images and impressions are how people observe and manuver through the world. Images and impressions invoke feelings, promote thoughts, and influence decision making. It is these interpretations that allow people to make judgement calls when additional information is not available.
     Some advertisments do not say much about the products they intend to promote (perfume commercials particularly come to mind), but this is not a reasonable argument for why images do not have too much of an effect. The images selected were specifically to invoke specific feelings, which is the effect marketers intended. This same concept applies to commercialism in another facet. For example, some sports slogans invoke concepts of strength, pushing hard, and accomplishment. So too, could speeches, songs, and other forms of artwork invoke positive feelings. These are not "too much" of an impact. They are reminders that these effects mean that people are human; that they feel, connect, and relate to one another. 
     Some people believe that entertainers, politicians, and other public figures put on a charade because people judge them on their appearances rather than their abilities. When people need to make decisions based on limited judgement, it is only these public appearances people have on which to make decisions. Especially in areas of public office, or in support of where people spend their money for entertainment, people are more likely to support those whith whom they can relate. The only information the public has are these media portrayals of public figures. This limited information may be better than none at all, or perhaps equally dangerous, only information that is not easily accessible or understandable by those who need to make decisions. 
     People are social, and the way they interact is through images and impressions. Whether that is through advertisements, or through interpreting public appearances of politicians of entertainers, people make impressions of what they see, and use it for decision-making. It is how people interact and how people accomplish things, so these images and impressions do not have too much of an effect on people.
