In my fourth grade class, we performed a musical - Charlie Brown. I still remember the lyrics to the only song they let me sing (I wasn't cut out for the theater): "Happiness is finding a pencil". That wasn't the only line, but it's the one that stuck out for me as a fifth grader. The rest of the song represents the views of the different characters, each with their own example of happiness. I've always wondered whether their idea of happiness is one that's universal, one that we all experience, or whether each of us have our own version of happiness. In fact, happiness does not have a defined biological set of characteristics; no emotions do. This tells us that happiness is subjective, perhaps taught culturally, an intangible concept that exists only in our own heads. So, what makes people happy? There are generally two trains of thought (among philosophers, not psychologists): first, that focusing on yourself and your goals will make you the happiest, and second, that the best way to be happy is to focus on helping others. I argue that neither of these is fully true because the goal of neither of them is to be happy, rather, it is to live a fulfilling life. Certainly, some people will find fulfillment living for themselves, some for others, and the happiness that comes from fulfillment can be found along either path. Yet happiness will also be found in other places - for instance, in finding a pencil.

People have different motivations in life. I became aware of this sometime in college, when I realized that most people seemed to be mostly interested in passing their own classes and less interested in working as a group to help everyone pass. I even asked a friend about it, and they told me that of course everyone was trying to reach their own goals because that's how people work. Clearly I was a bit confused, because that's not how many people I've met have seen the world. Here we both were, stuck in our own ideas of how to live life, not even noticing that there could be another option. Were either of us happy? No, in fact we both suffered from chronic depression. Yet all around us, people living their lives following both our mindsets were doing just fine. A prescriptivist approach to happiness - one that prescribes a method for achieving happiness - will never work because we are all different. We all have different goals. We all experience happiness for different reasons. And that's not a bad thing - I'd argue it's a very good one. 

Biologists and ecologsits argue that a diversity of lifeforms is essential to to evolution and advancement of a system. For instance, having plants with all sorts of different leaves means that they are able to exist almost everywhere, and therefore, are able to provide the foundation of life as the primary producers on every corner of the globe. If plants only grew a certain way, life on Earth would be very different. The same can also be said of a society - having a mix of people who look out for their own interests and those who look out for the group is essential. I would argue that we have evolved, either socially or biologically, to create a world in which both exist because societies and populations with a diversity of motivations are more likely to succeed. And what is the best way to encourage motivations? Happiness. We give ourselves happiness on the route to our own goals, not because that's what makes everyone happy, but because it's what makes us happy.

So, if you're trying to be happy, what should you do? Should you focus on your own personal grown or help society? I'd argue, you're asking the wrong question. Instead, see if you can figure out what makes you happy. Do that, and happiness will follow.

Of course, you may be only trying to be happy - that's your only goal. It's not a very good goal, but it's what you've got. In that case, I'd recommend sticking to your personal goals. In fact, by deciding that your goal is to be happy, you've already decided that you care more about your personal goals than helping others, and that's not a bad thing. You'll also find more satisfaction: it's much easier to meet your own goals than save the world. You have a lot more control over it.
