Materialism is something that just exists at the core of humanity and human expression. The fact of the matter is that the first human found something he wanted to keep that made  them feel better or have something to make something easier and from there the idea of ownership and materials to improve upon our lives was cemented. But it does not stop there of course. As we came together to form villages and groups it was clear that other people would want what others have and want things themselves and emotion cause materialism to go further and become more deeply ingrained within human idealism.

So the question is is this an issue, should we all forsake any kind of materialistic idea and cast off our wants. It is hard to say because there are definetely times where people take it to far and they care too much about things there are also times where someone looks to these small things as simple pleasures. The fact of the matter is that like anything in this life if taken too far and abused than it becomes toxic to ones life extremely quickly. Zoning in on material goods and wants like this in small amounts is perfectly okay.

But let us say that we should be criticized that we should change things completely and that society is too far gone with its material wants. How do we as a society go about fixing that or do we just shame and criticize though that we feel are part of the issue. Well we could become more community based less about what we have or we want and more about what can benefit the many. Look to become more tight knit and together. Though then the question is posed how does the individual go to make themselves happy and feel better it is hard to tell them they are in a good position cause everyone is since they cannout see it themselves.

The fact of the matter is is that the current state of the world got this way through thousands of years of natural forming. We cannot so simply have people forsake the things that society built. We can criticize and say this is wrong and we can all nod in agreement but it is not likely to change any time soon. Life is and has always been about being happy and if caring about some material goods helps with that then why is that so wrong?
