     To achieve happiness is what everyone in their life just wishes to achieve. Actually achieving it is a different story and there are many elements to what makes someone happy or not. It seems very simple: do and find something that makes you happy. For one instance, the definition of happiness varies from person to person. Due to this, the complicated question of whether or no someone would be more likely to be happy focusing on their own personal goals or on the happiness of others, is harder to answer. 
    People are more likely to be happy when they focus on their own personal goals. It is easier said than done to be happy when others are happy. It is natural for people to compare themselves to others, because of this negative feelings such as insecurity can arise which ultimately make for an unhappy person. Due to this, people will perpetuate unhappiness unto others if they are also unhappy themselves. By first focusing on one's self and being self sufficient, only then can you help others as well. When you are happy, you are more likely to be in a better state of mind to also help others by spreading positivity. 
    However, people will argue that focusing on their personal goals will make people selfish and ignore the happiness of others. This is attributed to the notion that humans are naturally selfish and do not desire to help others. The reason why these counters are merely just "what ifs" and anxious questions is because it is founded on the principle that humans are incapable of being caring while also taking care of themselves. It is not a fact at all. Most often, people are happy as long as they arent being hurt themselves. If everyone decides to focus on themselves, to make themselves better, the less reason they have for being negative all the time. Happiness goes along way. How can you help others if you can'thelp yourself? In conclusion, happiness can be argued as something not stagnant or static. It is a state, not permanent. In fact, it comes and goes. What people should strive to achieve is actually try to be happy most of the time while causing as little harm they can to others and the world as much as possible. 



