What is happiness? Is it something tangeable or an individual concept? Does it depend on the environment that surrounds an individual, or does the individual's happiness depend on specific actions someone else does for them?


After seeing many perspectives of people in my familial circle, specifically females that believe that their life goals should be to make their partners and children as comfortable as they can, taking care of them, even if that means sacrificing their personal goals and aspirations in life; I realized that to achieve happiness one has to look at what makes you personally happy. It might be true that doing something nice for someone else, helping those in need, or volunteering in a social cause to help others, brings a sense of personal satisfaction and that a person also knows that other people had benefit from that. However, to truly enjoy doing something for others, a person needs to initially have a sense of emotional contentment to do those things for others. 

Somenone cannot make others happy by helping them improve their lifes, if they do not feel that they have achieve some type of well being, first by achieving some of their life's dreams. It would not matter how many people someone helps along the way, if this person cannot find a middle ground to achieve what they consider happiness to be for them. Only after that, might a person enjoy the outcome of others' happiness, because it provides a view of what is happiness from both sides. 

Yet, some people think that by helping others achieve happiness that is what makes them happy as well. Perhaps, they are actually experiencing a sensation of happiness through someone else's life achievements? Like some form of emotional voyeurism? And that is why some people are always volunteering for social causes, or doing favors for others?
Maybe they get a reward every time someone thanks them, and that makes them happy?

I believe one first have to achieve your own goals, find your own happiness. And them apply that to help others find theirs.







