Materialism is a really big deal to alot of people because we aquire many different things in our lifetime. In life materialism is aquiring items from family and even friends. We as a society fall under different areas and materialism can turn into hoarding if we are not able to control ourselves with aquiring of too many things. I believe collections are a sort of materialism. From our very birth until death we aquire lots of material possessions throughout life and it ends up defining Us if we let it. We always have to be honest with ourselves and our situations involving materialism.
This world is full of materialism and we as a society have to keep ourselves in check with our habits. The world is all  about materialism everyone has to have the biggest, the best, or the most stuff we can. If we are able to get more stuff no one can ever have enough it seems like. We are driven to go after and aquire more and more stuff all the time. I think it is almost in peoples genes to want the most material things we can get our hands on because more is always better right? Our country is based alot off of materialism and our own self concious on if we have more we are worth more. 
Today in society it is who we are, but we need to get away from materialism ways because it will end up being what takes us down. Materialism is not what our country was founded on, but it seems as though thats where we keep heading. We have to change our ways of thinking to get away from the materialism way. One day as a society we will turn away from materialism, but I think it is a way to keep our deceased family members alive by having their things with us. I believe if we were able to keep our loved ones around materialistic items would be lessened. We will always need parts for projects, automotive industry, and military. I am happy to have been a part of the United States military and thankful for that time. I am happy to be a part of our materialism era. Our country will continue to thrive on materialism and as long as we are able to make a profit we can always count on materialism. Materialism has just become a way of life and helps us.
