   In general, people tend to be more happy overall if they focus on their personal goals rather than the happiness of others.  Some people may be able to be happy while focusing on others, such as volunteering or community service work.  While you can do both, you must strike a balance and still maintain what makes us happy individually.  
   If we spend all of our time and money making other people happy, we will be unable to do the things or buy the things that we need in our lives to keep ourselves happy.  One example is if we constantly volunteer our time and do not work for money, we will struggle to pay our bills.  How can someone be happy if they are unable to pay their rent and evicted to live on the streets?  No amount of volunteering or worrying about everyone else's happiness will fix that problem!  Another example is that if we worry about others but cannot meet our own basic needs such as food, self care, etc... Going to be hungry will not be made better by making other people happy!  We must be able to meet our own needs, which is done by worrying about our own happiness.  
   People often say that money cannot buy happiness.  That does tend to be true.  It has been shown many times, even the most famous wealthy people can be unhappy.  We see celebrities such as Robin Williams who struggle with depression and commit suicide.  Not only was he wealthy and famous, but he also made other people happy with his comedy and actor roles.  He still was not happy within himself.  We have seen many other celebrities and famous individuals fall to drug addition, overdose, suicide and other harmful behaviors due to unhappiness.  
   While money cannot buy us happiness, money can make our lives more comfortable.  By striving to meet your goals, you will in turn make your life more comfortable and happier!  Meeting your goals will bring you more money, which will in turn give you more opportunities to enjoy the things in life that make you happy.  Striving to reach your goals and make more money will also give you more opportunities to help others!  If we are more well off in our financial life, we have more opportunity to donate money, volunteer our time and give to others.  
   While helping others may bring us happiness, again we must strike a balance.  It does make you feel good about yourself when you are able to help someone else, bring someone else happiness or do something to make someone's life better!  Doing things to help others also makes the world a better place and is something that everyone should practice.  Imagine how much nicer the entire world would be if everyone would do things to help improve other's lives and humanity overall. With that said, we are unable to make others happy if we are not happy ourselves!  Maintaining that balance is a win win for everyone!  It helps to keep us happy as individually but also keeps us happy by being able to help others as well.  
