I believe that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. We see it all around us everyday, from flashy commercials to attention grabbing tweets from politicians and media personalities. It is evident with how much firms put into their advertising budgets. The product does not need to be good, just need to make people think that it is desireable. If a social media star promotes a product, it will often sell out in hours. The product itself may not be good, but the prestige of have the same product as your favorite celebrity overwhelms the actual utility of the product. Now, packaging and presentation are important factors and can show how much effort a company is putting into it's products. While that is true, the advertisements and idea behing this presentation should meet with reality and the product inside this flashy packaging all too often does not meet the same standard. 
Product endorsements and selling is one thing, but basing our beliefs and putting our faith behind fake and disingenuous people is much more of a problem. Many politicians, now and before, just say what they think people want to hear. They create this persona of a man/woman for the people, but all too often are in it for their own self-interests. Just recall a recent president who would also talk about how he is for the little guy and against corrupt businesses like Amazon who get away with paying no taxes. People cheared and supported this, because we know that some large companies take advantage of lax tax rules. This person is elected, and does anything change for these large companies? You would think that one of the first agendas would be to change rules so that companies cannot do this, and to institute things that would help the working man. Sadly, the opposite took place. No minimun corporate tax rate was instituted, instead the corporate income tax was lowered to an all-time low level. Another agenda that was pushed was to get rid of the payroll tax. This is the tax that funds social security and some other programs. This is the tax that is the number one revenue source that this country receives from business. Both businesses and citizens pay payroll tax, but income tax is a larger portion of what citizens pay while payroll tax is the larger portion of what businesses pay. But, it's all about how you frame it. Yell that you want to get rid of payroll tax and most people just think of taxes getting taken out of their paycheck, "great less taxes for us!" In reality, it just means businesses are paying much less. Social security still needs to be funded, and most likely that would be funded by either cutting other beneficial programs or by increasing individual income tax. Yes, it's important to vote for people that are voicing the same concerns that you are. It is important to have a good speaker and someone who may be able to influence others. It is just so much more important that we hold these people to the ideas that we elected them for. It is important that we know the true influence behind their motivations and plans.
It is the same with news stations. Every time I turn on a cable news network it seems whatever they are covering is the worst thing in the world. There seems to be so much fake drama that is meant to grab people's interest, rather than inform the public of what is going on in the country and world. Also, certain news casters just push out whatever will make them popular or controversial. They do this for the ratings and the money, not necessarily because they believe what they are saying. We have seen Fox News pushing out information about vaccine hesitancy, and how people shouldn't get vaccinated. Many of them do this while being vaccinated themselves. It is not that they truly believe this, but they truly believe that is what their audience wants to hear. You see the same on the other side as well. News casters acting outraged because a controversial statement someone made, possibly sexist. But, then their brother is in trouble and I am going to threaten everyone that is accusing them. There is just too much fake outrage in the news nowadays and trying to package something into entertainment to make it flashy and exciting for investors. The better idea would be to let people in the country know what is going on in an unbiased way.
The truth shouldn't be hidden or hard to find. It should be out in the open for everyone to see and know. That isn't the case nowadays. Their seem to be different "truths" out there, but in the end their is only one truth or fact. Two differentiating "facts" can't be true about the same thing. We shouldn't have to peal away layers of pretty packaging to get to an ugly product. We need to have a better idea of what we are getting ourselves into. But until we all start demanding these things and holding companies, organizations, and people accountable then we will be stuck where we are. No matter what side we are on, we must hold everyone equally accountable to these things. A truth should be a truth that everyone knows, not an opinion on a topic. Everything would be much more simple if we could judge a book by it's cover. 
