  Competition is a much lauded value in the our society. It can be seen in many faucets of modern life, from the popularity of professional sports to the large viewership of contest reality shows. But an often forgotten virtue of the human experience is cooperation. It is through coorperation that people derive the most sucess for themselves and our society as a whole.

  The first coopertive experience any human has is with their caregivers ain the years between birth and adulthood. Family members are not competitors but cooperators in their familial life. It can indeed be said that the very fabric of the family unit is stiched together through cooperation. The most basic apsect of this can be seen in a two parent household; someone must care of the children while another member works outside the home for pay to afford food, clothing, and other needs for the family. In that way you could say that cooperation is the very foundation of society itself. It is literally the bedrock where families are built.

 Some people may argue that competition yeilds more prosperous results than cooperation. While it is true that competition often produces novel outcomes, this argument fails to assess the real cost that competition always takes as a toll. Competitive sports yield competant athletes and large scale entertainment. But, the strain the athletes physically bare to preform at such a high levels most often leave them in constant physical suffering after their careers have finished. The ferocious rivalry between different teams often leads their spectators to hate and demonizing the other team. This hatred can even erupt into violence, as we have seen with many riots after a particular team wins or loses a championship. These detriments clearly exact a cost on society, one that is not seen in hobbies of a more collaborative nature.

 While there will always be competition in the world, there has always been cooperation at the very core of human society. It is what first nurtures us as children and protects us into aduthood. The greatest and often most important relationships in our lives are based on mutual coorperation. Cooperation does not exact the heavy cost that competition always demands. Cooperation is clearly a more successful endeavor to individual people and in our shared society at large.     



