In our society images and impressions have far too much of an effect on people.  We see it all around us.  Our media and society is overflowing with it.  A quick look at children's programming will reveal a plethora of slick and exaggerated advertising.  Toys are made to look like they move and interact with the child when, in fact, they do not.  Sugar cereals and drinks are made to look "fun" when of course our national obesity problem is the opposite of fun.  Colorful and alluring candy and soda are almost always front and center as we check out at the store.  Of course, advertising is designed to motivate people to purchase their product.  We are a capitalist society and we have long accepted what goes along with that.  But, the manipulation of our youth and those with lower critical thinking skills is a real problem.  It has really gotten out of hand in our society.  When did we start to just blindly accept these untruths?

We also see this quite clearly in our public figures including politicians.  We demand that they present themselves in a certain way.  NO ONE will get elected in this country if they are an atheist - so politicians present themselves as church goers even if they really aren't.  They appear virtuous and honest but often times fall far short of this goal.  Why do we care so much how people appear superficially?  The great leaders of the past such as FDR and Churchill were far from pious and they were amazing and strong leaders.  Why is it so important in America that our leaders are whitewashed of all sins?  Don't we realize that the virtuous rarely make good leaders?     

Which brings me to the real point - where is the substance?  Where is the reality?  We have "reality" shows a plenty that have nothing to do with reality.  We have leaders that hide who they really are.  What are we teaching our children?  That image is more important than character?  This is a terrible precendent but unfortunately I don't see it easing up anytime soon.  We are inundated, especially since the dawn of social media, by fakeness.  Our public figures airbrushed of all imperfections.   How can we, mere mortals, possible measure up to that ideal?  I believe it has ushered in an era of depression & anxiety in America and taken us further away from our core values.  One ray of hope is the company Dove.  I have noticed that instead of emaciated models they actually use normal looking models that look like the rest of us.  There is hope I beleive.  It is my sincere wish that we will wake up soon and change our ways before it is too late.   
