     People often gain their victories, accomplishments and successes through either competing against others or by working with others. I believe the best way to achieve your accomplishments and succeed is through working together, by cooperating towards a common goal or interest. 
     Cooperation and teamwork provide more achievements and increase the likelihood of becoming more successful and achieving greater accomplishments. Working together provides people with important skills that are necessary in life.  We all have to work and interact with eachother throughout our lives, so learning to cooperate with others gives us the skills to interact successfully.  Cooperating teaches you to interact with diverse people. It's easier to talk to others and persuade them to agree with you and even give in to your requests. Teamwork is an important part of life.
     Some people believe it's better to be competitive with others to achieve your goals. They believe you can only count on yourself to succeed.  While competing has it's good points, I have to disagree that it's the most effective way of achieving success. You gain more necessary and important life skills by cooperating as a team than by competing. Your born having yourself to contend with, whereas you have to learn and adapt to cooperating with others and being successful at it.  It seems that people that use cooperation are more successful, such as athletes and other group sports.  Also, people are social creatures and benefit from interacting with  others and will easily make friends if they succeed at cooperating.
     I believe people are more successful and achieve more by cooperating versus competing because of the many skills they gain from cooperating.  Politicians, teachers and most work environments only work well if there is a great deal of cooperating.  There's a time and place for competing, in races and sports, once you've developed the necessary skills gained from cooperation. Cooperation gives you much needed people skills. Not to mention cooperating, doing your share and helping eachother feels good, needed and part of something and who doesn't like those feelings?
