Is socity more materialistic than ever before?  Is our obsession with stuff leaving us less fulfilled?  Aquiring goods has always brought humans something positive.  Having a shelter for your family, nutritious food to feed your young, and warm clothes were vital to our ancestors.  However, many of us continue to crave more and more stuff long after our basic needs for survival have been met.  Unfortunately, this focus on unecessary materialistic things has robbed us of the ability to truly enjoy life.

Humans need to learn to live in the moment again and value experiences over posessions.  The drive to constantly aquire more stuff is not only bad for our planet, filling landfills and using up resources unecessarly, but it distracts us from the true value of being alive.  Enjoying our relationships, obtaining new knowledge, and appreciating the natural beauty of our world brings far more meaning to life than stuff does.  Many people may argue that luxury items, especially, bring them great pleasure.  I believe that pleasure is short lived and actually leaves the individual feeling emptier once that initial thrill wears off.  Being wealthy and having alot of stuff is no guarantee of happiness, as evidenced by countless celebrities in the news.  The stories of divorce, abuse, depression, and overall misery are endless.  While those living a simple life are documented to be happier and emotionally healthier people.  Furthermore, they influence the happiness and health of those around them.  What makes their lives "simple"?  It is a focus on their families, hobbies, and even their work rather than a desire for a bigger house or a newer car.

The path to a lasting pleasure is to focus on non-materialistic joys.  Modern society has a long way to go to recover from it's unfortunate addiction to materialism.  They say you can't take it (stuff) with you when you die.  That is certainly true, but I'm calling for us to focus on what matters in life rather than death.  Find the experiences, people, and pleasures that bring you deep and meaningful joy.  These will last you a lifetime.
