     Many people argue about which is better: working as a team or working as competition for one another. I believe that while there is benefits from both of these things, one is far more important than the other. Teamwork. Teamwork is the one thing that can get almost anything done. Teaching one another to work together to accomplish a goal has countless benifits that dont typically come from anything else.Thats how we learn to respect others and to appreciate everyones unique talents and individual abilities.
     Working alone and constantly being in competition can be limiting. You are then limited to your own strenghths, your own skills. One person can only accomplish so much by themselves because no one person can do everything. When you work as a team you not only have your own abilities to work with, but you have access to multiple new sets of skills to use collectively to acheive your goal.
     I think that competing can have positive benefits for people and accomplish great things also. It gives people a chance to get better at the task and teaches them how to problem solve and think on their own. It also could give others motivation and confidence in themselves. However, it has also been known to produce arrogance and sometimes give a person a sense that they're better than others.That isn't a very attractive personality trait and it doesn't usually produce very many good friends.
     While many good things come from competition, the act of teamwork still seems to me to be the most productive options. For example, lets say you were tasked with building a house. You only know how to build the walls. Another person only knows how to build a roof. Another does windows, another plumbing. If you all worked serperately and competed to see who was done fastest, would taeke much longer because you would be required to learn all the additional parts that you don't have proper knowledge of. If you were to all use teamwork, it would only take a fraction of the time.
     I am a firm believer in teamwork. It is important in my day to day life because I believe if people would just work together as a team more often so much could be accomplished.  Thats how we help one another and put good into the world. Everyone contributing their part and being awarded equally. Acknowledging that each individual had some small part in the result and that each part is just as important as the next. 
