Materialism is the bane of human existence. In modern society, materialism is practically inescapable. We are bombarded with messages meant to feed our most base materialistic impulses. Capitalism thrives on these materialistic impulses. Entire industries live and die by the materialistic drive of the consuming public. That's what it comes down to: we are a society of consumers. Unless we consume, we are hardly members of society at all.

But what is the problem of this drive to consume? Our materialism has both tangible and nontangible drawbacks. On the nontangible side, materialism is counter to spirituality. It is hard to empty our minds to let the spirit enter when we are surrounded by stuff. Likewise, materialism is counter to creativity. It is hard to feel inventive when we have all the stuff we could ever need. Materialism becomes the end goal. As the saying goes, he who dies with the most toys wins. Our materialistic drive is never fully quenched or satisfied, and it feeds itself in an endless, destructive cycle.

Of course, in addition to destroying the human spirit, our materialism also threatens to destroy both our individual homes and our shared home, planet Earth. Surely everyone has seen episodes of reality TV that shine a light on the dirty secret of materialism taken to its nearly logical conclusion: hoarding oneself out of one's own home. It's no coincidence that these shows bring in a series of professionals to deal with the problem innate in materialism, because materialism naturally creates its own industries: professional organizers who help us keep our mountains of stuff organized, if not in check; and psychologists who specialize in obsessive hoarding behavior, who try to ferret out its root cause in order to 'cure' it. This reveals the true nature of materialism as a disease.

And then there is the destruction to the planet. Our shared home is drowning in the detritus of human materialism. Landfills grow higher than Everest, and marine animals swim in oceans of deteriorating but never disappearing petroleum products. And all the while, industries continue to promote this most destructive of human behaviors. Unless we are spending, we are not alive. If we cannot afford Gucci and Prada and Mercedes, then we have endless iterations of dollar stores to feed our materialistic impulse. Even a minimum wage worker can fill up baskets of this stuff to cart back to and fill his humble home. Even the homeless are not immune to the problem, as they gather 'civilized' society's discards and amass their own hordes transported on shopping carts from bridge underpass to tent city. And those abandoned underpasses and tent cities, covered in layers of litter, stand as witness to the all-pervasive nature of human materialism.

Still, should people born and bred to consume, to feed the retail sector and fulfill the capitalist promise, be blamed for being materialistic? When an epidemic threatened to collapse society, what was the response of government? Why of course, send the public money to stimulate spending, because the beast called materialism must always be fed. And what happens to those members of society who turn their backs on capitalism? They are ostracized, criticized for failing to sport the latest fashions, for failing to replace last year's model -- be it a sneaker, a TV set, or a car -- for this year's bigger, 'better,' and shinier new thing. No, society's individual members are fundamentally blameless victims of something bigger and more insidious than any single person. Perhaps the future holds an answer, perhaps our own technology can save us, replacing stuff with digital equivalents that occupy no space except in our cluttered minds. However, is that truly a cure?
