In my opinion images and impressions have too much of an effect on people.   It appears in today's society surface level attributes that lack any depth seem to count for far more than what is underneath the surface in regards to a person or an issue.  There appear to be certain reasons and/or drivers as to why this may be the case.  This esssay will seek to explore and explain these reasons and how this can be imporved upon resulting in a better society.

In today's society social media and the 24/7 news cycle have created an environment where news is presented and has a very short shelf life.  It burns out very quickly and it is on to the next story.  The same holds true with social media where business, policitial, societal and social issues are debated intensely and burn out very quickly with no resolution.  Because of this images and impressions have far too much of an effect on people and the real issues that have depth are never realized.  People do not scratch beneath the surface to vet issues, get the facts and put together an objective arguement.  Instead it is subjective.  In the political arena, for example, politicians literally capitalize on this focusing on high level images and impressions and relying on the fact that news burns out quickly and people will not scratch beneath the surface.  As a result images and impressions have far to much of an effect on people and result in a society that is misinformed or worst yet, uninformed.

What can be done about this?  First people need to take responsibility for how they consume news, advertising and the like.  They need to curious and question images and impressions and question companies and politicians claims and motives.  This will result in more fact based knowledge and to be better informed.  The perpetrators also need to take responsiblity as well.  They need to be responsible and present claims and views that are objective and have depth.  Assuming people are stupid and scamming the masses is no way to conduct business or politics.  The very items that are being used to capitalize on abusing images and impressions (social media, etc.) can be used as at tool to help solve the problem by being used as a platform for facts instead of self-indulgence.  Social media, for example, can be used as an asset and not a liability.

In today's society do images and impressions have oo much of an effect on people?  Yes.  However, if everyone chooses to take personal responsiblity we can change this from relying on surface level knowledge to possesing fact based data that allows for better judgements and decision making and allows society to function in a truthful manner that is more productive.   As a result of this a better society can be achieved with less personal bias and more harmony resulting in a more productive society that does more with less.  There is hope to achieve this but it will take significant work and effort to strip people of their habits and bias.
