Success is most easily obtained in our society when one cooperates with others instead of competing with them. This is true for a number of reasons. For one thing, by cooperating with others to achieve a goal or complete a task, you are doing more than just working on that one particular thing. By engaging with others in a shared goal, you are also expanding or enhancing your social network, which could assist you in your future endeavors. By having others that you've cooperated with before on your side, you will have someone to call upon when future challenges arise, so cooperation is quite helpful in that way. Compare that to competition, which will be more likely to sour social relationships with others and will likely make it more difficult to call upon those other people in the future when they are needed.

Another reason cooperation is more valuable than competition is that it helps to create a more welcoming environment for everyone, even those not involved in the particular goal or task at hand. If you are cooperating with someone else, you are signaling to the wider group that you are willing to work with others to solve problems. This makes it easier and more acceptable within the group to ask for help when problems arise. If you instead focus on competing with others when trying to complete tasks, you will foster an environment that is less welcoming and thus less hospitable to things generally deemed positive by human beings, like altruism and empathy. This will make society as a whole suffer, and it will also potentially harm your chances of completing the specific goal you're trying to achieve.

Taking a higher-level view, cooperation is important because it is baked into our DNA as human beings. Humans have survived and thrived for so long largely because of our willingness to cooperate with each other to achieve things. This has been the case since at least the first small bands of humans began wandering the planet in search of food and shelter. In contrast, when humans have focused on competing with each other for resources, social status, or whatever else, it has oftentimes led to very negative outcomes for everyone involved. One can look at the various wars of the 20th century to see some stark examples of how competition led to tremendous suffering.

Some might argue that competition will lead to more success, as shown in how businesses in capitalistic societies compete with one another and the end result is lower prices and better products. This is a good argument on its surface, but when you dig into it, you can see that it is off-base. For one thing, the competition that happens in the economic realm isn't the same as the kind of competition that happens between individual humans. Also, in capitalism, it is generally organizations that compete with other organizations to earn more revenue, and these organizations are comprised of groups of people cooperating to complete a shared goal. In other words, even in the cutthroat, highly competitive world of capitalism, cooperation is required to achieve goals.

Overall, when people work towards a goal, they are more interested in just getting that goal done and don't think too much about how it's done. It seems to me that in human societies, cooperation is the norm and is the basis for almost all of the things that we work toward. Competition leads to more strife, more anxiety, and more unhappiness, whereas cooperation generally leads to more positive results for everyone. It seems hard to argue that competing with others will result in a better outcome than working with other people to complete a common goal. Broadening your social network and creating a more welcoming and understanding environment wherein others can thrive, while simultaneously achieving the goal you set out to do, seems to be a much better outcome than potentially "winning" a competition with others while creating an environment of hostility and resentment.
