Wherever we go in life, we are surrounded by images. Aside from those that occur in nature, most of them are meant to influence us in some way or another. The image of a hamburger at the side of the road, larger than life and immaculate in the placement of its lettuce leaves, is meant to influence one to stop by their local McDonalds. The image of a smiling politician on the television is meant to impart the impression of a charming and likeable individual to his or her potential voters. None of the images we see is necessarily what it seems, and the person or group that puts it forward for consumption my have honorable or ill intentions. But are we, as a society and as individuals, influenced too much by these images? I posit that we are not. Rather I would posit that we are not--if certain criteria are met within our own thought processes.

It is very easy to look at the plethora of images and impressions presented for consumption and become frightened. We are constantly bombarded from all angles with people that want things from us. They want to influence what we do, just as we ourselves do. With that desire comes an enormous potential for abuse. There are no rigid codes that hold individuals and groups wishing to influence one another to being truthful or indeed even 'nice.' Compounding that potential is the ease with which a person may Be influenced. A competent individual can manipulate with a slight moue of the lips within interpersonal interactions, and corporations throw the weight of millions of dollars into finding out the best ways to tug on their 'victims' purse strings. It's power. It's potential. It's the root of some of the worst interactions that can be had, from heartbreak to financial ruin to war.

It's also basic! This ability to influence one another is at the very core of our existence as humans. We are social creatures and socialization is sharing and having a discourse, through word and deed, about what has been shared. If we removed our ability to be influenced--and easily--from ourselves, how would a mother interpret the cries of her baby, letting her know that it needs fed? Why would one ever bother to say to their companion, "How does that make you feel?" We ask because we care, we want to know, and we are affected by what the other individual feels. It's also basic to our survival. Our ability to be influenced tells us, "Boy, that fuzzy hamburger on top of the garbage can that smells of dead fish and is growing a bit of mold might not be the best choice for my evening meal if I can possibly avoid it."Extending that notion out, our ability to be easily influenced is what lets us take appropriate action in life threatening circumstances. If I hear a woman's voice screaming in panic, "My God, that wildebeast is charging," I know to move out of the way. I understand the hitch in her voice and interpret that this isn't a silly party game. What she is saying is urgently affecting her and I should respond immediately. Now, obviously, my examples are a little tongue in cheek, but the principles hold true!

Images and impressions have a great impact on us all, and can easily be used to ill intent, but removing our ability to be so thoroughly influenced is not the answer. It would endanger us at the very least, and strip the basic joys and sorrows that make life worth living from life. Therefore, we need to be able to understand our own responses to stimuli that are designed to prey on our baser instincts. I need to be able to slow down and take apart incoming images that are meant to influence me. I can reason to myself, "Boy, he sure chucked that baby under the chin in a swell way. Maybe he's a nice guy. Or maybe he wants me to think so for a reason." Just as with any powerful tool, one needs to be able to use it safely. My ability to be influenced is marvelous, but it is a double-edged sword! It just needs to be tempered with knowledge and reason. We are not too influence-able. We are precisely the right amount--with careful thought and consideration of the motives behind the things with which we interact.
