     I think that cooperation leads to more significant successes than competition, although a combination of the two is also a good formula for success. Success can be achieved faster and easier with cooperation because the participants can help and learn from each other in whatever subject matter is being explored. Cooperation allows for everyone to use information and resources that would not be available to all if competition was the main concept being embraced.  I think that the competition aspect should be kept between the participant and the accomplishment that they hope to achieve. 
      Competition can be helpful to push participants harder and fuel their resourcefullness and creativity, but I believe that those examples are most apt to be shorter term accomplishments. Less important successes like athletics, rely on competition to accomplish achievement. That is why they are referred to as competitions. Accomplishments in most areas are better served with cooperation than competing to achieve over others. Each individual person or entity can have a different personality that will have a large bearing on whether cooperation or competition will lead them to achieve more success and accomplish more, however overall, I think that within the vast world of personalities and preferences, that cooperation leads to more lasting accomplishments.
     It is clear that both concepts can lead to achievements and can help to accomplish many important advancements, but it is obviously easier to build on the knowledge and resources of many than to do the same with few.  I think it is a shame that there can't be more cooperation rather than competition in most areas. Drug companies could probably achieve so much more if there wasn't such a competitive nature in the industry, and they worked together to find solutions to the medical problems that they combat. Competition can be helpful, but it is cooperation that is necessary to drive significant accomplishment both now and in the future. Both cooperation and competition have powers to drive achievment. Maybe together in cooperation, is the optimum power, which means cooperation is the one most necessary. 
