We all would love to think that everything pictured is the truth. We all want things to work magic in our lives. We want simple products to transform all the negative things that we've been trying to change about ourselves, but what can really do that? Why must we try to search out quick fixes and magic products and put our faith in products and people? Maybe it's because we've been filled with false-advertisements, paid reviews about products and a false sense of hope in a human to fix our problems when we really can't find out the truth about someone or something until we have personally tried a product or interacted with the person. 

In today's world, you have to be popular. You have to look a certain way, have certain things and be friends with certain people to be somebody. Why is that? We only see people becoming successful when they seem to have all of those qualities. It shouldn't be that way. It isn't that way. The truth is, under all the perfectly posed pictures of people with lots of edits and items packaged all nice and neat, there really isn't as much shine and authenticity as you may think. No one promotes themselves or products on their bad days. A lot of makeup, polish and angling goes into making someone or something appear to be as "great" as it is, and that's hurting us in the long run.

When our lives and our childrens lives only see success as perfection, it can be discouraging. Because facts and stistics show that progress isn't linear. Meaning, no one climbs straight to the top of anything they're working for, there are learning curves involved that the every day people don't see. That supermodel may not be that tan in real life. That car probably has a horrible dent in the back that you can't see from a picture of the front. That product on the shelves promising you instant weightloss also has "with diet and excercise" written in small letters on the back label. That person in the media may be promising you great things when they have no desire to follow through. We, as everyday people feel less-than because we don't look that way and those products aren't helping us the way they said they would which poses questions like: is there something wrong with me? Am I failing? When it has nothing to do with you or your self-worth at all. No one or nothing is going to be the exact same as they advertise themselves to be. If companies and individuals really want to have a genuine relationship with their customers and followers, show the bad days. Show the messy. Show the truth. Stop the misleading. 
