You always hear, first impressions are extremely important, but is it possible that society has begun to place too much value in them?
In this essay, I will discuss the effects of first impressions on people and how they can affect our reasoning and logic. 

It's often said that a good first impression goes a long way, and nowhere is this more true than in television advertising. With only a few fleeting moments to catch your attention and simultaniously sell you on the potential benefits or values of their product, television advertising is full of flashy effects, bright designs, and clever scripting. All of this with the sole purpose of trying to entice potential buyers or consumers of their product or service. Another place where we see this sort of "dressing-up" is in political advertisements. Again, the focus of the message either being an endorsement for a candidate, with nothing but positive quotes and inspirational music, or a hit piece full of highly stylized messages filling our screens and ominous music blasting out of our speakers. In both of these cases, are the viewers even given enough information about the product or candidate to make an informed decision, or are they so polarized by the strong initial images and impressions of the advertisements that they've already made that judgement, regardless of the information, or lack thereof, shown? This is surely the case, with the average attention span decreasing as people become more accustomed to short feature videos and everything they could want at the tips of their fingers through platforms like Instagram Reels, Tiktoks, and Youtube Shorts. Of course there are still those users who will be intrigued by an advertisement, and then take the time to do a bit more digging into the actual product, service, or candidate being advertised. However, the amount of people willing to do this digging is surely the minority, as millions of people are tricked daily by eye catching phony Twitter headlines that can be disproven with something as simple as a quick Google search. 

In conclusion, the focus on highly styilized and action packed advertisements and other forms of media do play much too large of a role in how everyday people form their opinions. Without being presented with all of the facts about a product, or policies and history of a candidate, there is no way that one would be able to make an informed decision based on a 30 second television advertisement. However, the amount of people doing just that is extremely large, and the advertisers surely think that continuing to pay for the production of these videos, along with advertising space is a worthwhile investment to draw in additional consumers or voters.  

