Images and impressions strike at the heart of what it is to be human.  The way we process visual imagery is core to our everyday living experience.  As such, the effect of advertisements, colorful packaging, and what we see can easily impact people far too much.

Take for example going to the grocery store and looking at any snack aisle.  The packaging is colorful, bright, eye catching and meant to entice a person in subtletly.  It's almost a way of "hacking into the brain."  A consumer may not fully realize it at the time but their choice is greatly dictated on how the package is designed and how it catches the eye.  After all, the first thing we notice isn't the contents or wording but the overall look of the candy bar or cereal box.  

This same phenomenon is seen in advertisements for children's toy as well.  Who doesn't remember being a young child watching Saturday morning cartoons and seeing that shiny new model or action figure that you just had to have?  It is an appeal to the visual nature that is at our most essential core.  Little thought is paid to what the item is in any detail.

Furthermore, consider politicians and how much weight is placed on appearance versus result.  A recent example of this is our last president, Donald Trump.  He was a very outspoken person focused more on persona than on policy.  Yet people still followed him and praised him.  Despite his lack of ability and lack of accomplishing anything major he was still lauded as a huge success by half the country.

This can be extended to even before Donald Trump was a politician.  Previous to running for office he was a celebrity entertainer.  He had appeared on wrestling shows, Fox news shows, and even had his own television series.  Because of how often he was seen in the public eye he garnered considerable support and a considerable following.

He showed himself gilded in gold, his name plastered on every building, and on every business he operated.  People saw this and were enamored.  They did not dig any deeper into how many of his businesses failed, how much he was worth, or what he accomplished.  The visual image and the story told by him was enough to catapult him from a relatively obscure businessman to the most powerful man in the world.  A prime example of how images and impressions can have too large an effect on people, even when it comes to voting and matters of national importance.

Celebrities of all type evince this frequently from every type of media and background.  Look at Elon Musk and how he curates his public image.  Refined, sophisticated, trying to appear to be a leader and take away from the controversy related to work conditions at his SpaceX firm.  Or late night hosts such as Stephen Colbert who is always in a well fitted suit and presented in a clean cut manner.  Think to yourself just how often you change your opinion of someone on TV just because of how they look versus what they are saying.

All of these examples cement just how important visual information is and how it can change people's perceptions and have too much of an effect.  Some opponents might say that people are not that simple.  That the brain is complex and can't be reduced to such simplistic platitudes.

To an extent this is correct.  But it is a minor note and not a major note.  Yes, a person can be skeptical when they see a celebrity or entertainer.  They can look at a colorful package of chips then ask themselves more questions such as "What is in this?" or "Will this actually taste good?"  

But this takes away from the main point -- that the primary response, the most base and visceral response, comes from the first visual cue and every consideration that comes after that is secondary.  

If Donald Trump wasn't so brazen would people have ever voted for him?  If the bag of Takis wasn't bright purple would it ever have been noticed and purchased? If that celebrity talk show host wasn't clad in the highest fashion with gleaning white teeth would people care what he said?  Ultimately, the answer is a resounding no and thus it is easily and simply stated that images and impressions can and do have too much of an effect on people.






