The question I present to you is this: Do people achieve more success by cooperation or by competition.

In truth, there is evidence to support both means of success, as well as arguments against. Firstly, competition can bring out success in people by forcing them to outdo one another. When a company makes a product and another company wants to compete with them, they must create and release a similar product that outdoes it in at least one way. It could be cheaper in price, be of better quality, have more features, be more user friendly, and so on.

They do not even need to outsell their competitor to be a success. Simply competing may allow them to carve out their own niche by filling in a role that their competition failed to do. When viewed on a micro level and applied to the individual we find that this is also the case. When two or more runners race together, the desire to outdo one another propels them to do better than they would have had they raced solo. Even if they do not all come in first, we find that they achieve greater success by doing better than they would have otherwise if they were not competing at all.

Success does not have to be measured in simple terms of victory or defeat, as success is often more complex than that. This is the way that competition helps to push forward people to achieve greater victories and successes. By being driven to do better than someone else, be it a person, company, or idea, it gives the individual or entitiy something to both push against and to drive them forward.

This may all be true, however, cooperation is more productive in a complex world. While the rules of competition do indeed drive people forward as individuals, and they might force companies to try and one up each other to achieve their successes, when viewed through the lens of communities or nations, the idea no longer pans out.

For example, when nations compete against each other, they are more likely to experience slow economic growth and hardships than if they work together. Nations that cooperate with one another help each other to grow and achieve success by trading goods and services with one another, and offering protection to each other that allows them both to experience greater stabililty.

As I mentioned before, success does not have to be measured as simply winners and losers, as in a case like this, both countries succeed by growing and becoming more prosperous. Instead of using resources to compete with each other, the resources bolster one another, making them both stronger in the process.

This can be demonstrated by China after building relations with the United States in the 1970s. They began trade with the US and other nations, and cooperating with them, and experienced great growth. On the opposite side of the scale, we can look to modern day North Korea or Russia, which have been cut off from the outside world, and experience no cooperation and no trade, and as a result, have declining economies which - at best - simply do not experience growth.

Another example of competition versus cooperation can be seen during the Space Race era. While competition did promote both the USA and the USSR to launch their individual missions into space, the real scientific progress came about when the USA and Russia worked together to create the International Space Station which allowed scientists from the two countries to work together to experiment and learn about the affects of space, which would not have been easily done before if the two countries were trying to compete with each other.

This is because competition between countries and groups breeds hostility, which causes them to fight one another and sabotage each other. The countries cannot make progress as quickly if they are constantly dealing with attacks and setbacks from one another. But by working together - without fear of reprisal - they can achieve gains they would not have been able to otherwise, or as quickly.

Of course, opponents would still say "Wait, but the Space Race was a competition as you said, and it did produce results!", of which I agree. But these same results could have beein achieved if countries had worked together, and the gains and knowledge would have been shared across the world instead of being split between the East and the West. By competing in such a way, each side may have learned some things, but what the other side learned was unavaliable to them, which caused each side to have a less complete picture than if they had worked together. This is why cooperation is key.

In closing, we can see that while there are arguments and benefits to both competition and cooperation, and various measures of success, only through cooperation can greater, lasting success be achieved.
