Success is achieved through many means, which to me combine both competition and cooperation. While most high achieving people are highly competitive, it is most often the caase that they cannot achieve ultimate success without cooperation and contribution of others.

In sports, I have found that successful teams must have an "alpha" - someone who is truly highly competitive and talented. Examples of these individuals include people like Michael Jordan, LeBron James, and Tom Brady - all highly talented and remarkably competitive. However, as you look back at their careers, it is obvious that their talent and competitive nature is not enough - they must have pieces around them that complement their abilities while the superstar cooperates with coach and team to accomplish their objectives.

An example of this is Michael Jordan. His first several seasons were statistically very successful, including a playoff game versus the Boston Celtics where he exceeded 60 points. However, while statistically excellent, his team was not ultimately able to compete for and win an NBA championship because he was not surrounded by talent that could compliement him. That changed significantly when the team surrounded him with pieces (BJ Armstrong ball handling, Horace Grant rebounding, John Paxson shooting, Bill Cartright bolstering the middle, and Scottie Pippen a second star along with other strategic pieces) came together as cooperative pieces that meshed together excellently. This resulted in three straight championships, before Mr. Jordan stepped away for a short period. Upon his return, he again combined his remarkable competitiveness with an understanding that he needed to be surrounded by the contribution and cooperation of others, and with the contributions from the likes of Pippen, Dennis Rodman, Steve Kerr and others, again won three straight championships.

James is another example of this - his talent is unquestioned, winning Rookie of the Year, being a multi-year All-Star, and taking his team to the NBA finals. However, it was not until he went to the Miami Heat and joined a team that had talented players like Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh that his competitive talent met with the cooperation of those he played with that he was ultimately able to achieve the ultimate success of back-to-back championships. What is more, what he learned from that period transferred into other periods with other teams, where he matched his competitive talent with cooperative nature to win championships with both teh Cleveland Cavaliers and Los Angeles Lakers.

And finally Tom Brady has illustrated that his competitive nature has effectively willed many of his teams to NFL Champioinships, having won a total of 7. That said, while his competitive tenacity has carried him and his teams a long way, it is also true that he has needed the compliment of offensive pieces and defensive excellence to combine for ultimate success. This has been true toward the end of his time with the Partiots where the team began to falter (see the 2019 season as an example) without the cooperative complimentary pieces needed to achieve ultimate success transferred to the Buccaneers one year later where he injected his competitive tenacity and performance excellence into a team that had the offensive and defensive talent to cooperatively blend together for his most recent Super Bowl victory.

Analyzing their end result, it is obvious to me that success is not one factor or the other - it is instead a necessary combination of a great talent/leader with the cooperation of strategic contributions from many others who are aligned toward an important objective. Success will be achieved by the excellence of a competitive leader, with the acceptance from them and those around to cooperatively build a plan an accomplish the objective.
