Do I think that images and impressions have too much of an influence over the general public? Yes, I do feel that the majority of images we see today are geared with the sole purpose of triggering emotion in order to get the viewer to comply with whatever message the advertiser wants the viewer to believe, and therefore, act on that belief.

I feel that you can generally see this just by looking at social media. Certain platforms, such as Instagram, have a vast array of photos posted by peple known as "Influencers," who are only there for the specific purpose of "influencing" the viewer to agree with their content. Most of this content is to deliberately lead the viewer to purchase something. Whethere it be a product or service, the Instagram platform has made it extremly easy for the viewer to just"swipe up" to buy the item right on the platform. Viewers do not even have to leave their phone, or even leave the Instagram platform at all. The purchase is literally made right there on Instagram. Very easy and very convenient is what Instagram and Influencers will have everyone believe. However, most know that it is really just a ploy to get viewers to never leave the platfom, and as a result, the viewer will keep spending money.

Of course, advertisers, marketers, Influencers, and content creators will never admit to exploiting viewers. Most content creators will respond by saying they are simply posting content that they know their viewers want to see. That no one is getting hurt in the process, and that they are not forcing anyone to view their conent, or purchase their content. While this may be true, advrtisers have to admit that advertisng has become more and more aggressive over the last 20 years since the evolution of the Internet. If that were not true, there would not be millions of people adding ad blockers to their Internet browers to block such blatant, in-your-face, marketing tactics. 

While I think it is fine to advertise and promote legitamite products and services to the public. I think advertisers and content creators must start to take into consideration the long term effects of their current strategies to get people to purchase. If they continue at this rate, people will just simply begin to get weary and warped from all the advertising and eventually tune out. Or they will just simply walk away from platforms, such as Instagram, since they know they will only be treated like cash cows that Influencers want to milk for every last dime. 
