Many people have probably thought before about the question of whether happiness comes from focusing on one's own personal goals or if happiness comes from focusing on making others happy. 

In this essay I hope to show that happiness comes from focusing on one's own personal goals more so than the happiness that can be found by making other people happy. A person will find more happiness focusing on their own personal goals rather than focusing on making others happy due to many factors and decisions made an autonomous individuals.

As humans we have only ourselves to answer to, so making oneself happy should be the ultimate goal in one's life. In order to fulfill that goal one must do things that make themselves happy before all else. This can be things as simple as only eating what one thinks tastes good to them, or participating in hobbies that one personally finds fulfilling and enjoyable, not eating or doing things one does not actually enjoy. 

A big factor to someone's happiness is their career, and one must focus on acheieving within their career to reach happiness. People will do whatever they need to do while keeping happy to achieve this goal, they will not stand to be miserable or stuck in a dead end job if they can help it. A person doesn't stay in a job otherwise and instead finds a new job or goes back to school to study so that they can begin a new career.

Another factor people focus on is their relationships, both with friends, family, and significant others. Working on one's relationships is a personal decision that must be done based on who they want to get close to and who they want to keep close, perhaps even building a life together through marriage. A person doesn't simply stay in a relationship in order to make the other person happy and choose to suffer. Instead, they ultimately do it for themseleves and what makes them happy. They decide who they want to marry, what family members they want to talk to, see frequently, and keep in touch with, and which friends they want to spend their free time and effort on.

Some people might say that true happiness comes from focusing on making others happy. However, even if this is the case, ultimately, the person is doing it out of selfishness and making themseleves happy first. For instance, when somebody volunteers to help other people, usually in order to make others happy, or at least less sad, they do it on their own terms. They assure that what they are volunteering to do is something that they enjoy and makes themselves happy first. They do it when it is most convenient for them, and they do it making sure it will not cost a great deal or cause a burden in other areas of their life. It is noble to want to make others happy, but one can not do that without factoring in how it brings themselves joy and making sure that it a pleasureable experience for themselves, too. People do not simply do things to make other people happy if it doesn't in some way benefit themselves. 

In the end, the happiness of a person comes down to a person doing whatever they need to do to make themseleves happy first and foremost. They are more likely to be happy focusing on one's personal goals, even if it is to make others happy, ultimately leading to happiness being found through putting oneself first before all others. As humans with freewill we determine our own happiness and our survival depends on it. True happiness comes from creating it for yourself through your own predetermined personal goals that only you get to decide. Finding happiness through helping others is simply a byproduct of finding happiness by focusing on one's own goals.  


