Even though materialism has some slightly beneficial aspects for some, I think modern society should be criticized at least to some degree for its dependance on material goods.  Materialism is great for economies and provides an economic boon and job creation opportunities for manufacturers.  However, we as human beings are losing touch with our core being by the promise of cheap products and goods.

Our ancestors toiled for long hours on farms and in factories to make ends meet and support their families.  Because of this, they were happy with what they had and appreciated the value of their work.  They sought pleasure in simple, meaningful things such as spending time with their families and friends.  They were not bound by the opiate that is material posessions and were spared the fate of "shallow happiness" that comes with pursuing such things.

Today's society is much different.  People are taught via television and other media that it is important to buy and own more things.  They lose themself in the neverending cycle of buying stuff in the pursuit of a level of happiness that they will never actually achieve.  They don't spend time doing the activities that provide an actual sense of joy to their lives.

Some may argue that materialism is necessary in modern society due to what I mentioned before about economies and jobs.  These two things are very important.  However, they alone cannot satisfy our basic human needs of happiness, love, and joy.  

Others argue that it would be impossible to return to the lifestyle that our ancestors enjoyed before the rise of materialism.  To them, I say that nothing is impossible.  Even if one were only able to put a small dent in their spending on material items, they would see a benefit.  Some of these benefits, such as an increase in saved money, would be somewhat superficial.  On top of that though, a person could realize that taking part in the never ending rat race to acquire more items is not the way to find true happiness in life.  

In closing, I stress that each person is responsible for finding their own happiness.  I realize that there will be some who continue to focus on what they have as an indicator of their worth.  That being said, I still challenge everyone to reassess their priorities and at least try to focus on a different way of living.  If at least one person learns to see that there is more to life than just buying meaningless items, the world will be a better place.
