     It is becoming more and more apparent that the images presented in advertisement are intended to influence the public to purchase goods or services rather than present one-hundred percent factual information. The images celebrities present are highly influential on our youth. These images may influence teens to believe they should look and act a certain way, even if that image is not naturally attainable.
    When scrolling through social media, images of the Kardashians are unavoidable. Excessive makeup, designer clothing, Photoshopped skin, and morphed bodies are all prevalent in these images. Many young women (and men) see these images and think that is how they are supposed to look in order to be "perfect". It is important to note that these bodies are likely obtained by cosmetic procedures, not just diet and exercise. This smoke and mirrors tactic is prompting teens to go purchase makeup, idolize brand names, and sometimes even resort to starvation in order to attain this look. 
    Upon entering department stores such as Macy's, Nordstrom, etc, you will come upon counters of products making promises to give porcelain-like skin, an even complexion, and to eliminate wrinkles. Often times more than not, these claims are not accurate. You may note improvement in the skin, but the advertisements on the boxes promise a perfect complexion which is more than likely not attainable. It is important to research the ingredients that are listed on the back of the boxes, often in small print. 
    The moral of the story is to not always believe what you see. The media purposely promote these advertisements to increase the sales of products and to boost the economy. The youth is their target, as they are not at the age to know better. Now, don't get me wrong, sometimes the images that public figures maintain is positive. Take Oprah Winfrey, for example. She changed the lives of many people with her talk show and continues to donate to charities. If people would follow in her footsteps, the world would be a much better place. 
    I believe if advertisement continues in the manner it currently is, we will observe that future generations have less morals and selfishness will be prevalent. Life is not always about looking the best or having the most expensive items, but the images we are being shown lead us to believe this is so. There must be an intervention, for the sake of our youth depends on it. I do not believe this will be an easy task, and more than likely the fate is sealed. It is a sad reality that we live in. I do believe that there is still a glimmer of hope somewhere, but it will take a rebuttal from the public in order to initiate the change. Once the ball gets rolling, the possiblities are endless.
