The functioning of modern society has become very dependent on money. In a world where the costs of rent, education, and other basic essentials keep rapidly increasing, it can seem necessary to pursue financial validation as a way to measure success. Life can be difficult without a stable and solid income, and our focus on money may just be an acknowledgement of this reality. But our focus on money does not have to go as far as it does. Many of us look at our possessions as status symbols that show how much we are worth. We are seen as "poor" if we do not have a new iPhone and subscribe to the Apple ecosystem and for arbitrary decisions like buying store-brand products or certain wireless providers. Even taking public transportation is a symbol of being poor in much of the United States. Reflecting on the current state of society, our striving for money and financial success is simply a necessary evil. However, the level of self-worth that we ascribe to our possessions and how much they cost shows that the focus on materialism in American society has gone too far.
Economically, maintaining a materialist society makes sense. If consumers buy as soon as they receive their paychecks instead of saving for a rainy day, there are immediate positive effects on the economy. But the crisis we face requires a rethinking of this obsession with infinite growth. The planet's resources are running out and we, especially in the West, have already exploited them to our own benefit ahead of others. From the top down, it is necessary for a political party to take action that would make American culture less materialistic. However, with our anti-authoritarian, anti-intellectual and individualistic mindset this really feels like it would be difficult. Our continued extraction of resources will only lower our standard of living in the decades to come - we are already seeing increased numbers of extreme heat events and people displaced due to severe hurricanes and other disasters. The question might not soon be whether we can afford the newest iPhone every year but whether we can afford food for many current middle-class Americans.
The collective social mindset needs to change to one of collectivism to mitigate this materialism that pervades throughout our society. We need to realize that what goes around comes around and we cannot simply keep extracting nonrenewable resources and growing the economy by 3 percent every year. Paradigms go on forever until they are no longer able to - and when societies are forced to stop following them in short order, the consequences are disastrous. The energy devoted to obtaining ne possessions for many well-off Americans and global citizens can better be devoted to thinking about what can be done for the world. Individual action is a good start, although people need to be careful to truly punish the corporations that have helped perpetuate this materialism. This can be done by voting in candidates who have visions that may seem a little bit radical today but are necessary towards building a more sustainable society. Unfortunately, Americans especially (but also other nations) seem too mired in domestic squabbles and voter fraud bickering to do this at the moment. Political change almost always starts in an era of crisis, where people become too distracted from their materialistic ways to ignore the errors of their leadership. But is it possible to pre-empt this process and raise awareness without a turning point that causes hardship?
History seems to follow cycles, according to the Strauss-Howe generational theory. Perhaps the world is in a "fourth turning" where it lands in an era of crisis that promotes a cultural shift. I think it is perhaps appropriate to view the current materialism of modern society as just a passing element of the "good times" that precede the last time. Focusing on possessions is already human nature and corporations have managed to exploit that to the fullest extent and keep them buying. Individual people are thus not particularly as fault for following an intense materialism, but the brokenness of overall society should be addressed and harshly criticized for what it will lead to in the immediate future.
