Images and impressions have great affects on the perceptions of individuals and creates a false sense of security, false knowledge, and other marketing schemes take advantage of people. 

Perceptions are created in different ways by marketing agents, news media, and other media sources to "trick" or to mislead people or groups into believing one idea or another. A great example of this is interior decorating. Interior decorating in businesses uses calm colors such as light blues, greens, to make an office uncomfortable and uninviting. If an office or another organization wants to be more inviting they will choose warm colors and inviting tones. These ideas help restaurants earn more money, but in turn can cause an epidemic, such as obesity. 

Photographs in media are also very visual and coercive. The writers, directors, and journalists write titles to catch a readers attention. Comments on social media about news articles often seek to retitle images or headlines in a certain way that is more socially accpetable. If a title seeks to blame a person of color, the commentors will re-write a headline to adjust it to be more truthful. People seem to be catching on to these marketing ideas that use clever advertisements, catchy headlines, and appearances. 

Another example of this is marketing schemes. For example, McDonalds might use those bright red and yellow tones in it's logo to attract children or to induce hunger. The same idea is used in other areas of the food industry. Red, is an example of using color schemes to create an emotional reaction in the brain that would help induce hunger. Restaurants like red plates because that helps make their patrons hungry and ready to eat, meaning they spend more money. This could possibly contribute to some small factors in the U.S. being a country with an obesity issue. 

In conclusion, images, impressions, colors, and visiual aspects of marketing do have negative affects on people and marketing schemes could possibly create valid issues in society.  People are attracted to catchy things and that might not always be helpful or healthy for society. Appearances sometimes are deceiving.



