Our world today is focussed on personal achievment. Unlike even thirty years ago, people are taking the time to develope their own way of doing things, instead of just going with the flow or doing what is expected. Our world is changing and that is partially because we are begining to focus more on working together and cooperating, rather than compeeting against eachother. While both competition and cooperation play a role in society, people achieve more sucess with cooperation. 

When people work together in a group they are able to bounce ideas off of one another. People from different backgrounds or those who have had different experiences are able to bring a more diverse set of ideas to the table. A white student with no experience of raceism will not have the same experiences and opinions of a fourty year old African American gentleman. Thus working together on a solution to a problem, more ideas  and different points of view can be heard. Even those who are of the same race and age, but a different gender will have different oppinions. With cooperation, more ideas are able to be thought of and therefore the chance of solving problems increeses. 

In addition to having more ideas and a higher possability of solving problems, cooperation also prevents people from helping others. In an envionmenent where people are only thinking of their own advancement, or in a competitive enviornment, often times they hold back their ideas so that they are able to make sure that they recieve the credit. Take an employee at a store for example. If they have been working there for a while and have a desiree to advance they are going to do whatever it takes. They will give ideas to management and even other employees on how to improve things with the desire to be recognized. These ideas may improve things store wide. But if they know that they are only recognized for their own work and improvement, they will keep the ideas to themself. Therfore improvements will happen in their own department, but not store wide. 

Some people may say that competition drives people to work harder and improve themsevles. While that can be true in some cases, often it is not. Often the competition will make others not work as hard and make them always become discouraged. I saw this many times in school. When the smartest kid in the class always got the highest grade and received all of the awards, the morale of the other students dropped. In the beginning, students would work hard to try and be at the top, but after a while they would give up and not try as hard. Why should they? They would never be as good as the "smartest" kid in the class. But once the teachers stopped posting the grades and there wasn't a copmetition amoung the students the grades began to go up and the attitude of the students improved.

Another instance where competition has actually hurt instead of helped was with my daughter's gymnastic team. The girls constantly worked to improve individually, yet did not help eachother to improve other skills. In the end, some girls improved, but as a team their scores did not go up. The following season the coach had the girls work together to improve, and the season ended with higher scores because they worked together.

Both cooperation and competition is important in ore society. However cooperation will provide more sucess overall. By working together we can bring more ideas to the table and look at problems from different points of view. We can improve together and make this world an even better place. Working together and cooperating can help us individually and as a team!

