There are many differing beliefs regarding how one achieves happiness. In a life that is finite and with no pre-determined goals, most people are often left wondering what is the purpose for their own life and how can they achieve this purpose while finding happiness along the way.  Should happiness be the ultimate goal in and of itself or will happiness come from achieving some bigger purpose?

From my experiences, I believe that happiness comes easier when I'm able to create happiness for others.  If I only strive to create personal goals (i.e. get a Masters Degree, buy a house, run a marathon), I may be happy in the short-term as I achieve these goals, but there's no lasting sense of satisfaction and instead almost a feeling of emptiness after the goals have been achieved.  I spent all of this time and energy to do something for myself, and in the end, what is there really to show for it?  Whereas, if I spend my energy and resources to achieve something that will benefit others, not only am I happy that I accomplished something important but I'm happy that my efforts will create happiness for others for possibly the infinite future.  If, for example, I work on a campaign to support a political candidate whose views I agree with, if he is elected, I will have a lasting sense of happiness seeing the positive changes he's able to implement that will likely impact millions of people.  Or, if I volunteer for Habitat for Humanity and help to build a house, I will not only be happy once my goal is accomplished, but also everytime I drive by this house or think about the family whose life improved as a result of my contribution.

I can understand that some may disagree with this opinion.  They may think that putting others first all the time will inevitably result in neglecting yourself.  However, I think that as long as what you are doing is making you happy, then in the end you are taking care of yourself.  It's almost like the saying "killing two birds with one stone".  If I can make myself and others happy by what I do, won't I be happier than if what I do only makes myself happy.

Finding happiness is indeed one of life's ultimate quests.  If it were so easy to find happiness, perhaps our culture wouldn't suffer from depression, mental health crises, substance abuse, etc.  While I know that I will not always be happy, I do know that life is short, and when we leave this earth, we don't take anything with us.  However, when we leave this earth, we also leave future generations of people behind.  If I can do things that will make life happier for these future generations, even if it doesn't end of making me happier like I thought it would, at least I will die knowing that what I did had purpose and meaning.  Hopefully that, in and of itself, will make me happy.
