To be happy is a goal of every person on this Earth. The big question that follows this is how do you acheive happiness. Not just the fleeting moment of happiness you have at a party but a true happiness. To be happy you must first and foremost be happy with yourself. How can you find that?  Does it last or is it just something that only a few and select people can find? Do only the rich find this or can anyone find it? Is it just my job to find my happiness or should I find it within other people and their accomplishments?

To be happy with one self means different things to different people. At the end of the day if you can sit down in your house and say hey that was a good day most days for me that is happiness. To wake up in the morning excited about the day and going through it with that feeling is also the feeling of happiness that lasts longer then the fleeting moment at a birthday party. The feeling that travels with you as you do other things in your life and even after years still gives you that giddy feeling in your stomache. This is something that anyone can find. Find that dream and go get it and find that happiness no matter how big or small that dream is find the path. After that path there will be more to do but along the way take the happiness from the previous path with you.

The path you make is yours alone to travel. You may find some people on the sides of the path but happiness truely is from within. As you travel your path there will be mini victories you can share with others but when its you alone in your living room and you sit and reflect upon them and get that feeling is the way to find that happiness that eludes so many people in life. Yes, helping others may bring joy but that is a fleeting feeling then you must find others to help and make happy. Being happy to be you brings the down right awesome feeling and you can then share that happiness with so many other people.

What makes people happy also vaires but the one thing that makes everyone happy is  making a goal and acheiving it. To work towards that point through the ups and the downs yet seeing that point and knowing when you get there that the feeling will be the best you have ever had. That your goal and your dream is just a bit down the road and each and every day it is getting closer and closer brings a smile to you face and a lift in your step. The feeling of accomplishment the yes I did it feeling. 

Your goal might involve helping others find their happiness but in the end the goal in life is truely your own happiness no matter how you find that. It might be finding the best way to make a new machine it might be how many people you can lead to your church but ultimatly happiness comes from within you not from outside. Truely finding happiness for yourself will spread happiness to the others beside you. As you walk the path to your goal and see the end the will see what is happening for you and give them the motivation to have their own goal and dream to find that happiness that can be so very hard to find.

Happiness is different for everyone but to be happy is up to one person. That is the person looking back at you in the mirror.  Find that dream that goal you want to acheive and find a way to make it happen. Remember the journey there is how the happiness is made that is not just a fleeting moment but one that will last forver. That is true happiness. If you can find that the days when you are older and not able to do much will be sent in reflection of finding those goals and acheiving those dreams and the people who cheered you and and that helped you get to that point and the ones you were able to help because you found that happiness. 

Happiness is not always being the one on top the one with the most money but to be the one that has your dreams met and how you have spread the happiness you foud along your path shared with others. So findthat path and dream. Enjoy the travel of that path and share your smiles with others as you walk closer to that goal you have set. Share your happiness and your knowlege but continue to that dream.
