One of the most reliable indicators of success is one's internal will and spirit. If you have to drive to push your self, and an environment to foster your growth, you can succeed in many aspects of life. However, some must look outside themselves to achieve success. Sometimes looking beyond yourself to those around you can be the push that you need to succeed.

One of the most famous cases of competition driving success is Michael Jordan, the greatest basketball player of all time. With a ferocious competitive spirit and a never-say die attitude, Jordan drove his Chicago Bulls teams to 6 NBA championships. While no doubt being physically gifted played a part, many will acknowledge his competitive spirit as the driving force behind the success of these teams. Completely unbending and unwilling to let others beat him, Jordan was the ultimate competitor.

While Michael Jordan may be an extreme example of competition driving success, you can look within your own organization or business to see other examples. It has been well documented that observing others succeed in promotions or awards boosts one's will to succeed. By seeing others achieve great heights, we are emboldended to strive for greatness. This is especially true in academia where publishing in high-impact well-known journals is the ultimate indicator of success and prowess. Because these journals are way that scientific ideas are spread, you can easily see who is publishing the highest quality science and aspire to emulate them. This can also take place in scientific meetings, where you meet your competition and work best to learn how and why they are able to do such great science.

This is not to say that cooperation does not play a factor in success. Sometimes you need to cooperate with others, especially when you work in a diverse field with many different skillsets. However, having worked in such an environment, I often find that these cooperative opportunities often lead to competitiveness. I think back on my favorite anime and the slogan "Set your heart ablaze" and the competitive spirit begins to well up inside me. 
