     People in the world are continually exposed to visual images and impressions. Both corporations and individuals attempt to make people believe that they desire what they see. Visual images seen through television, written media, and especially social media, give people the mistaken belief that appearances make a difference. This constant exposure to visual images and appearances can have very negative consequences for many people. 
     People are bombarded with advertisements on television, magazines, and billboards. Most of the advertisements show beautiful, well-dressed people who are enjoying life, usually with the product that is being advertised, such as a car, or a drink, or some type of clothing. It is only human that people desire to be like the person they are viewing, so the advertisements result in people purchasing the product. They do not realize they have been brainwashed into buying the product by being influenced by the advertisement that if they buy the product, they will become like the people in the ad. Unfortunately this is usually far from the truth.
     Another way that people in the world are heavily influenced is through social media. There can be some good uses for social media, for example, to allow out-of-town family members to see your family. Unfortunately, people only show the good parts of their lives on social media. They only show the times they are on vacation, or the times that the family has dressed up for a picture, or maybe even show a new home or car they have bought. Social media can especially have too much of a negative effect on some people. It is easy to compare oneself to friends and family on social media, and develop feelings of envy and resentment toward someone who has something that you want. Young people, especially teenagers, become very resentful and depressed when they see other teens who look better or seem to have a better life. These feelings can lead to depression and suicide among teenagers and even young adults. 
     Images and impression often have a large effect on people, and most of the time, with negative consequences.  Images can be uplifting to people, especially when you see your family on social media. However, images most often have negative consequences.  Images in the media can cause a person to spend money on something frivilous, hoping to copy someone the see in an advertisement. The most dangerous consequences are found among people who follow social media because social media can result in feelings of envy and resentment, and sadly, even depression and suicide. The best advice is to be aware of how images and impressions are affecting you. Just having the awareness of how you are being affected can help you counteract the effects. And sometimes it is best to avoid social media, such as Facebook or Instagram, altogether. It is best to spend time with friends and family participating in enjoyable activities than worrying about what someone else appears to have.  Appearances are very deceiving.


