People are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals. Living for others can be satisfying and build relationships, but it comes at a cost to oneself. If a person lives for their own personal goals, they can instead become more able to aid others after the fact. An established, successful person has more ability to help others than a person that lives for others from the start.

While a life lived for others can be considered to be wholesome, even spiritual, it comes at a great cost to oneself. People can be selfish, and not all can be expected to reciprocate a good deed. A person that lives for others can very easily find themselves feeling empty and unrewarded after wasting much of their life helping others. If the people helped are ungrateful, selfish even, then that person has nothing to show for what they did. Because they focus on others they spend no time building up their own success or stability, which leaves them vulnerable to fall through the cracks. Additionally, a person that lives for others builds no personal resources from which to help people. Overall living primarily for others neglects the self and will likely lead to an unhappy life.

A life lived for one's personal goals results in a gain of whatever it is one desires. Living to enrich oneself, whether it be knowledge or money or success, allows one to settle down and relax after the fact. Armed with whatever knowledge or resources have been accumulated over this period of living for oneself, one is better equipped to then live for others afterward. While young and energetic one should focus on tasks that personally enrich them. The desire to help or live for others may exist even if one chooses to live for onself. Once life is stable, successful, and a safety net has been built with which to take risks, life can be lived to give back and aid others. A life lived for ones goals can be happy and satisfying on its own, but it can also arm a person with the tools, resources, and knowledge needed to start living for others and find happiness elsewhere.

Of course, a life lived for others can be personally enriching as well. If strong personal connections can be built, a safety net and a different type of wealth will come with them. If material possession is less important to someone that spirituality or relationships with others, happiness may be found even in a selfless life. If the people they help are good and grateful, they may even find more material success. In some cases, a life lived for others may be more fulfilling, as the deep relationships can fill needs that material possessions never could. A higher cause accomplished may be more satisfying than simply accumulating wealth. And less time focusing on work may open one's time up to spend with people they care a bout. A life lived for the happiness of others can be happy, but it is a greater risk and less likely to work than a life lived for one's personal goals.

A life lived for one's personal goals has another avenue to ensure happiness. Living for your own goals grants you control of what goals are accomplished. Under your own control, whatever it is that your heart desires to accomplish may be accomplished as that is what you will focus on. Living for the happiness of others leaves control in the hands of others. If the happiness of people conflicts with one's personal happiness, or causes harm to something important to oneself, one has no control over it. Other people can and will live for their personal goals, regardless of what one may do for them or wish from them.

A person can be happy whether they live for their personal goals or for the happiness of others. The greatest distinction is the likelihood of achieving happiness with the type of life a person chooses to lead. A life lived for others can be fulfilling in terms of personal relationships, but carries the risk of a lack of personal wealth and achievement. A life focused on one's personal goals ensures personal security, and allows more freedom to focus on the happiness of others once one's personal goals are out of the way. Even more importantly, a life lived for one's personal goals allows personal control over the outcomes of one's actions. Therefore people that focus on their own goals are more likely to be happy than people that focus on the happiness of others.
