In every society in history there have been different metrics involved in the societal status of prosperity or what is perceived as economically "wealthy". In ancient societies, these commodoties were often land, livestock, servants (or slaves), or precious metals. In modern society, while some of these commodoties are still valued, we often fall back on simple materialism as our measure of success or self-worth. Is this a socially healthy trend, or merely something that is innate in us as humans?

In the move "Fight Club", the narrative between the main characters often revolves around the mindless accumulation of physical "stuff", and why we have normalized these behavioral patterns as a society. Is it to fit in with others? This movie and other books and movies have argued that our constant accumulation of material goods is often at odds with our evolutionary heritage - or the idea that we must survive at all costs. The discussion must then turn to our current system of economics, which is often proft-driven, or capitalistic above all else. If we are not consuming goods, there are those who would argue that the whole system would come crashing down for everyone. In the opinion of some, then, it is imperative that we continue to be collectively materialistic - for the good of society! 

As we see other correlary factors inherent with this endless accumulation of goods - the decline of mental health and the rise of social media and mass-marketing with incredibly detailed advertisements targeted at individuals through the subversion and collection of raw data and purchasing habits - we must consider the idea that we have been lied to or at the very least, misled. Certainly there are material goods that can serve us well and bring us some semblance of happiness, but material goods are not inherently good or bad, and modern society's obsession with "keeping up with the Jones's" has had a net negative impact on our global development and is likely to blame for mismanaged spending in many areas that are less visible or glamorous. 

Ultimately, materialism may indeed be a neccessary evil of our modern society. It will likely always be with us to a certain extent, because as long as there are economic divides between groups of people, these same people will want a visible way of proving these distinctions. Material goods can be beautiful, unique, or cherished, but they can also be weapons of social disruption and discrimination, and modern society and culture should not be absolved for the role it plays in this behavior. For modern society to truly flourish and reach its potential, we need our time, energy, and resources to go towards things that benefit more than just our societal egos. 
