     A major debate in our times surrounds materialism, and whether as a society we should make a collective effort to reduce materialism. Personally, I don't feel as though we deserve criticism for our materialistic ways, as the desire to acquire possessions has been found throughout the ages. Materialism represents a deeper human desire for both status, belonging, and survival. 
     Archeologists have routinely uncovered evidence that materialism existed amongst our ancient ancestors, whether it be the riches found within the ancient Egyptian tombs, or Vikings buried in a boat full of their prized possesions. Even for those cultures who did not try to send their goods with them to the afterlife, evidence exists of ornate clothing, pottery, and jewelry used in daily life. Societies both past and present have shown desire to accumulate objects that convey their status, achievements, and kinships.
     Acquiring material belongings is an indirect way of communicating to others our accomplishments and potential, which at its core ties back to our survival instincts. To ensure the best life outcome for ourselves and our offspring, its in our best interest to showcase our acquisitions to others. Our acquisitions, to some degree, convey our level of talent and intelligence. For example, if I showed up to a job interview in ragged clothes instead of crisp business attire, it would cast doubt on my abilities and I would be less likely to be hired.
     Whether materialism "should" exist is a different question altogether. It may not be fair that the outfit I wear to a job interview makes me any more or less likely to land the job, but it does. So I don't believe we should be negatively judged for our materialism, as historical evidence indicates it's a deeply engrained aspect of human culture. We may one day be able to override our innate tendencies with conscious effort, and if we were to succeed it would likely be a less stressful world to live in, and a boon for the environment to boot.  

