Materialism is seen as the way of the world to most people. It's so ingrained many never even think about it. But generational differences may make that end, as younger people have different perspectives on what's really important and what's moral and possible.
The boomer generation is considered pretty materialistic and to have come of age during the 'yuppie' years and under Reaganism, which was rife with materialism and greed as good and the ultimate sign of success. Most boomers consider success based on their material accumulations, such as a house, nice car, vacation home, having a boat, and going on nice vacations. But younger generations take a different tack. Due to many material things being out of reach due to growing up and coming of age in an economy where material wealth simply isn't possible for most, millennials and now zoomers have focused on other things, such as material experiences and hobbies that are about interacting with others and appreciating relationships and the world. Climate change is also a much bigger issue to younger generations, who subsequently see materialsm as wasteful, immoral and irresponsible. Issues that wouldn't have occurred to their parents, such as the sustainability of their clothing choices, are more and more commonly taken into account by younger generations who want to think about the consequences of their choices and think about the future and the big picture. So materialism, while the way of life in any capitalistic society, is changing in form while not going away entirely. There will always be those who think the ultimate way to be successful is to have more to show off. But there's also a movement towards minimalism, which can be a sign of wealth in its own right.
Materialism will probably always be around, and be criticized rightly. But there can be more moral and responsible and sustainable ways to procure material goods, and it's unrealistic to ask all people to stop thinking about material goods. Sometimes small things can make people happy, and there should be a focus on, as Marie Kondo has so famously and aptly, just procuring what "sparks joy" while not trying to make everyone live like an ascetic. There can be a happy medium for all.
