The pursuit of happiness is one of the most intrinsic motivations of human beings the world over.  Throughout history and today, many different approaches have been taken in the search for happiness.  Two major contrasting ideas about happiness are that true happiness will stem from an individualistic persuit of one's own goals, dreams, and desires; and that happiness will result from a focus on the good and betterment of those around oneself, one's community, or of humanity as a whole.

Individuals are more likely to achieve happiness if they focus primarily on their own personal goals as, since humans are inherently social, the large majority of people will  be more likely to have goals and dreams that have positive consequences for those around them, and thus society will also be better off and happier as a whole.  For instance, many young people grow up dreaming of becoming doctors, firefighters, or other professions that have a positive impact on the world; obviously, many adults actually do take up these jobs.  Further, millions of people donate their time and money to charities every year, in part because doing so brings them increased happiness or aleviates unhappiness.

Certainly some individuals will harm others through their actions if left totally free to pursue their own versions of happiness, but the existence of laws and punishments, as well as the balancing effects of disapproval and dissuasion from the rest of one's community or society will mitigate this harm.  Individuals whose ideas of happiness would bring harm to others are and will continue to be regulated by the criminal justice system.  Further, they would be extremely unlikely to ever be willing to focus on the betterment of society rather than upon their own desires, so this is not a reason to encourage others in general to disregard their dreams in order to focus solely on the subjective happiness of others. Society will ultimately be happier overall when people pursue their hopes and dreams than if individuals focused solely on the happiness of others to the exclusion of their own.

Thus, the most effective and efficient method to ensuring the greatest levels of happiness for the greatest numbers of people is to encourage individuals to pursue their unique dreams and life goals and to support them in their reach for happiness.
