I am a materialist. This statement may seem simple, but it carries a far more profound impact. Life itself is material, we are material, and the world we live in is material. In order to function in a world of materials, we must embrace our materialism. 

In order to live, one must aquire materials. In the most simple form, we can this of Maslows Heirarchy of needs. The most basic are food, water, and shelter. In order to meet the most basic needs of life, we must aquire the most basic materials necessary for our survival. Once we have aquired these basic essentials, then we can move up the hierarchy. While many of the additional steps may seem to meet our emmotional needs, they can also be viewed in a materialistic way. How do we become comfortable and loved? We can do this by improving out shelter, finding mates, and having a family. Each of these steps requires additinal materials to be acquired. 

While many argue that society, as a whole, has become far too materialistic, this does not mean that materials is a bad thing. Yes, consuming more goods than are required, creating unnecessary wastes, and polluting our planet are indeed awful outcomes. These outcomes are not required from a materialistic society. If done correctly, acquiring possessions and spending money can direclty correlate to meaning and happiness in our lives. It is when these aspects become unbalanced that leads to negative outcomes. Some spend money in order to find meaning. This is a mistake. You must find your meaning, then spend your money and time to acquire meaningful experiences that help you to fulfill that meaning. Materialism, in and of itself, cannot MAKE you find meaning, but it can certaining allow you to explore and express your true meaning. 

The old adage of "money cannot buy happiness" is true to a certain point. It may not buy happiness, but is certainly makes happiness much more attainable. In order to reach the most basic levels of Maslow's Heirarchy, it is necessary to be a materialist. To acquire the basic needs of life requires the acquring of posessions. As you move up the heirarch and satisfy your physiological and needs for safety, then materialism becomes the key to eventual self actualization. In order to provide for a family, gain self esteem, find belonging, and attain status, there is a constant need for materialism. This could mean a home large enough for your family, business appropriate clothing, necessary tools to complete your work, etc. Once you are able to move up the heirarchy, then you can reach self actulization and find your place in this world.

While critics may say that materialism and consumption are actually uncessary and even consider them problematic. They have not fully though about the role of materialism in a path to happiness. They are correct in stating that overconsumption is a bad thing, but they fail to address this as an imbalance to the system and instead consider this symptom that final outcome. In a functioning system, the indiviudals are not finding their meanign an happiness with materialism, but rather through materialism. They have found their passions and their drive within themselves, Materialism simply gives them an outlet to disply that passion. Ultimately, if directed properly, materialism can lead to a fully actualize self. 
