     Modern society has become materialistic. There are many factors that contribute to this. One factor is the generation of spoiling children with everything. There are no more days of just playing outside. Society has become a tech savy day care. 

    This society has to have the best and show it. One of the platforms to show it is social media. The number of members that subscribe to watch these competitions are astronomical. These people are giving a false sense of happiness, pretending that there is happiness in all of the material things that they own. In reality, they are not happy at all. 

 There is nothing wrong with sharing what makes you happy, or things that you like, but there is a fine line to bragging. This is not healthy. Some may think that if they aquire these things that they will bring them happiness and it does not in all situations. People will be let down all of the time if they look for happiness in material things. People will even go into debt in order to get these expensive items, just to "keep up" with the trends. This could be devastating to families. 

 No one knows what the future holds, but one thing is for sure, it will be a future of material competitions. This could not end in a positve situation. This will more than likely make people become more self-centered, less caring of others and more lovers of themselves.  

     Prior to all the technology and material false sense of accomplishments, families spent much more time with each other, talked to one another, instead of staring a the phone. Families would eat dinner together and talk about how everyone day had gone. Instead, dinner is in the bedroom, outside or just not with the family. Everyone is doing their own thing. This is breaking families apart, and if it contiues, our family dynamic as a whole is in danger. We must change this now! Or we will be in a world that has their phones in their face, taking a picture of themselves, showing off their expensive items and going home sad and alone. 



