Cooperation and competition have always been present within human society.  While both have their place in our world, it is through cooperation that humans have been able to achieve so much more.  Working together gives people the ability to share ideas and thoughts.  Cooperation allows everyone to participate and share their opinions about what is being played out.  While competition might be a driving factor for some people, it is more in tuned to human nature to band together in order to complete a task.

First, consider the potential behind a group of individuals (large or small) working together to solve an issue at their workplace.  If it were a problem that spanned more than one sect of a large company, it would be beneficial to the whole for people from each department to work together to overcome the obstacle.  People would have different areas of expertise and viewpoints, in relation to their work, that others in the company might not consider.  When there is a mixing of ideas, more creative and novel solutions can be formulated; this leads to better solutions for everyone involved.  If competition in this scenario replaced cooperation, a solution would be hard to come by in an efficient and timely manner.  A single viewpoint would not be able to overcome any blindspots that might be associated with that particular person's job.  Cooperation, in this instance, is key to progressing forward for the benefit of all.

The ability for people to feel as if they are a part of a team that is working towards solving an issue gives them more inspiration to rise above their usual effort.  It is true that competition can envigorate people, but that is usually only the case with people who thrive upon proving themselves better than everyone else involved.  Many more people feel the need to contribute their knowledge and expertise if they do not feel threatened and instead are welcomed into a communal environment.  These people will feel as if their opinions on the matter will be respected and potentially implemented in the final solution.  It is a team environment that they will find themselves in, not a me versus them situation.  In this case, they will be more willing to work with others, share their know how, and accept feedback from people that might illuminate some formally unknown knowledge.  Cooperation helps to bring people together in an accepting environment in order for them to progress forward, no matter what obstacles stand in their way.

There are those in this world that would not agree that cooperation is what drives progress. They side with competition due to their individual experiences with said method.  While it is true that the want to be better than others is a strong motivation to some people, it negates the benefits that can be found through cooperation.  With competition, people cannot learn from others because they are too focused on their own preformance.  They do not think about what could be gained from sharing what they know and gaining previously unknown information from different people.  This lack of communal understanding is detrimental to the people as a whole.  The person does not veer away from the path they believe to be right, especially while in the heat of competition.  This mindset can be poisonous to them and those around them.  Through cooperation, however, people are not as rigid as those who are solely competitive.  There is an ebb and flow to the sharing and gaining of knowledge and solutions.  Through that, more innovative and forward thinking answers can be attained, as well as a better understanding of the world around us.  Humans thrive on working together for a common goal, so why fight against what is natural? 
