I have found out the hard way that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals instead of the happiness of others.  Unfortunately, it took me a long time to discover this truth.

I spent most of my life in a futile attempt to please others and gain their approval, instead of focusing on myself and what I wanted.  It began in childhood and continued pretty much until I became an empty-nester.  As a child, I took all sorts of lessons (dance, piano, swimming, etc.).  My mother had wanted to play the piano her entire life, but her family was unable to afford it when she was a child.  Although I was good at playing piano, it was definitely not my passion, but I was told that I was never allowed to stop lessons and was forced to practice.  I quit everything else in an effort to be allowed to quit piano, but I was still forced to continue piano.  Finally as a senior in high school, I was told by my mother and by my teacher that I was going to audition for a piano scholarship at a college in my hometown.  I thought I had found my out because I knew there would be others who were better than me.  Much to my surprise and disappointment, I won.  I couldn't face four years of college majoring in something I had no interest in and finally put my foot down and said I was not doing it.  According to my mother, I ruined her life.  That was my first (and probably biggest lesson) in learning that you cannot make someone else happy and that you only end up sacrificing your own happiness and goals in the end.  Although that should have been enough to make that painful lesson stick with me, I kept repeating it throughout two marriages and raising a child.  I put the focus entirely on others, trying to make them happy while sacrificing my own interests.  It was only during alone times and during times when I was single that I would focus on myself and my own interests, and finally I started to realize that not only was I happier, but it made it easier for me to help other people be happier, too.

I know there are those that say you will gain happiness by focusing on others and helping them.  It is true that you will feel good yourself when you can make someone else happy, but that does not apply if you are not first happy yourself.  You cannot help others be happy when you are miserable, so focus on your own dreams and goals first and then you will be in more of a position to help others achieve theirs and become happy themselves.  Happiness is contagious, but it has to start with you!


