It sound noble to assert that happiness can only be found by helping others, but that is an unrealistic vision of humanity. Focusing on others in order to bring personal happiness doesn't take into account all of the factors that contribute to an individual's happiness and also doesn't account for all of the things that you can't control if you try to make others happy. As a result, I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on well-considered personal goals rather than only thinking about the happiness of others.

A good personal goal is one that inspires action. It should help to create a vision of the future that you want to work toward and that you want to live in. Often, a personal goal is not just one goal, but a collection of goals that work in a unified manner to build toward the future that you envision. Additionally, a good personal goal should not merely be a checklist of something that you know you'll accomplish; instead, it should be a bit of a stretch to truly inspire you to work toward that goal. If you select appropriate personal goals for yourself, you'll be able to work toward a future where you will be happy.

Focusing on personal goals also allows you to have more ownership of being happy. Knowing their locus of control and choosing goals that they can work on is the best way for an individual to ensure their own happiness. You could do all you can to help others find their own happiness, but if that person has factors completely out of your control, then they may not be happy and ultimately you may not be happy for having failed at your task. It's better to keep a focus on what you are able to manage, and that means focusing on your personal goals. 

Some people may counter this and say that it's important to focus on the happiness of others or the improvement of humanity in order to experience personal happiness. I would say that this is not necessarily at odds with the ideas of working on personal goals. A personal goal could encompass ideas such as improving relationships with others, community service, or humanitarian outreach; it could even include financial aspects such as being able to donate money to charity or an endowment fund that supports a particular cause. However, it is important to keep in mind the fact that merely ensuring the happiness of others will not ncessarily result in your own personal happiness, such as if you donate too much money and can no longer afford to pay your rent or mortgage.

In summary, personal goals help us to define what we want from our life, including what would help to promote personal happiness. Defining these goals in a thoughtful manner - including choosing to incorporate goals of helping others in the community or greater humanity - and pursuing them relentelessly is more likely to ensure happiness than if you focus only on trying to make others happy.
