Happiness is something that people strive for. We find happiness in a plethora of things in our daily lives - pets, seeing friends, hobbies for example. These things all have one thing in common, we take time for these things to make ourselves happy. Having the ability to focus on ourselves and what we really want is what makes us happy. 

If we focus on ourselves, we're able to identify what makes us truly happy and in turn, help others. By focusing on others, we allow others to be our main source of happiness, relying on how they react to what we have to offer to make us happy. In my personal opinion, there is no difference between focusing on our goals to make ourselves happy and focusing on improving others lives, because at the bottom line, don't they both fit the goal of making us happy?

If you focus on others happiness and rely on their happiness to make you happy, it's a never ending cycle. You can't tell people how to feel or tell them to be happy about what you do for them. You're allowing things out of your control to be the source of your happiness. If you do what you can to help and do what you can to make people happy, without allowing the outcome to affect your happiness, and in turn focusing on your own goals in the situation, it will make you happy becuase you're focusing on your own perogative - making yourself the source of your happiness. If you make yourself happy, you can share the wealth of your own feelings and in turn make the people around you happy. Grant Cardone said something that stuck with me, "it's selfish to not want to do better, how can you help other people if you can't help yourself?" He was speaking financially, but I believe it also stands here.

When people say it makes them feel good to help others or literally, it makes them happy, isn't that at the root, a selfish act? Isn't the only reason to do anything good is to make yourself feel good? Even if people don't want to admit that they do things selfishly, isn't doing things to make yourself feel good inherently a selfish act that focuses on your own goals? 

Happiness comes from focusing on ourselves, our own goals, and making ourselves happy - whether your goal is to move yourself forward or help other people, they're both your own goals. By being the best version of ourselves and focusing on our own goals, people can then feed off what we have to offer the world. If you allow other people to be your source of happiness, I don't think you can ever truly be happy. People are unpredictable, but you know yourself and what makes you happy. 
