Cindy Crawford in daisy dukes and a tank top. That was a commerical for Pepsi. It was, as you can imagine, immensley popular. What does a sexy Cindy Crawford have to do with Pepsi? Well...nothing. But that's not the point. The image of  Cindy Crawford in the shortest of jeans and a tight tank top was the point. The advertisers got you to remember it. Whether you liked the commerical or not, Pepsi was on your mind and that was all that mattered. Pepsi isn't alone in selling you an image over the product. President Clinton playing the sax was cool. It doesn matter what his policies are because you now associate him with youth. And so it is that the "coolest" the "sexiest" wins. Images and impressions have too much effect on people. No where was this more apparentant than in the 2016 election.

Donald Trump, an ignorant, sexist, racist, became president of the United States. Was he qualified? It didn't matter. He cleverly portrayed himself as the "strong man". He wasn't afraid to say what he thought (what you are thinking). So people voted for him. He appealed to the worst versions of ourselves - the ones that want to kick and scream when we don't get our way. The ones that want to say vile things to hurt others because we are hurt and need someone to blame. What are his policies? What does he stand for? It didn't matter. It doesn't matter if he hates women or people of color because he is doing what his voter base wants to do and can't. He's the cool kid from high school who didn't respect authority and did what he wanted. All that matter was his image and people voted for him. Even after a disastourous four years, people still want him to be president because of his image.                   

Images and impressions have far too much power on people. The image becomes the reality even when reality is screaming the opposite. It came to a head when reality no longer mattered and even the election results of 2020 came under fire with no evidence of fraud. What is worse is everyone's image is different, so reality becomes different for each person. For one person Donal Trump is the savior. For another, he's a mad man. When two different realities collide, chaos ensues. It's terrifying.       
   
