We all have our own preferences when it comes to just how well we get along with others, and we all vary in how much alone time we prefer. Some of us are more introverted and like to keep to ourselves. Others are more extroverted and find the more outgoing they are the happier they are. Regardless of where you stand though, in modern society at large it's hard to say most of us could survive on our own. Everyone benefits from and lives off the progress and accomplishments made by others, as well as the labor of others. Who among us can confidently say if left to their own devices entirely, they could survive in the modern world?

Cooperation versus competition, which is more likely to yield results and success or fullfillment to a person? I believe a balance of each are healthy, and promote progress in whatever field we may be speaking of, however cooperation is more important fundamentally. Sure, having competition can promote progress and light a fire under people, but you can still have competition paired with cooperation, and I believe the aspect of cooperation is the more important of the two. Having a solid team of people with different backgrounds and brain chemistry can provide many more perspectives when tackling any idea. 

One way I like to look at it is, if you imagined a world that was driven solely by competition, that is every man for himself, nobody working together, what do you imagine that world to look like? I imagine it to be very combative, with little progress being made technologically, and possibly even biologically. Humans have worked in tribes for most of their history, and that eventually grew to cities and full on civilizations. The development of a civilization is impossible without some levels of cooperation, people working together and agreeing upon basic morals to achieve a common goal. It's hard to imagine we'd be anywhere near where we are technologically if it wasn't for advancements made by large teams of people.

None of this is to say that competition has no use in the world. I do believe competition can fuel innovation, but I believe underneath that competition there is most likely cooperation as well, almost a competition among cooperators. If you take two businesses for example, say Amazon and Microsoft they're certainly competitors. Although Amazon and Microsoft are competitors, this competition promotes innovation at each of the companies, which is a mutual benefit. It also goes without saying Amazon and Microsoft are simply the company name, a label, which represents teams of tens of thousands of employees that all work together to provide a wide range of services. I believe these principals to be true at a large scale level, such as two companies, but also on smaller scales, such as two neighbors. Would you rather have a neighbor that you get along with, maybe take their trash to the curb if they forget after they leave for work, or a neighbor you despise who's always getting on your nerves?

In closing while I do believe that competition has a place in the world alongside cooperation, I believe cooperation ultimately yields more success and innovation. It's hard to get anything done in a hyper-competetive world, in a hyper-cooperative world you'd have many minds working together and yielding varying results. I think a balance of each is the most optimal, but of the two cooperation is a clear winner.
