If the experience of happiness is a facet of a life well-lived, what will make a person happy? Is working to benefit oneself the way to proceed, or is helping others the route to happiness? In this essay I will ponder these two questions.

A person might have one or more significant goals in life. These goals might include earning lots of money, having a satisfying career, having a family, pursuing hobbies and interests, and constantly learning, among other things. In addition to loving and being loved, a person needs to work. Any of the goals I mentioned above requires a significant amount of work to attain. Not only the accomplishment of a goal can produce happiness. The work that is involved in pursuing a goal might be enjoyable as well. Work can be difficult, but even difficult work can bring a person a sense of peace while the person is doing it. In some cases, when working, there is less time to worry about the future, and not worrying about the future is an important component of happiness.

Some might argue that pursuing one's own goals is selfish, that we are obligated to help others without concern for our own interests or even for our own well-being.

Human beings need connection with other human beings, and there is something innately psychologically satisfying about knowing that one has helped others. Therefore, in some cases helping others may lead to happiness.

A relatively small number of people (such as Objectivists) may claim that helping others and not oneself is evil, that altruism is evil. For them, being moral requires pursuing one's own happiness (in an ethical way).

Perhaps it is possible to combine the two approaches (working for one's own happiness and helping others) by trying to achieve happiness BY helping others. That may seem selfish, but it benefits everyone.

It is also possible that trying to be happy by helping oneself benefits others. For example, in an economy that is relatively free, the pursuit of profit (done properly) requires one to create things of value to exchange with others. If the producer or seller is ethical, such an exchange benefits both the seller and the buyer. Objectivists oppose what they call altruism and advocate capitalism, but capitalism if done properly may be both selfish and altruistic.

In conclusion, there may be different ways to achieve happiness. One might work toward one's own goals, or one might help others. Sometimes it is possible to do both at the same time.
