Images and impressions can have a significant impact on how people view the world. From companies to celebrities, it seems that putting on a visual show is more important than clearly representing what is inside and what is behind the name or behind the product. This is clearly seen with celebrities all the time. A pretty face can house the most heinous heart, but ask a random person on the street their thoughts about that person and their answer is often influenced by their looks. Consider Amber Heard who is a famous star, a beautiful starlet who, based on the evidence is really a toxic, violent person. Most people will look at her and say it's impossible. 

Politicians also conceal so much. They show what they want you to see, what they feel comfortable with you knowing about them. Unfortunately this is a mask concealing their worst tendencies, propped up by the lies they tell constituents only to get themselves elected. It would be quite a different story if politicians had to wear patches on their suits of which companies donated to their campaigns. Wouldn't this counter the slick talk and smooth image many politicians use to disguise their snake-like tendencies. 

One can say that people digest things visually at first, and then go from there. Understandable. We make conclusions based on what we see, our initial impressions, but often times it doesn't go much further. How many times have you seen a fat person walking around a store and have the impression that they are lazy and eat all the time because they are that big? That might be true for some but what about the ones that are categorized and minimalized by that impression? I have known many people who are on multiple medications that have caused them to gain a great deal of weight. Too many times we dismiss others because we treat our own perceptions as THEIR truth. 

Companies also like to bling their products but don't ensure that their products are up to snuff electronically and mechanically. Samsung kitchen products is one such company. If you go into a store and look at their refrigerators you would be very impressed. Big, stainless, multiple sized shelves, water and ice on the door and other features that are substantial. However, once you buy that fridge and get it home the ice maker goes, and then the water on the door doesn't work. Evidently this is a frequent issue with Samsung but nowhere is it mentioned that this is a problem, and not really an easy fix either. The glitz and glam and awe moment is what gets the consumer to go all in, and in reality 7 out of 10 people have major issues with these refrigerators.

Although people tend to let images and impressions of products and people affect their view, I believe that most people do not realize just how detrimental this can be. The best advice to give in trying to gauge the moment is to give others the benefit of doubt. Perception is truth in the daily world, but in reality it isn't that simple. Keep an open mind, don't judge others and dig, dig, dig beyond the visual. You may still find yourself at the same conclusion, but if nothing else, you will have exercised constructive and principled thinking and may learn more about yourself than you ever expected.  
