There is much debate over whether cooperation or competition are more likely to fuel success and better outcomes by participants. Cooperation is associated with harmony and a smooth flow of activity, while competition involves trying to outdo or beat others instead of including them in ones own success. In environments where people are not working along but have others around to engage in, individuals tend to lean towards either cooperative tendencies when working with others or competitve tendencies by working against or independent of others.

Success involves an ability to reach a set goal by choosing and executing the necessary steps to accomplish something. Generally, any time a person isn't working alone, it is better to try to work cooperatively with as many people around as possible. Cooperation involves taking other people's thoughts, ideas, and abilities into consideration, and finding a way to integrate these qualities of another person to help work towards success. Cooperation is the basis of teamwork and sportsmanship, both of which are vitally important in a world where we must work with or around others. For example, if someone had to build a house, it makes the most sense to take others into consideration when planning out the resources, time, and effort required to accomplish this. Cooperation in this case would involve choosing resources that do not harmfully impact or cost others, do not interfere with others' work or plans, do not result in more work for others, and allow for the most participants as possible. A cooperative way of building a house would involve using materials appropriate for the environment and budget, working during hours when people aren't sleeping or resting, cleaning up after oneself when finished, and seeking input and assistance from others that want to participate. Projects successfully achieved through cooperation end with people getting to share the celebrating the success with everyone and all people involved. 

While cooperation is a better approach to take when it comes to achieving success, there are some instances or situations where it might be advantageous to tap into one's competitive side. If a person has a goal that needs to be reached completely independent of other people or groups, is it better to compete? Being competitive involves being conscientious of the rate and manner in which someone else is working toward reaching a goal and using the other people's behaviors to determine how to plan and execute a goal. For example, if someone had to build a house and was in competition with others, they might try to use up resources in order to deliberately make less available for others, working during quiet hours or any inconvenient time, infringing on other people's space, leaving a mess behind, and relying only on one's own ideas and skills. All of these things might intefere with what another person nearby is trying to accomplish and while people may be impressed with the outcome, this behavior can lead to resentment from other people in the community. And while achieving success through competition is great for one's self-esteem, the success is usually celebrated alone while others feel the opposite of celebration and instead, loss or underachievement. There are some situations where competition makes the most sense, such as when apply for a job when only one person can fill the position. In this case, including others can prove to be ineffective and harmful to one's own success because someone else succeeding might mean another person losing or missing out.

In conclusion, working cooperatively is the most harmonious and harmless way of achieving success and means that the success can be celebrating with everyone with no one feeling left out or like they have failed. While some situations may call for competition as a more relevant way of working to reach the finish line, in the end, it is always best to choose the least harmful and most considerate route in order to move forward towards accomplishments. In the end, people will have more allies on their side for future endeavors, have a better reputation and respect from others, and be trusted by the community. And it always helps to remember the saying, "Team stands for: Together Everyone Accomplishes More," and more is always best.
