What does it mean to truly be happy? Some people are only happy when they are living their soul purpose. Others may say that they are happy when they have lots of money? Does money equal happiness? 

In this day and age, people tend to get discouraged when they go on social media and see people live a life they think they want for themselves. Society has made us think that we have to live in luxury and have lots of money in order to be successful. Once you get the nice, big house along with a spouse and white picket fence you have "made it." Is that really success?

I don't think so. What good is living in luxury and having everything you ever wanted if you hate what you do in order to get the money TO live in luxury? A person cannot be happy if they are not living their soul purpose. People can put on a front about how they are happy because they make hundreds of thousands or even millions every year. It all comes down to is this really your passion and did you sacrifice your own soul to get there.

If people do something for the happiness of others, that just makes them a people pleaser. Nobody can be happy that way because you are ignoring your own feelings and desires to impress somebody else. You are putting yourself on the shelf while putting somebody else's needs over your own. Anybody would become miserable from doing that. 

When I speak for myself I am absolutely my happiness when I am following my dreams and my own personal goals. I've tried plenty of things just because they were more logical and I quit them every single time. When I pursued things to fit in with everybody else and make other people happy, I was drained and depressed. When I pursue my dreams, it doesn't feel like work because I know I am passionate about it and I know that I was out on Earth to do it. Life is so much easier that way.

All in all, society has wiped away individuality and and made it the norm to be extremely similar to everybody else. That could be a reason that humanity has convinced themselves that they are happy if they are making a certain amount of money. If money solved everything then we wouldn't see rich people still depressed and suicidal as some who are less fortunate. With that being said, getting back to individuality and focusing on our own goals and dreams is the only way to live free and to truly be happy.
