Happiness is someting that every individual on the planet seeks out in some capacity.  There are countless means and avenues that humankind pursues to find happiness.  In the midst of those innumerable means and avenues is the lingering question as to what truly is the best and most effective way to be happy.  What should one do to find it?  There is no question that our service, support, and care of others around us is the most effective path to happiness.

The pursuit of wealth, property, and prosperity does bring satisfaction to an extent to those who are fortunate enough throughout to have such things.  We are painted a picture that having these things will make us happy.  However, many have found that the acquisition of such wealth did not complete them as individuals -- there was something missing.  No matter how much an individual acquires, there will always be an inherent desire to share and give to others, because acheivement and wealth alone do not bring happiness.  Several notable examples in American history are the later-life pursuits of John Rockefeller, Andrew Carnegie, and Bill Gates.  All three were powerhouses in their professional realm, having the money and means to acquire whatever they wanted.  Yet all three realized and identified the need to give back to others through charitable means.  Carnegie pledged nearly his entire fortune to other benefactors, providing finances to construct public buildings like Libraries.  Gates, in a similar manner, through his foundation, has given billions to support the less fortunate around the globe.  At the end of the day, wealth and prosperity mean nothing if there is nobody to share it with - happiness cannot be found through these things.  A person dying alone with their material wealth is not a happy individual, no matter what the claim may be.  In that same vein, but from a religious perspective, Solomon of the Bible claimed that "all is vanity", as the richest man on the planet (if one takes the Bible at face value).  Wealth and power did not satisfy.  Happiness was not found in having all that one could ever desire.  

Is a more self-centered approach to happiness seemingly a logical one?  Certainly.  We all have our own dreams, desires, wants, and needs that we seek out.  People want to be top of their class, or best at their job, or respected in their professional realm.  All of us want personal comforts to some extent.  When we distill those pursuits down, however, there is more than meets the eye.  Why do we look for those things?  Is it just so we can focus on our own well-being, or are we looking for more than that?  The vast majority of individuals have others that depend on them for financial, emotional, or spiritual support.  So much of our lives is about serving others, and we don't even realize it.  People work hard to benefit their families, friends, or loved ones.  We have dreams that involve sharing our lives with others, growing old with a partner of our choice, and so on.  Why?  Happiness isn't found in isolation, it's found by serving others and supporting them.  When we do that, we find our own happiness, our own satisfaction.  Who we help, who we serve, and who we support is what is the most impactful.  

Ultimately, happiness is something that is not found through isolation and self-satisfaction.  We can chase the illusion of it through personal gain, but, as so many in history have proven, we never quite reach that point, no matter what.  Happiness, much like a marriage, is only possible when another is invovled.  It is an emotion, or state of mind that comes from serving others.    
