Success - Everyone wants to acheive it in some form or another. Maybe you want to be successful at your career, at being a good parent, or just succesfully keep your home tidy. Being successful is a great feeling, no matter the way you achieve said success. There are also many ways to acheive success, but the real question is this: Is it better to work with, or against, those who you are trying to achieve success over? Is it better to help a co-worker with a problem that may help them achieve their goals? Or would it be preferable to sabotoge them to better meet your own needs? 

Certainly, working together would be the ideal in most scenarios. There is, afterall, power in numbers. When we work together, as a group, as a species, we can achieve almost anything we put our minds to. From learning how to make fires to making our way to the moon, humans have always relied on one another to achieve success in various aspects of our existence. In addition, working together as a group is seen in many other species as well. Ants will work together to attack a wasp nest, dolphins will work together to get from point A to point B in their travels, even elephants have been shown to work together as a close-knit group. Surely these creatures, who are older than we are as a species, know what they are doing. It seems that evidence would point to cooperation, over competition, as being the most efficient way to achieve success for most tasks. In any case, most people prefer the feeling they get when they help others, and when others help us. 

But what about those situations in which competition IS necessary? I'm sure we've all wanted to win a video game against a peer, earn employee of the month, or get a prestigous award. While certain acheivements certainly seem to be more suited for cooperation, we cannot argue that there are situations in which competition against others is not the best or even the only way to achieve success. Imagine how difficult it would be to win a game of basketball against a competing team if you were more concerned with working with said team, rather than against. You cannot earn employee of the month if you don't compete, even just a little, for your boss's praises and attention. As above, even animals exhibit forms of competition. Predators fighting other predators for food, birds who use their magnificent feathers to attract a mate, male deer fighting other male deer for their place on the social heirarchy. There are just certain situations in which competition is the nature of the game when it comes to success. While winning a game or an award may feel great in the short term, we also have to think about the people on the other side of our success. In compeition, one person must lose, and that is never the ideal situation as all people should be equal.

With these arguments in mind, it may seem conflicted on which is better -  competition, or cooperation? Personally, my answer is that there IS no answer. Whether you achieve success via cooperation or competition largely varies based on the situation. As an intelligent species we have to use our minds to think, reason, and find a resolution to our path of success. Is it better for me to help others and be helped, or to go on this path alone? This greatly varies based on your goals. If your goal is to, say, work your way to the top of your company, you will likely have to endure some competition here and there. Afterall there will be many other people attempting to work their way to the top as well. If your goal, however, is to end human hunger, obviously cooperation will be the only way to achieve success in this situation. 
However, I think the one thing that most people can agree on is that cooperation feels better than competition. It is always a good feeling to know you're helping someone better achieve their goals, and that they are helping you in return. Mutual achievement is always the ideal. Afterall, someone else's success does not necessarily mean that your success will be diminished. Compeition is more stressful, frustrating, and less "feel-good" than simply working together as we always have to solve our problems and succeed at our goals. In addition, studies have shown that cooperation is likely to result in better lasting results. One should ideally use their best ability to cooperate with others before going their own way. 
