The world we live in today is one of ever growing connections. We talk to people on the other side of the planet casually, watch television shows and movies produced all around the world. We hear about distant events and perspectives as casually as our parents and grandparents read the local news. The same changes that give us that window to the world narrow and define our vision, however.

I once saw web 2.0 defined thusly; if you aren't paying for the product, you are the product. There's an undeniable element of truth to that. Your behaviors are recorded, analyzed, and reduced to data. Your every click, view, and sometimes keystroke is recorded and remembered. 

All of that information is used to commoditize you. Even when you seem to be directing your own attention, the frame of the window you're looking through shapes what you see. Algorithms work tirelessly to advertise to you, draw your interest, harvest your clicks and dollars.

Every element of media is now saturated by that new way of doing things. Advertisements are rigorously built to appeal to increasingly finely targeted segments of the population. Appearances by celebrities are planned by brand managers to draw the right attention. Every package and image is pushed through focus groups to make sure it has the right impact. Nothing you see is real, everything is staged. 

Some will argue that ultimately that doesn't matter. We're all rational, thinking beings, after all, capable of making our own decisions. The message maybe tailored, but if you don't like it, you can seek out your own. There are still pockets of unscripted, authentic content everywhere if you just look. The internet is open, and you can make of it and take from it what you will.

That argument ignores the increasing power of the gate keepers, however. What you can find on the internet is determined by Google and Microsoft, who control search. Search optimization and the draw of advertising dollars determine the top of every list. You can read reviews and buy the products you choose, packaging and ads be damned. But how often are the products you even see determined by Amazon or Walmart? How many reviews are real and not paid for?

The end of the local news also ended the era where you could check for yourself whether the information you're consuming is ultimately true. You could always attend you local council meetings for yourself if you didn't trust your local reporter. The time of trusted sources ended with the dominance of the three networks. How do you check on news coming from Ukraine or China? If you find different information elsewhere, how do you know who is telling the truth? 

How much of what you see and know of your friends and even family is shaped by Facebook or Twitter? How much have even personal relationships been twisted and falsified by social media? How many of your most intimate relationships are completely free of the filtering of big Tech?

Today we can see more of the world more easily than ever before, more than people living just a few decades ago could have even imagined. Yet we can trust less of what we see as the power of a few corporations, as the role of the gatekeepers chokes off the freedom that the internet seemed to promise. The world grows more commoditized by the day, and given the success and vast wealth generated by this brave new world, it seems unlikely to change in the near future.
