      People are much more likely to be happy if they focus on their own goals. Happiness is very important in life. Worrying too much about what others have going on, in the long run only drags you down. You cannot be there for someone unless you are there for yourself first. Delaying your own goals can be even more detrimental to your happiness that you may think. 
      Wihtout focusing on your own goals you are much less likely to be happy. By focusing on your own goals you can achieve happiness in many ways. Working toward family, education, and work goals are among the most important of these. If you work toward your educational goals you will most likely be considered for better, higher paying jobs. With a good selection of high paying jobs at your disposal you can find a job that you enjoy that also rewards you well. By doing these two things you are in a much better position to start a family and have them live well. Most people in this world are the happiest when they know that they have been succesful and have a strong family. If you were to ask most of the older population in the United States if they were content they would say that they are very happy, their reasoning for this is that they had a successful younger life and a strong, well off family.  Without working towards these things you are delaying the happiness that is meant for you. 
      Some may say that you cannot be happy unless the people around you are happy, but that is simply not true. If the people around you make you feel unhappy because they are unhappy, then you should not be around them. Surround yourself with positive happy people that can drive you to do and be the same. You matter, you have to focus on personal goals. Once you have completed these goals and you are in the right postition, then you can begin to worry about and help others. 
      In conclusion, putting your goals first can add to your happiness exponentionally. Happiness is one of the keys to a good life. Putting other people first only brings you down. Work toward your goals, become happy and stable and then help who you can. Focus on you, your goals, your education and or job, and your family and you will, most likely, experience great happiness. 
