As children, we are driven by competition in many aspects of our lives. We strive to beat someone on the field or in a classroom spelling bee. We compete for the attention of our parents, our peers, the new girl in school. Competition follows us through high school and into college as we try and outperform peers to achieve what some think is a better chance at getting what we want. As we get older and enter the workplace, competition doesn't go away; it does, however, begin to be slowly replaced by cooperation. We learn the basic framework of cooperation in elementary school, learning to work together to gain a greater good. Cooperation becomes part of group work in high school, part of your lab grade in your Freshman Biology class in college. After graduation and upon starting our first professional job, cooperation becomes the way to achieve more sustainable and permanent accomplishments. Working together is the sign of maturity; cooperation in both the workplace and in our day-to-day lives is an indication of adulthood and the ability to navigate a complicated world. 

Humans are capable of such complex emotions and processing but can often be reduced to primal instincts in the heat of a moment. Competition is the individualistic drive to win, either by defeating someone else or by showing others we are the best at something. This idea is one that is driven by primal instincts to survive, often at the cost of someone else. Cooperation, on the other hand, is shared. It is higher level learning that has allowed humans to adapt and advance our species. Through cooperation, we have been able to achieve monumental progress and change that has affected the world in so many positive ways. Cooperation allows the sharing of knowledge, of good to more than one person. It spreads the wealth around to many.

Some may say that competition is the way to achieve more success because it pits people against each other, driving them to achieve their best. This argument is shortsighted, thought, because it focuses on the individual. Yes, they may gain the highest stature they thought possible, but at what cost? Are they truly achieving greatness if it requires the suppression or loss of others? There is a place for competition in our world but the kind that is good for everyone: when it is rooted in cooperation or fun; when it's a friendly game of basketball or a race to the end of the block, or two teams working together to try and score the most points in a game. Competition, to be healthy, needs to be cooperative.

Cooperation is the way to achieve more success, the kind that lasts and influences everyone. It has been shown again and again that cooperation between two or more parties leads to benefits for all involved. It shows maturity, higher level reasoning and emotion and it benefits more than just one person. 
