Modern society should only be critiziced for its materialistic ways if it becomes a priority over human deceny and human rights. Those who condemn materiality are those who often show resentment toward the development of social media and technology, as well as the growing focus on celebrities and their luxury lifestyles. Of course the phrase "Money can't buy happiness" comes to mind; however I do not truly believe in this statement. Those who do not have the means to be materialistic often stuggle with the obstacles of becoming one who has enough money to spare in order to even consider being materialistic.

Being one who acquires possessions and spends money never seems attainable until the resources are available. It can even be argued that those who simply cannot be materialistic in such lavish ways still dream of being in that world. This can be shown in society's obssession with celebrity reality TV shows and the world of social media. It allows those who have this materialistic nature to show off the items and wealth that they have to others who will never be able to breathe the air that some of those said items occupy. To criticize modern society for wanting to have enough money to spoil themselves and to treat themselves is an idea that seems to come from a place of pride or even jealousy.

To continue this idea of criticism is to stunt the dream of many individuals that this lifestyle is actually attainable through hardwork, networking, and a little bit of luck. I think the disconnect happens when this materialistic lifestyle is being shown by those who have little disregard for "the little guy" or, in other words, those who look up to their material lifestyle. It gives off the impression that once you have those things and that life, you are allowed to put social/human rights issues on the back-burner. But I believe that, for the most part, people are good and mean well whether they have money or not. Being materialistic is not a totally bad thing... until it is allowed by modern society to become one.
