There are so many ways to spend your time in this fast paced world. Some spend it working to get things that they believe show them as an elite or acomplished person. Others prefer to spend time and effort with family and friends. Being materialistic may not always be a bad thing but it has its limits. I dont think people should focus on the material things in life because possessions will not be your friend, you cant take the items with you after your gone, and they may even make you a target. 

I personally think the most important thing is life is family and friends. Sure things are great and its cool to have the newest I phone but at what cost. One must work long hard hours to show they fit in. I would be very dissapointed if anyone I knew thought less of me because I had a cheaper phone or older car. It should be what kind of person or friend I am that matters most.

Possessions are only temporary, they become obsolete fast or the next big thing comes along. Nobody can take these items with them after they die. Why place such value on the items. Besides others are constatly looking to get new cool gadgets even if it means hurting you or stealing them from you. There are constatly warnings from the police about what the next big item is thats being targeted.

Sure its fun to have cool gadgets and fast or luxery cars, I know I can be jealous of my friends that have the newest vehicles with televisions in them and surround sound with big leather seats but my truck will get me from point A to point B the same way. Heck, I might even save a speeding ticket or two by driving my old truck. When I look around I see people staring at their phones not paying attentioin to whats going on around them, even as their kids play. I can tell you for a fact that before I got my smart phone I was a better communicater and had better people skills than I do now.

We should get back to what really matters and that is not material things, it's friends and family. I dont need a single thing to laugh and have a good time with those that I love. I think we should all take a good look at ourselves and think about what is really important to us! I really hope that you find it is people and maybe even pets, not those possessions that you think make you cool.
