I feel like people are more likely to be happy when they focus on the happiness of others. I feel like this would lead to more happiness than people who focus on their own personal goals for several reasons including, making themselves feel better, finding something more meaningful in life, and build relationships.

I feel like people would be happier if they focused on the happiness of others. By focusing on the happiness of others, people can also feel better themselves. They would be more likely to feel happy whatever the outcome may be. People that generally focus only on their own achievements usually only feel happy when they succeed. When they fail, they would often become sad and depressed. Helping others would negate the feelings that would result when people fail to achieve their own goals. People who help others to  be happier will always feel happy at the end because they would be making a difference in other people's lives and make others grateful.

Helping others can increase happiness because it gives a sense of meaning and purpose in life. People who focus on their own goals may not know what they are trying to achieve or feel empty after achieving their goal. Helping others find happiness will help give people a sense of purpose and meaning. This increased sense of purpose and meaning would help people feel like they are actually doing something important and lasting in life. This realization could help make people more happy. Having a sense of purpose in life would prevent people from feeling empty inside and like their lives are meaningless, it would give people more reason to continue to help others and continue to feel good about themselves. This sense of purpose would last forever and wouldn't change or end like people that only focus on their own goals.

Finally, helping others can bring happiness because of the resulting friendships that may arise. People are often time grateful when they receieve help and would often be more willing to open up and make friends. The long term friendships and relationships that may result because of helping others would lead to a more permanent happiness that lasts a life time. These relationships would often increase the happiness of people because they will always have someone to depend and rely on in times of need and have someone that they know will always be there for them. Knowing that someone truly cares about you and is always there for you when needed will make peopel happier in life. Without these relationships, people would often feel alone and miserable in life and that would lead to a decrease in happiness even when they have achieved all of their goals.

This makes me feel like people are happier in life when they seek to help others and seek to increase other's happiness over pioritizing their own happiness based on personal merit. This type of happiness is often times more long lasting and meaningful. This is why I feel like it is better for people to seek out increasing the happiness of others. 
