In my opinion, I think that modern society should absolutely be criticized for being so materliatistic. There were many years that people did not have phones in every home, they grew their own gardens, hunted their own food and survived off of what they had. Now, we go to the nearest fast food joint because we don't want to cook. Or pants ripped, but instead of patching the tiny hole, we throw them out and buy 4 more pairs we probably didn't actually NEED but we wanted.We complain about the rise in prices, yet, there were times the human race survived without access to so much as a heating pad when a woman may experience menstrual pain. I am not saying that we should give everything up, we should not have these things, but we need to appreciate them for what they are. Modenr medicine is a great example, we would not have access to antibiotics and other things to help us if it weren't for money and equipment needed to do so. However, I am suggesting that we could all do with a little less focus on the "things" we have and put more focus and effort on how far we have come as a society. If we cannot appreciate the wind, the sun, the realtionships we have, we would not survive if we lost the materialistic items we do have. Our values have quickly shifted into putting money over time and we lose out on the time with loved ones so we can fixate on making more money. It is scientifically proven that money does not increase happiness. Yet, we keep pushing ourselves in this direction of reciving instant gratification and no lnger put in the time and work unless the outcome makes us more money to buy more things.

Looking back, people hunted animals to provide food, clothing, shelter. Today, there are a lot of people who may not even have the basic knowledge to run a sewing machine let alone stitch a straight line. People had to create their own weapons to hunt down their dinner for the night, yet, today we leave a poor tip because the cook didn't cook your steak to the exact medium rare you requested. We take advantage of these things that long ago others might have dreamed of. Sure, you payed good money for your meal to be prepared how you requested, but 200 years ago, you ate what you caught and you made it work or you went with nothing. Again, I don't say we should all go hunt down a turkey or a squirrel or some other animal, but instead of going to a resturaunt, maybe make a meal at home. Learn to cook a meal the way you like and share it with your family, have them help! The memories will follow you and it will contribute to happier and healthier relationships. We look at the materialistic things we want, how and when we want them, but we don't think of how else we can achieve the same desired outcome. How we could do with a little less hostility over your fancy resturaunt error and a little more low key effort and time into learning a new skill. It will still cost you money, of course, we need money to buy certain things, but why not spend that money on things you can do with others actively rather then indulging your own quest of lazy, instant gratification? It's time to stop priding ourselves on our latest purchase and start priding ourselves in our commitments to being useful, active members of society. 

In conclusion, I think it's important for people to remember how far we have come collectively as a society due to the struggles of those who came before us. We panic when the power goes out, but what about a time before electricity? We are outraged by delay in mail or your phone battery dying and because that's where you are focusing your energy, the material objects become your focus. We did without them long ago, so why are we so stressed if something is not instant? Having all of these things, the instant access, it will cripple us all if ever there is a time that we lose access to these "things" we think we need. As a child, we lost power we would light a candle and play a board game. That was only 15-20 years ago. Today, everyone complains how bored they are. We forget about these little things and quickly our "wants" become our needs. Sure, a phone can be concereded a need. If there is an emergency you need a way to call for help - what you don't need is a shiny 3000 dollar phone because it's the latest thing. Having shiny, new, material possessions isn't what is going to make you happy. Building resiliency, relationships, skills, knowledge- that is the things that will help you be happy and succesful and somewhere down the line I think people forgot about these things and that is why it's so important to criticise and point out the flaw in how we have become as humans. If not, there may come a time the human races ends because they will not be able to survive with the basics and true essentials needed. 
