"Money can't buy happiness," is a common phrase that's easy to casually say but is it even true or relevant? In our modern society materialistic and monitary goals and the driving factor for all growth, both as individuals and communities. The phrase "money can't buy happiness" is overly simplified and leaves no room for discussion, critizism or deep thought about the value of materialism in our modern world. 

If society wasn't pushed by materialistic goals inovation would not be a common ideal. Those without, want, and those with want more, it's what has pushed society as a whole from small hunter-gatherer tribes to the major environmental shaping and future planning powerhouse we currently are.  Critizing a materialistic society for the pitfalls of Man's Hubris discards the fact that we created society and phrases like "money can't buy happiness" are nothing more than small self assurances we say to ourselves to make us feel better.

Being materialistic as a society in general pushes us to strive for invation to create bigger ideas, better products, and more comfortable lives. The want for money, goods and services motivates the individual to provide worth for the group and in return as a group accomplishing this raises the comfort of the individual in an ideal society. 

There can be a bad side to hyper materialism but as a whole modern society shouldn't be criticized for this as it's nothing more than the combinations of individuals making the choice to create that society. Money can buy happiness, but it can't always buy "your" happiness directly. Even though we don't live in an ideal society materialism is not the cause of dispare but it does shine a light on the darker aspects we need to tackle. 

The individual should seek to grow and help the group and the group seek to uplift the individual. If balanced that would create the ideal society. The materialism that drives us to grow and expand is a vehicle to the ideal society we want, we just need to make sure we pilot it to the correct destination.

