We see it all throughout culture, in business, in sports, in media. Competition is valorized within America and much of the world. However, how much does competition help to create long term sucess? Though we live in a world that prioritizes competition, I believe there is much to be gained through co-operation.  

I think the best example of how co-operation has led to more sucess than competition is the different social movements of the last few centuries. For example, the push of the labor movement in the 1800s made our lives livable through co-operative protest and striking. Without the push of the union movement, things we take for granted like weekends and living wages would not be possible. It is very similar when you look at the gay rights, womens rights, and civil rights movements. Though these groups did not all have the same tactics, all of collective action within these social movements led to benefits for both the marginalized and for the broader society. 

The civil rights movement allowed for the development of welfare and medical systems that benefit the poor of all races and ethnicities,  for example because it drew a critical eye on to the social system of it's time. If social movements fell to power struggle and infighting (which they sometimes do) no meaningful sucess occurs, but often leads to failure. Take the Rainbow Coalition of the 1960s. Made up of the Black Panthers, Latino gangs turned social activists, Applachian socialists, and immigrants, the Rainbow Coalition strived for civil rights in an inclusive and radical way. 

We see within our modern politics that competition often leads to deadlock and vitrol, exacerbated when there is little to no common ground for the co-operation betweens. We see this in the brinksmanship and competition that leads to sluggish and deadly response to the recent COVID-19 pandemic for one example. So often competition, especially on a large scale, can backfire and hurt many more people than it helps.  

Even religions, still the bedrock of our society, encourgage ethics and community as fundemental to life. Even the way people pray reflects the importance of co-operation as part of life. Though many pray and involve themselves in religion individually, religion flourishes as a community. In religions such as Judaism, certain prayers cannot be done with a minimum of ten individuals, such as the Mourner's Kaddish. One cannot grieve without a communal, co-operative approach. Religions like Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, and many others have an ethical focus on community and co-operation. Monotheism gave rise to the "Golden Rule" which all basically say to treat others how you would like to be treated, which as least theoretically, lays the groundwork for friendship and cooperation between relgious adherents. 

Though competition is important, I believe long-term sucess can be garnered much more through co-opertation. Throughout the history of humanity, meaningful positive change has almost always been caused by the co-operation of sometimes disparate groups that share a common goal. Instead of fighting against one another, co-operating has allowed us to flourish and allowed ideas to spread. 
