       Materialism is something we all want to consider it to be the best option for us, but in reality it is not. The more things we consume on daily basis and the energy we put in to gain these things is out of this world. The amount of money we spend in our daily lives is endless. I myself spend more than I need to just like my average neighbor across the street or across the world. It actually a vital source, but also a dangerous source depending on how intense you get. 
  For instance, buying expensive houses, cars, or top of the line hand bags that seem to be the new face now in life amongst our wealthy people. Whereas the average person must work to gain these things or even dream of having these things in life. These possessions sometimes take over our souls, because they are so much of wanting to fill that happiness in our lives that we miss. It is not by chance that we all go through this stage, but its modern life. For myself, I enjoy nicer things and I work myself to get them to show that sometimes I can take on the world. 
   I am not sure if that's a good thing or bad thing. I also know that I am not the only one that thinks like this. There are probably some people that would say no to spending amount of money on such things, because their goal is to save for later. Goal saving is not bad at all, cause I agree with it. I also agree that material items can be only for a season and not last long as I have been told by friends. They always tell me to find true happiness and not be so materialistic. I know there are others in the world believe this theory as well and actually practice it. 
   Although, materials are nice to have and seem to feel that void, but the facts remain whether is it love or hate. I only say this because love and hate are two different things when it becomes to someone that is materialistic. We can love it for a minute and then hate it the next. Also, not caring how much we spent on it at the time, cause we don't want it anymore. Or is tore, cut, or the color is gone from it. There is a lot of what the modern society consists this to be not vital for everyday life. 
   Finally, whether you are in the modern world or the new world as some call it materialism will always be vital to some degree. It it just what do you for yourself and how much energy you want to put into it. Honestly, criticizing is going to come because people have made it so much a focus in their life to have the best and not the worst. This is where truly the love and hate relationship plays a role in whether you want to be a part of that group. Let's face it the more stuff you dream of having, wanting, or justifying to keep can over take people in time. Time will only tell in that moment whether to buy or not. 
     

