I personally think imagies and impression can have too much of an effect on people. It is easy for companies to create a colorful packaging of their product that will catch the intended consumers eye. I have been a victim of this myself many times over the year. I see something that looks really cool, and I tell myself that product will match what is on the packaging and I buy it. Often this is a bad idea. In the recent years I have taken up a different approach and actually read reviews before I buy anything but I don't think most people do that. I can't blame the ones who bahves this way since I did it myself though. I think companies are tapping into attemtempting to wow is with how colorful and eyecatching they can convey their products and it works. Unfortunately most people do not want to take the extra time to research the products they are being drawn to, and I think this is causing a lot of disappointment and frustration among the common consuumer. I think people need to learn to be more patient before they purchase anything just based on what the box of the items is showing. 

We have become too quick in trying to quench our thirst for new products that we percieve are important to us or will make our lives better. We need to learn to patient, and really do the research before purchasing anything. This will force the companies making the products to be more focused on quality of the product, and not just the advertizement. 

A recent example is how Samsung just released the firts Quantum Dot OLED television. Reviewers and consumers are being wowed by the excellent out of the box picture quality of the TV but when they start to dig deeper, they are finding all sorts of issues that weren't initially addressed at first. I am sure Samsung purposely did this to make the most sales as possible before consumer started figuring out that there were some fairly big issues with the TV when you used it, and I think this is a great example of how people were being drawn to the initial wow factor of the TV and got really exited about it instantly. 

We can also apply this to the political world. They are all about making an impression their potential voter base. They will say anything and promise anything to get people to vote for them but when they get elected they rarely change anything anyway. It is all a big theater of who can outdo the other person, and essentially be the best at fooling the regular voters. 

In conclustion, I think that we are absolutely too focused on what the "package" presents to us without actually taking the time to do some research before we go all in. We are all too relient on our need for instant gratification instead of focusing on what we actually need. 
