Happiness is a noun, found in the dictionary to refer to, "a state of happiness". But what defines happiness? How does one define themself as happy? Of course its obejectable but how do you find it? Some find it by acheiving their life long goals, catching that huge bass they've always dreamed of, saving money, or even by checking off things on a "to-do" list. However, from my personal experience, I believe and have witnessed how finding happiness in other's happiness,is life long and more fulfilling than anything I could accomplish for myself.

I remember when I was in high school, I craved for something that would fill a void I had regarding my own happiness. I was always taught how to be selfless, however, I found myself constantly searching for ways to do so. I joined my local rescue squad in hopes that my dreams of working in the medical field would begin with this stepping stone. I recall the first EMS call I ran. Every detail about it. At the end of my shift, I felt for the first time in my life as if I had found a way to serve others and do good. To put someone else's needs above my own. I for the first time in my life felt I served a purpose and answered a calling that benefited others. Since then, I strive to serve others. It brings me great joy to see that I potentially had a positive effect on someone else's life.

I truly believe as humans we deep down have a desire to see other's happy. Being surrounded by other's that are happy is uplifting, inspiring, and brings a community type feeling. In today's society especially where it feels as if we are more divided than ever, if people would put their differences aside, and look to make a positve impact on someone else's life with just a simple and kind gesture or assistance of some kind, it brings happiness not only to the individuals you impact, but yourself as well.

Some may argue that if we as individuals only concentrate on the happiness of others, than we can not acknowledge the state and wellbeing of our own happiness. While I understand and agree to an extent, I believe just like in every other aspect of life, balance is neccissary. You can not be completly selfless, there are times where it is acceptable to be selfish and take care of yourself and your family above other people. However, I believe if you are in a position to make a difference, or bring a smile to someone else, use that opportunity!

In conclusion, I believe true happiness is based off of goals you set for yourself, and the impact you have on others at the same time. Life is busy, unpredicatble, and wild at times but, we are all human and have the capability at some point in our lives to make a difference in someone else's life. Most of the time, those impacts will bring happiness to ourselves as well.
