What is happiness? Some believe we are trained from early in life to develop and mold our talents so that we can help other people, while others think it's perfectly fine to focus on one's own satisfaction, emotional and spiritual growth, and success in society and in life. Happiness can also be a mixture of the two. 
Most people in the world are groomed and directed to be a productive member of their society, their community, or to at least not be a heavy burden on those around them. There are a few who know they don't have to worry about having to depend on people around them for security and advancement, such as millionaires' families, totalitarian government officials' relatives, etc., though these are not necessarily exclusive. They have the wealth and power in place already, and can do whatever they want; it's assumed they find happiness without obstacles that other, ordinary people, encounter and deal with. The rest of us go to school, get jobs, and form associations so we may have a solid foundation on wich to explore talents, personal interests and/or pursuits. 
Going back to the assumed dichotomy that happiness is either found doing things for oneself, or doing things for others, many people spend their formative and young adult years building skills, knowledge and friendships with the goal of having a meaningful career. This life course could be self-serving, for example being a world-renouned video gaming prodigy. It could be totally altruistic, being a nun in a poor community in India, helping the sick and underpriveleged. Many of us, consciously or without intent, do a combination of these, becoming a teacher because they love developing young minds and sharing knowledge while helping each child they teach, or being an emergency room nurse, going above and beyond the "job duties" of a nurse to help save lives and lessen human suffering. It's impossible to say that a person only does one or the other to increase their happiness; humans interact with other humans, and every single person has an effect on at least one other person, whether they mean to or not. 
I wrote what I wanted to write, and got done with 13 minutes to spare. I'm just keeping the screen active, because I don't want to lose my opportunity for payment. 
