Have we become too dependent on social media and other influencers when deciding what we need or how we should look to be socially accepted or considered successful? Social medias have become such a large part of daily life over the past decade many can't seem to function without it; this includes people of all ages and backgrounds.  Many influencers do reviews only as a way to make money or endorsements.  Of course, who wouldn't want to make money?  I too do my share of on-line shopping, browsing and social media strolling, but I do not believe everything I hear or read.  My favorite example of the marketing trend is "go organic." When I say favorite I mean my favorite to try to discourage people from buying into.
     
When I learned the definition of organic, it meant a plant or animal which grew, matured, reproduced, then died and was decomposable.  However, it today's marketing strategies it seems to mean something produced in a lab or with special processes.  Let me use lettuce as an example.  Lettuce is organic; all lettuce.  I do understand the point made about no use of pesticides or artificial fertilizers, but many "natural pesticides and fertilizers produce the same chemistry as the artificial ones! And again, lettuce is still lettuce.  It still grows, matures, reproduces and dies all the same.  Paying near double price for something because it is labeled organic is just ridiculous.  The cheaper version or non-organic version and organic version are essentially the same thing. They are both organic lettuce!  Another example I would use is chicken.  I have personally raised backyard chickens for my entire life.  Some are free range while other are kept in coups.  Having eaten the eggs and meat from both, I can assure you, they taste the same, smell the same, cook the same and mature the same.

I truly hope Americans will open their eyes and see they are being dooped by marketing companies with the only goal of making a profit.  The fancy wording and advertisement is all just a means to increase sales.  People need to stop believing everything the hear on TV or social media and do a bit of research and remember what they have been taught by academia. While influencers are entertaining and many do give useful and accurate information, I encourage people to think for oneself and rely on more than one source before buying into all ones favorite influencers is selling.  I for one have begun limiting the amount of time I'm online and on social media.
