There is no doubt that the realm of social media has significantly changed the way we as a society view one another. The question that this change then begs is whether our new view of others and ourselves has negative consequences. I am going to look at this question through the lens of social interaction as well as product or company engagement, because the two areas do not have the same impacts.

Turning to first to product or company engagement, let's consider the example of technology. A company like Apple profits heavily off of aesthetics. They have released a number of products in different colors and are able to charge extra for these designs. For example, their latest Apple watch functions in essentially the same way as the previous version. There may be a few minor software updates, but the average user would likely have the same experience with either version. However, because they are offering more aesthetically pleasing versions of the watch and charging more for these designs, they are profiting primarily off of aesthetic preferences. In fact, much of Apple's business model and consumer base revolves around the look of the products just as much as, if not more than, their functionality. It is difficult to say whether this design-centered model is negative, because some people do value aesthetics in their products over what they can do internally.

This potential value of design over substance leads to the social side of the issue. People are often judged based on their aesthetics, either by the look of the products they own or the look of the individuals themselves. Especially where celebrities are concerned, onlookers determine whether they like or dislike someone based on how they look or the products and brands they with which they are affiliated. At the personal level, this could be problematic. If I only know the woman who frequents my job by the purse that she carries and judge her based on this single observation, then I have failed to make a human connection in favor of my impression of her. However, since I cannot know a celebrity for anything more than my observations of them, I have little choice but to let my impressions color my opinion of them. 

Whether or not image-based impression are harmful depends largely on the subject being observed. Assuming things about the average person on the basis of physical impressions leads to false narratives about a person's character or identity that can be damaging to one's sense of community and ability to engage geniunely with others. However, preferring style over substance in products or in celebrities, who to onlookers have become consumable in the same way, is merely a harmless, victimless choice.
