In the United States, the pursuit of happiness is a human right. This is not to be infringed upon. However, what does the pursuit of happiness entail? For some it means focusing on their career and for others it means being as charitable as possible.  Where is the line drawn between self-care and being generous? Most often it seems that people are most happy when they focus on the happiness of others. 

Humans are social creatures and helping others makes us feel fulfilled.  This can come in many forms. Whether it's something direct, such as being a doctor who donates much of their salary to charity, or something more abstract such as fixing potholes in the road so you know others won't wreck, it helps to know that whatever you do in life will have a positive impact on others.  It's not just whatever career you choose that affects the impact you have on others of course.  Small courtesies such as helping someone who's lost or returning shopping carts can also serve as a source of happiness.  Knowing that you positively affected someone else is one of the greatest feelings in this world.  It keeps you grounded, and aware that everyone you meet is struggling with their own problems. 

It may not directly benefit you to be kind to others. After all, why not just take a high paying job that benefits you more than some low paying job that might help others?  This mindset is understandable, but it really isn't that healthy. Sure, not everything you do has to be selfless. Only looking out for yourself will ultimately lead to a lack of sympathy and the status quo never changing. In our society there are many who only care about themselves.  These are the people who make society worse.  As long as they get their benefits they don't care what happens to others.  Politicians who want donations and say whatever will get them votes.  Fossil fuel moguls who will damage the environment for a quick buck.  Managers who will pay their employees starvation wages to pocket some more money.  People who only look out for themselves are the source of most problems in the world. If more people had sympathy and tried to make a positive impact, we would be much happier as a species.  

Overall, it is important to focus on your own goals. However, make sure to not get blinded by greed and only living for yourself.  Being kind and focusing on making others happy should always be a goal in one's life. 
