People are more likely to be happy if they focus on the happiness of others because this, in turn, will allow them to achieve their goals. The development of strong, interpersonal relationships is the key to happiness and you will almost always get back more than what you put in. When an individual thinks beyond themselves and works toward the greater good, they are helping others and helping themselves at the same time. This is evident when you give back to your community and work toward the goal of making the world a more caring place. Two ways in which I give back to my community are volunteering at a local food pantry and donating blood every eight weeks. 

I started volunteering at the food pantry at the start of 2019 with my husband and our two boys. We work at the pantry at least once per month and do everything from sorting boxes of food, organizing fresh and frozen items, paperwork, and serving the families who visit the pantry. We work for three hours each shift and it is humbling to help families in our communities. They are incredibly grateful for the resources we provide and thankful for the many donations the food pantry receives above and beyond the government-subsidized food. We have also been able to keep our own grocery bill down through the food pantry's donations to the volunteers. Many of the donated breads, dairy products, and fresh produce will be thrown away and volunteers are encouraged to stock their own shelves with these items before leaving for the day.

Donating blood has been another way that I give back to the community. My husband and I attend a local blood drive every eight weeks. A shortage of blood is a major issue in our region and people who are able to donate are encouraged to do so. Small incentives are provided for donors and the Red Cross makes the donation process easy and as efficient as possible. We love the community that we experience at local blood drives or at the blood donation center. Our blood is tracked and we receive email updates as to where the donation eventually helped. It is an amazing feeling knowing that you likely helped to save someone's life and will continue to do so as you donate in the future. 

Focusing on helping others and making their lives easier has increased my own personal happiness in so many ways. I volunteer at the food pantry and donate blood with the goal of helping others which boosts my own level of happiness as well. It is an increasible feeling knowing that you can help a family eat or you can help their loved one through a surgery or even to survive. Often times, you do not know the details or the ending of a situation. However, I can trust that the efforts I make along the way will help others in both big and small ways. The key with finding your own happiness is to not make this the focus. If you focus on helping others, your happiness will be one of the unexpected discoveries that will become apparent along the way. 
