Yesterday, I opened my instagram and saw a beautiful influencer posting a beauty product. She looked so pretty and she showed me how to use the product and how the product enhanced her natural beauty more. Then she explained about other benefits of the product. She made the product looks so interesting and nice. I have been following her for months. I love seeing her photos and her family. I wonder how a mom of 2 kids can still have the perfect body and skin. Meanwhile, I can't hardly find a time to brush my hair. 

I see more and more influencers advertising the products and this has become a very successful advertisement. They made it as if the influencer really use the product in their life. I bet they might have done something else to their skin or use a more expensive product in real life. I still remembered one time there was an influencer who posted that she used the product but then forgot to mention that it was a paid advertisement and then she received backlash from her followers. Some of them felt cheated and felt the person was being untrustworthy. Those review might be biased because it was paid by the company and her followers should have the right to know about it. 

I am totally fine with those influencers because I think they are a cheaper version of advertisement but they still need to be truthful. Some people just see them as beautiful people and believe whatever they say. Some influencers made reviews about a product that they don't know about and doesn't care if the product is harmful or contain harmful ingredients. It is their responsibilty to be knowledgeable of the products as well. They need to be hold accountable because some of the followers just blindly follow what they say. 

We need to be careful and think about those products before buying it. Social media is not a real world and some people just have fake lives in there. Buyers and followers should always be aware of false advertisement. All those photos can be fake and photoshopped. Sometimes they appear so happy or have a joyful life and that makes people envy them or just want to be like them. But for some people, that might not be the case. They can have beautiful pictures, nice body and a perfect life but that is just in social media.

I think first of all,  we should be grateful for our life. Don't compare our life to others and just be content. Comparison is the first way to an unsatisfied life. And of course, we should be ready to evaluate every other things in our social media. Practice good judgement as well and you will find that your life or your appearance is as good as those influencers, or probably even better. 
