Sometimes I think about the stories I was told as a small child.  I think about how one of the first things we learn in social situations is to "get along" with our friends and peers.  It isn't nice to take things from others and to be "competitive".  At what point does the change from cooperation to competitiveness become acceptable?  During little league or after grade school or somewhere in between?  Which way is the "best" way to achieve greatness?  I think that cooperation, in the long run, can result in relationships that help us in our achievements and accomplishments.

I believe cooperation is the best way to achieve this for many reasons.  When cooperative relationships are healthy, there ultimately comes a certain level of healthy competiveness that results in a a strive to succeed and to have your cooperative team succeed as well.  If I found a good fishing spot, why not share with a team in order to provide the best results?  The world is complex, of course, and so individual success is much difffent than the chance to have the success of many. Cooperative success and victory.

Another reason I feel that cooperation is the best method is because rivalries that are too intense can ultimately result in failure in extremely competent people.  It is not always fair to have the most competitive person achieve a goal over another simply due to their nature and that they have more of a cooperative personality.  People with more of a competitive nature are less likely to care about lasting accomplishments of significance than their counterparts.

Maybe they were right when they taught us as toddlers?  I believe that cooperative people are more likely to care about producing lasting accomplishments that are better for the greater amount of people.  I think it allows more people to be successful rather than a minor few.  The world is complex, of course, and so individual success is much different than the success of many.   In conclusion, i feel like competition results in success for the few while cooperation results in success for the greater amount of people.


