The world around us is filled with many things to stimulate our senses. This is intentional and often used as a means for selling products or generating interest in public figures. The way things are pacakged and presented does have a quantifiable effect on people which can be calculated by profits. 

As humans, we evolved from primates to not just survive, but to live. Using our eyes and our vision was valuable in our evolution to search for predators, find shelter, and gather or hunt for food. All of these outcomes produced a reward which helped humans to survive and evolve. In modern days, we are less dependent on our vision for survival but still seek rewards in all of our behaviors. With marketing and the way products are presented visually, we have come to look for things in order to get a positive feeling. 

The corporate world has a main goal which is to maximize profits. In order to accomplish this, companies have spent decades learning how to best market products, sell services, and generate interest in the hopes of making money. As companies have grown, they are able to put more investment into researching how to use appearances to generate more profit. As such, professionals at most companies use psychology and evolutionary biology to manipulate consumers into using and purchasing their products and services.

While companies use this strategy to sell products, people are also motivated by self improvement and self fulfillment. There will always be people that do not fall for the products with clever advertising or for packages that disguise the practicality of their product. Especially now, with access to so much information, even if our first instinct is to be motivated to purchase something because it looks good or to see a public figure as positive, we can now seek more information to counter our instincts.

As humans in the world, we are constantly stimulated by the world around us. While companies and other industries use how things appear to sell their product, service, or image, we have to take in the information visually but then process the information cognitively. We are impressionable and marketing has developed to take advantage of this tendency. So while initially, we do feel the effects of images and impressions and this impacts our behavior, we can and probably should be more aware of this to be able to make rational decisions and not just react the way we might want to because of our instincts.
