In today's society, images and impressions have too much of an effect on many people. They make people feel a certain way personally and outwardly. Those feelings and beliefs shape who we are and thus our society, often times incorrectly. 
We live in a world where being skinny is seen a certain way versus not being skinny. When we see skinny people it gives us less self worth. It can also make us have ugly feelings towards non-skinny people. A person's worth is not measured by their size. There are plenty of horribly skinny people and wonderful non-skinny people.
Our impressions of people change how we see them. If we think they are smart we might treat them one way and if we think they are beautiful we might treat them another. Society has created this values that we are suppose to follow all based off of misconceptions of people. We all have bad impressions put on upon ourselves but that doesn't mean that is who we are; that may have just been a bad day.
If we are living our lives based off of false images and impressions we are creating expectations for ourselves that aren't attainable, which creates negative feelings in ourselves and others. We are essentially setting ourselves up for failure and unhappy existances. We need to follow the FACTS, and try to seperate what is perceived through images, impressions and perceptions, and what is REAL. If we can do that and understand that images and impressions aren't the be all end all, then we can create existances for ourselves and society that are more attainable, and peaceful. 
Cutting through the bull-shit that is images and impressions being too much of an effect on people is hard because people and companies that reap the benefits make sure of that. If money is involved, and in this society it always is, people will make it very hard for you to know when images are deceiving and let's be real - they almost always are. Society wants us to be impressionable idiots because that's how other selfish idiots make money and stay in power.
I believe the proof of people being too impressionable over images can be found in statistics and facts in regards to social media and how this is mentally not good for people. If we weren't being effected by social medial images we wouldn't all be trying to be skinnier, or keep up with the Joneses, or look like we live more fabulous lives than we really do. These have horribly negative effects on people as statistics show. They can cause eating disorders and body dismorphia, suicide, hateful people, economical issues, and a mirade of negative effects. Honestly, there is nothing good about social media - it just creates stupid peope who think everyone has it better than them.
In conclusion, images and impressions absolutely have too much effect on people but it will continue to be hard to get around or over that because society wants it that way for money and power, social media absolutely keeps us bond to this negative logic, and as long as we stay this way humans will never evolve into better creatures. 
