As an American, The Declaration of Independence guarantees me the right to pursue happiness. However, this document does not come with a blueprint or a how-to manual. Some people believe happiness can be best achieved by pursuing goals that are of interest to them, while others believe true happiness will be achieved when you pursue goals that make others happy or help humanity.

I am not an expert when it comes to achieving happiness. My personal experiences have led me to believe that pursuing my own dreams and goals leads to my own happiness. No one is happy all the time, but we can learn to find happiness through our own achievements. For example, when I graduated from college I was happy because I had fulfilled an important goal I set for myself. When I went further and got a master's degree, I was even happier because I proved to myself that I could study, work hard and do the things I promised myself I would. I also graduated with an "A" average in every class I took. It felt good to do this and made me happy.

On a more personal note, the relationships I have in my life mean a great deal to me. Being with my husband brings me a happiness I never thought I would find. Over the years I've come to realize how important relationships are and how they lead to happiness. I work hard to keep my relationships healthy. In this context, I'm not doing things just for myself, but making sure others are happy around me. This also brings me joy.

Understanding what drives you and makes you happy is important. I have found this is best achieved through deep introspection. Not everyone has the capacity to be honest with themselves, but knowing yourself is the best way to understand what drives you. This in turn will bring you happiness and help you pursue things that truly resonate with you. Pursuing goals that help others and focusing on their happiness instead of your own may very well be more rewarding in the long run. I don't claim to be a selfless individual, but I do think helping others and being kind brings its own rewards and contributes to happiness. 

Everyone's definition of happiness is different. There isn't only one way to achieve happiness, just as there isn't only one way to achieve your goals. Maybe helping someone else will help you achieve a goal of your own along the way. It is up to every individual to figure out what makes them happy. No one else can do that for you. Try following your own goals and helping others, then see which one makes you happier.
