Many people would say they have a competitive spirit. Whether it's rooting for their favorite sports team, cheering on their favorite contestants in a reality show, or competing against other candidates for a jobs, people are motivated and entertained by competition. However, in such a competitive society like the United States, competition can often leave people feeling exhausted, incompetent, and uninspired. Cooperation exists in contrast to competition and offers an alternative form of relating to others that benefits everyone rather than those who are most succesful. While competition may lead to great success for few individuals, a society structured around cooperation will certainly lead to a more succesful population overall.
Many in favor of a more competitive society state that competition breeds innovation; they believe that the challenge of outperforming others can push individuals to train harder or craft more creative more solutions to their problems. However, a collaborative environment can produce these results just as well without forcing someone to be the loser in the situation. For example, let's take two rival tech companies Apple and Microsoft. Both are known for their innovative designs and are certainly the most popular tech companies in the US. Even though these companies might be driven to create because of competition, it is in fact the cooperation between employess within the company that ultimately leads to these innovative designs. The same is true within team sports. Even though many of the atheletes may be driven by their competitive spirit, it is only through cooperation with their teammates that a football team can win the Superbowl or a basketball team the NBA finals.
While these are specific examples, this trend can be extended to any workplace or school where a competitive spirit is usually seen as an asset. When competition becomes someone's motivating force, they are more likely to isolate themselves from outside opinions. However, no one is perfect and by focusing so much on their own ideas, the likelihood for errors increases dramatically. On the other hand, in a collaborative working environment, everyone is able to use their greatest strengths to work towards a common goals. Employees can make up for their coworkers' weaknesses and being able to synthesize ideas from everyone will likely leas to more creative solutions overall. Not only will this lead to greater success for the company, but the average individual will certainly feel more succesful knowing that their contribution directly helped on the project.
Ultimately, while competition can be a useful motivating force, it cannot be the primary driver of success. Collaboration is much more useful as a tool for innovation and for making everyone feel like a worthy participant in their work environment. If people were more focused on working together rather than getting their own way, it is very likely that the average person would be much happier and the number of problems in society would decrease.
