When people think about the happiest they have ever been in their life, a multitude of responses may come to mind. Perhaps they envision their wedding day, the birth of a child, or finally receiving the degree they've been working so hard towards. For others, happiness may be a moment of stillness in nature or a particularly fond memory from a vacation. Though individual moments experienced ourselves may lead to happy memories, focusing on the happiness of others and improving our world is the key to deriving true happiness from life. 

Volunteering is often cited as one of the most rewarding things a person can do with their time. Even though it is an act that usually provides no benefit to the volunteer, many people leave a volunteer event feeling happy and satisified. Humans are social creatures and we like to help each other out. Making someone's day better, even just through a compliment or an act of kindness, can go a long way in improving your mood for that day. Compiled over time, these acts can generate true and deep happiness. 

Love is another driving force that demonstrates that a person can feel happiness by focusing on others' happiness. In particular, parents often make sacrifices or go out of their way to bring happiness to their child. Seeing their family flourish, even despite the sacrifices and challenges, brings true joy to parents all across the world. Perhaps working hard for an extra shift is taxing to an individual, but the reward when they see their child's face light up after opening a gift they purchased with the extra money can make the parent determine it was all worth it.  Indeed, most parents would agree that they want their children to lead a better life than they did and will work hard to make that happen. They can derive happiness from seeing their child's success. 

It is certainly true that personal accomplishments can generate a lot of happiness for an individual. Receiving a promotion at work after going above and beyond for a project, for example, is happiness derived by focusing solely on personal goals. These accomplishments alone, however, are not enough to generate true happiness. Many people have mid-life crises because they have achieved all of their goals, such as getting a job, getting married, buying a house, and having children, yet they feel unfulfilled in their life. True happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others, which can manifest itself in a number of ways, some of which can be accomplished via personal goals as well. It does not always have to be volunteerism, but even generating a welcoming and inclusive community, joining a club and helping plan events, or coaching a kids' sport league can be ways that individuals can find happiness by focusing on others.

While humans may be selfish in nature at times, some of the most rewarding jobs are the ones most focused on helping people. For every investment banker or well-paid executive who is focused solely on climbing the corporate ladder, there is a nurse, a fire fighter or a teacher who got into their field solely for purpose of helping others. Though these jobs are often not as high-paying as others, many people continue to pursue them because it can be very fulfilling to help people. 

Ultimately, we live in the world we create. If everyone person focused solely on their happiness, our society would cease to function as it exists today. Working towards the happiness of others through the likes of volunteering, raising children and generosity ultimately provides happiness to that individual. Spreading happiness, not just generating it for oneself, increases the happiness that one can feel in their life. A life will lived often involves leaving a lasting impacts on others, near and far. If we all lived with that philosophy, our world would be a much kinder place to live. 
