     What is happiness? Is it the receiving of gifts, like a child at Christmas? Or is it the giving of gifts, like a parent at Christmas?  I believe it is the latter. I believe a child would tell you that it is the receiving of things, but as a parent, I can tell you that I have been much happier in my life when I have been on the giving end.  
     Whether you are giving something to your child or to a total stranger, the feeling that you get when you give is a satisfying, and yes, happy feeling.  I worked in an office, sending people to collections for not paying their medical bills. I was getting paid for this, so I thought I was happy, but the work was not satisfying.  Because I was not happy in my daily job, I was not good at volunteering my time, which meant I was not giving to others at all.   A few years ago, I began working as a para in a Catholic school for 3rd and 4th graders.  My job is to give extra help to kids who struggle academically.  Every single time a child is successful because of the guidance I am able to give them, it feels like Christmas morning to me.  This is the most rewarding thing I have ever done.  I can now say that I am truly happy in my job, not because I am getting paid, but because I am helping others. This happiness in my job carries over to my family life, I am happier and therefore more willing to give at home as well. 
     I understand why some people believe that setting goals for themselves and reaching them is true happiness, and I believe this does play a part in someone's happiness.  If you do not feel good about yourself and who you are, then it will be difficult to help others.  For that reason, I think that people should definitely take care of themselves and attempt to reach their goals in life.  Taking care of your own needs is important so that you are able to be there for others.  Because of my own experiences in life, I am convinced that true happiness comes from helping others, not from reaching my own goals.  
     While I will admit I still like to receive gifts at Christmas, my true happiness has come from the gifts that I am able to give. I am extremely happy for myself and for those who I am able to help.  I am also extremely grateful that I was able to figure this out. 
