We live in a society in which everything around us has been designed to influence our thoughts and opinions. Almost everything we encounter has been carefully thought out to make us act or feel a certain way. Commonly, this is done by curating the appearance of a person or product in some kind of media, and these curated images may have too strong of an impact on people. 

We are constantly being shown carefully constructed images or presentations of influential people, and the artificial nature of this curation leads to these images and impressions have a strong, negative impact on people. For example, a person may encounter a post from a familiar celebrity on a social media site, and the post has been specifically designed to both feature a product and appear as though the post could have been created by the celebrity themself. The person viewing it is unable to tell that the post was created by an entire team who planned every aspect of the post and ensured that it looked at perfect as possible while also looking effortless. This mismatch between perceived effort and actual effort may lead the person to create a false sense of equivalency between themself and the celebrity and cause the person to view the celebrity and the featured product more positively based on this inaccurate information. People may also more firmly adopt unsupported or harmful beliefs because they see these beliefs represented in these disingenuous images. 

While these curated posts have a strong effect on viewers based on false perceptions of the images, these posts are not always going to harm the consumer. The people targeted by these posts may be making decisions based on incomplete or inaccurate information, but they may find genuine enjoyment from the decisions made after seeing these crafted images. These images and impressions may have the potential to have strong, negative impacts on people, but they still have the potential to bring happiness and enjoyment to peoples' lives. 
