Today I am to touch on the topic of happiness and what obtaining that involves. Does happiness come from within by persuing ones dreams or is it attained by helping humanity or loved ones acheive their goals instead? 

I believe that happiness can be attained by an even mix of pleasing oneself by attaining personal goals and giving charitibly to others or helping them acheive their goals. The following is why I believe you can't honestly be happy in totality if you do not have the opportunity to do both. 

Imagine you have won the lottery or some great invention or business venture has left you a multi-millionaire in a very short time. Now if you came from a background of total poverty as a child as I did, you would probably be  initially overwhelmed with joy! You would go on vacation, buy everything you ever needed and everything you ever wanted! But then as you drive your lamborgini down Sunset, you see hundreds of poor people living in a dystopic  hell of tent encampments. You look at a woman your same age full of potential sitting under the freeway. She is without hope, without luck, without shoes. You can't just see this everyday and not do something without the guilt consuming you. So even though you now have it all yourself, you know it is time you invest in projects or individuals.  You start up a foundation to help impovershed people succeed and stand on their own two feet. You now feel complete. You started with nothing and now have everything. You help others do the same. If you had not done this, you would probably have all this money and still feel empty. 

We need a greater purpose in life. The old saying is true "Money can't by happiness". But of course neither does poverty. Imagine the reverse and you constantly help all your friends and family with their endeavors, but you never take the time to focus on your own. At first, you would be happy but then you may feel bitter that you never reached your full potential. You may be upset that you can't buy the nice things you also deserve. But once you take time to set up a plan to reach your goals, you become very impressed with all you've accomplished. You start making more money and can afford to buy a house. You now feel complete. You help others and yourself be the best you can be. 

In closing, I have explored whether happiness is attained by helping others or oneself and have given examples to explain that I think it is a combination of both. If you are happy but see others suffering, it takes away your joy. Being a good person makes most people happy unless they have some mental character flaws.  But you can't please everyone and leave yourself neglected or you may experience bitterness or depression. A perfect sense of joy is when everyone is happy. 
