People are more likely to be happy if they focus on themselves first.  If you are not happy with yourself it is unlikely that you can make other people happy.  Some people that are unhappy with themselves think that making others happy will cause them happiness. This is not always the case. Happiness lies within a person. It is not something that can be forced. 

Everyone should find something in life that makes themselves happy. A hobby or a goal. This can help relax the mind and result in happinesss. If we concentrate on something we love to do or something we would like to accomplish in the future this will give us something to look forward to. A hobby can also give a person something to look forward to. 

Some people are just unhappy and not much can be done to change this. Some have mental health issues and others just choose not to be happy. If you don't have it within yourself to be happy than it's not likely you will feel happy. If you have a hard life and problems othere people don't have than it is also hard to feel happy. Everyone thinks differently and can't feel the same as another. 

If you are someone that is able to feel happy helping others than it's killing two birds with one stone! You make someone else happy and in return you feel the same way. Donate to a charity. Do some community service work. Volunteer at a homeless shelter. These things would help someone else and you will feel good about yourself. This will result in happiness for both parties involved. 

I am a very stressed out person. At the moment not very happy. So trying to make someone else happy would not work for me. I have to concentrate on myself first. I need to set goals and find ways to be a happpier person. Once I am able to achieve that I can work on making others happy. I spent much of my life putting the happiness of others above the happiness of myself.  In return this just made me more unhappy. I found that people did not appreciate me or the things I would do for them. I also found that people would not do the same for me in a similar situation. Focus on yourself! Always put yourself first. That is what I tell myself. 

Sometimes a person can be unhappy and it's beyond their control. And no matter what they do, they are unable to feel happy. They may have an illness and are sick all the time. They may be in an abusive relationship. These are just a few examples of why someone would not be able to acheieve happiness.  Other people my question why someone is never happy but you don't know what a person is going through unless you walk a day in their shoes! 

Overall happiness comes from within.  If you don't feel happy and are able to change this than you should. Living a life without happiness is not good for ones health. It will cause more stress in your life. Trying to work on yourself is a good way to start. Once you begin to feel happiness from within than you will be able to make others happy. 

Right now I am having a hard time writing about happiness when I'm feeling very unhappy with my life.  I should follow my own advise and work on this. Some of the reasons are beyond my control and other reasons are not. I used to feel happy helping others and now I feel resentful because I never get help from others. It's a sad way to live. Focus on yourself and things in life that make YOU happy. That is very important.  I hope to be able to follow my own advise and achieve this goal in the near future. I think this will improve my health and life as a whole. 
