                                   In the modern world we are go with new model impressions on the screen and it must be attracted by the normal people the society. It may attracted the people all over th eworld. Our ancestors who coined the adage and sending clear and powerful message to their descendants.

                                    An impressions is must be trustworthy, friendly, different behaviors. In the modern world  media and advertisement post on social media accompained by an image. There are some tricks to attract people with their false news and modern advertisement, nowadays some people trust the social media news and advertisement. People know that the advertisement and media news fool the people but they accept it and follow it.

                                     First impressions is the best impression so the company and other field show the brand name and product as visible to the people and attract them with their creative ad and creative things. It is falase one but they confidentally trust the product based on their brand name and buy the product and ask their family members and friends about the product. There must be both trust and untrust one in this field. In the politicians also follow the media to reach the people mind. People didn't see the reality in the media.                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
