Do images and impressions have too much effect on people?
Well, that is a good question for todays society. If you take a look around us and the turmoil this year has brought forth across the nation, I think you will find yourself agreeing with me whenever I say YES they do! From people only doing kind acts behind a camera and posting it for the world to see what a 'good person' they are, to politics wanting to uphold their "godly" images by forcing religious ideaoligies onto the nation with their laws, to just regular old people trying to fit into whats seen as the norm, or as "beautiful"in the media, the world is under a terrible curse.
It used to be we could help a stranger from the goodness of our hearts. We didn't need to brag to the world and let them make us feel validated. Nowawadays you cant scroll through social media without seeing endless videos of "influencers" shoving their phones and cameras in the faces of the homeless, poor, needy, or disabled to "offer them help" and then post it online for the world to see these poor humans suffering while the influencer is doing an "act of kindness"
We cant leave in a society that is sworn to protect us in our bill of rights from being led by religious laws. And yet yesterday, on June 24th the Supreme Court ruled to overturn Roe Vs Wade, leading an attack on our women, our bodies, and our rights, all in the name of "god" or "in gods image" or "well god wouldnt want that". We are no longer protected by the separation of the church and the state, and we are no longer protected because wealthy white men wanted to uphold their god fearing "christian" morals and values.
The beauty standards of the world has always been changing with the times, but that never means we as humans don't try to strive to achieve beauty, to be seen as beautiful. Daily we see people going through cosmetic procedures, body modifications, and more just so they can post pictures and feel validated. Dont get me wrong, if it makes you happy and it is done safe then by all means do it and have a blast. We just need to realise we don't need to change for others to see us as beautiful, we already are and society needs to change to be more accepting of ALL beauty.
So again I ask, Do images and impressions have too much effect on people? I believe no matter how you look at it, it absolutely does have too much of an effect on people in general.  Wanting to make a good impression is fine but the way some of us go about it is a problem. But attempting to force us to come to that impression is also a serious problem that some people, politicians, lawmakers, and more, need to work on starting like.. Last year. If your ego is built on forcing people to adhere shitty things or losing rights just so you can get some brownie points on your rep sheet, you need to touch grass and re-evaluate yourself and your life.
