     Social media and media in general constantly bombard us with images of unattainable beauty. They depict gorgeous models living glamorous lifestyles doing activities that are way too expensive to actually do in real life. They are showing us clothing we should be wearing, cars we should be driving, champagne we should be drinking, jewelry we should be adorned with. All the while no indication is given as to how one could afford such a high quality of life unless it was inherited. 
     Celebrities are always promoting products or putting out bad music that they did not even write themselves. They live and die by what their public relations manager dictates. The products they are promoting are usually bad and of low quality made in a sweat shop by a child forced to work in a windowless factory just so we can have the newest pair of Air Jordans. 
     The way a product is packaged has become more important than the product itself. With Tik Tok and everybody making viral videos millions of people will buy something because of a persuasive 15 second video. Then after everyone has been tricked the product sold 500 million units. Word of mouth advertising has been mutilated and distorted to the point that I trust no product or advertisement until I try it myself.
     It is true that personalities, products, ideas, and trends benefit from being marketed the right way. But when deception distorts the reality and truth of what the concept or product is then we never really know what to believe and will continue to live in a world where appearences are reality and reality is a lie. If we strive to convey the truth then the real quality and merit of something will prove itself without any need for deception or false advertising. People generally have ambition that exceeds their talent. Believe in yourself but do not misportray your abilities or talents. True talent rises to the top.
     The constant assault on our senses with all these images has a huge impact on our self-esteem, our self-image, our buying habits, even our thoughts. I believe people in a position of influence should not abuse that by being a puppet for some marketing campaign that they usually don't truly believe in themselves. 
     In today's environment I always try to see behind what an image or impression is trying to persuade me to do or buy. I always look up reviews on sites that are not paid sites. I research before buying. I hope we all can see past false claims and find the truth. It's usually right in front of you.
