In awser to this question yes, the imagery and imressions we are bombarded with daily have far to great an impact on  the average person. instead of being presented with things as they are we have become too accustomed to the frills and scenery being arranged so that the clothing, food item, or even person being presented becomes pleasing to us. We've learned to accept these dressed up scenes as truth subconsciously giving ourselves permission to put approval on atuplay. What this does is often disappoint us when we learn facts to the contrary.  with food that might not seem so important but when it comes to celebrities or more importantly the politicians we rely on to kept our government running properly we get a shock we're unprepared for. BUt were we really unprepared? Shouldn't we as adults know better that to just blindly accept the window-dressing as reality?  The answer the studies have revealed may just surprise you. By subjecting ourselves to this daily brainwashing on differring levels we become desensitized to fact and by default in many situation unable to discern harsh realities.

Several studies have been done that have found that we choose what's pleasing to the eyes, ears and senses. They have discovered that when paired with a person or an item enough times, pleasing scenery and sounds ellicit favorable thought toward a food, item or person even if one has never tasted, handled or heard of the food, item or person before. Some advertisers and corporate officials say this is beneficial and harmless. They focus on the way it pleases individuals and increase sale for a company. Public relations specialist say that to present a celebrity or a candidate in the actually buyingbest possible light should be seen as helpful and a message to society that putting your best foot forward is the way to success. but that doesn't account for when the presentation turns out to be the opposite of who that person is under all the window dressing. 

In short bombarding people with pretty cover ups instead of truth may work for sales but what people really need is to know what, or who as the case nmay be, they are actually buying. A dose of reality is desperately needed in today's society if we are ever going to be able to function with our eyes open instead of waking up one say to find out our system is falling apart around us. We've tryed the beautiful lies.   
