There are different ways there are to live your life to the fullest. You can only focus on yourself or you can focus on everything else around you. People are always trying to pursue true happiness and how to find their best life and best self. You always hear you need to focus on yourself, do self-care, workout, eat healthy to achieve complete happiness. Some other people also say give back to your community, help others, and you'll find happiness. I believe that if you focus on yourself and only yourself you will find true happiness. 

People are goal oriented creatures, so when you focus on your goals and you start achieving those goals you will feel good about yourself, which will lead you to be happy with yourself. The happiest people have everything they want in life and those people have only gotten that through following their goals. I believe that it is nice to only have to focus on yourself and only have one person to worry about. Although it might make you feel like a good person for giving back to someone or helping out a community, that will only make you feel happy for a short period of time, and you will still have to go back to yourself at the end of the day. Even if you help many people during a time span of a year the next year there will still be many people that need help, which could make you feel as if you never helped anyone, affecting your happiness in the long run. 

Helping other people will make you feel like a nice person and give you random burts of happiness but at the end of the day you will be the same person. If you do not work on yourself and acomplish your dreams and goals you will not be working on the person that you have to live with and be with every single day. If you do not like the person who you are you will never be happy no matter how many people you make happy. Happiness comes from within and not from an exterior source. Work on yourself and your dreams instead of the dreams of others and you will find true happiness.
