I'm asked the question, "Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?" And I'd have to answer, of course. If you look at the advancement of technological media you can see how radio had a relatively short run compared to imagery, moving or otherwise.

I'm not sure why imagery is so compelling to the human animal. I'm not sure why being on television specifically seems to give a person some kind of cloak of success in the view of many Americans. It seems these days that "reality TV" has been taken as real reality, which couldn't be further from the truth. Just because someone appeared briefly on TV, or even had their own show seems to suggest in some people's minds that that person is somehow a success.

Take the previous President for example. Here you have a man who by most measurements would be considered a poor business man. Having suffered multiple bankruptcies as well as innumerable lawsuits over decades he still managed to pull off the veneer of being a successful business man mostly in part due to his reality TV show. His producers polished that veneer for the public until many thought he was some kind of uber-wheeler and dealer, which is farcical. This veneer played a large role in his appeal as a presidential candidate and of course as they say, the rest is history. A history that we are seeing bleed out on the streets of the country of Ukraine.

So yes, yes this imagery, this manufactured veneer has too much of an effect on us all. This constant marketing, especially from television, and now I suppose the next generations of screens - the internet, pulls a warm blanket over us all putting us to sleep, often at the expense of awareness of the problems we are facing as a nation and as a species. Instead of focusing on our collective, yet very individually experienced, problems we are constantly being sold...something. "Don't worry about tomorrow - buy this and you'll feel just fine!" So sayeth the Glass Teat, as Harlan Ellison once described television. It's something I try to stay vigilant towards when I'm consuming media.
