I firmly believe in the phrase I've heard in the past which states, "no good deed is selfless". This concept is not meant to have negative connotation as some infer, but instead points to what I know to be true: personal happiness comes from doing good for others. While many people have their minds set on achieving a specific set of goals to gain happiness, it is more likely that they will gain a sense of success, but not necessarily true happiness. Completing goals while also working to help another person achieve those same goals, however, would tie into making a person feel sincere happiness. 

It's easy to use the example of charity when relating good deeds to happiness. Imagine deciding to make a charitable donation which would help better the lives of some population, or fund research for science. While an individual would know they are helping others by making the donation, is it truly selfless? It seems fairly impossible to imagine that someone donating to chartiy wouldn't feel a sense of pride in having helped others. In comparison, adding money over time to a personal savings account would provide security and a sense of comfort, but not true happiness in itself. It may be argued that for some people, achieving personal goals like landing a dream job, would provide a person the happiness they yearn for, but imagine that you lived in this world alone. Would that same feeling of happiness really exist? It doesn't seem so.

If everybody went out of their way to do something, even small, for someone else every day, it would be  a happier world to live in than I can imagine. Not only does helping others provide a sense of happiness, but being on the receiving end is fulfilling too. By making others happy with acts of kindness, they too will be more inclined to help others in return. There is not any negative aspect to providing acts of kindness toward others. The next time you are having a bad day, think about how many others are probably having bad days as well. You could easily turn this around by helping to hold a door, or by giving a compliment in passing.

In conclusion, there is no reason for society to not try to interact with and better the lives of others. Humans are social beings with the ability to show compassion and care for a reason. It is in our nature to strive to accommodate for others and not be solely focused on one's own achievements. It's easy to see that society as a whole also has become more of a selfish community than in past years- with the rising popularity of social media, for example. Take my advice- if you want to achieve true happiness, go out today and every day forward and do something good to help another out. 
