There was a television show in my childhood, I believe it was called the "Wide World of Sports." In its opening credits, it showed marvelous feats of athletic accomplishment as well as terrifying incidents of athletic failure. The message was clear: being a world leader was not without risk and sacrifice. 

In this day of participation trophies - where all participation is celebrated, a view of the world that divides people into two camps, winners and losers, seems outdated and even harmful. But is it? Does competition drive excellence? Or is success better achieved through cooperation? Are competition and cooperation two distinct categories or are they better seen as poles on a continuum?

Surely, most of us of a certain age and athletic gracelessness remember with embarrassment our awkward time during high school gym. In a world governed by winners and losers, our role in life was clear. I suspect that there were many more of us in "that" category than we would like to admit. The fact of the matter is that most of us were never destined to become athletes. 

Perhaps our time in high school would have been better spent in more cooperative environments gaining confidence in our bodies and a chance to head off middle-aged spread by identifying lifelong hobbies that would have gotten us up off the couch and spending time with our families. 

But does cooperation too come with a cost? I recently became aware of a high school alumni that I only knew at a distance. He apparently started life without a lot of breaks or chances. But, he had dreams. I came to find out many years later that he ended up playing in the highly competitive NFL and is now a motivational speaker. 

Perhaps the coaches in high school helped to guide this young man on his way. Without the competition and clear rules that helped to shape him, would he ever have achieved his dreams? Did achieving his dreams really take anything away from the rest of us? And was it all competition that shaped him? He did, after all, play on a team.

I suspect that true success is guided by both competition and cooperation. Competition sometimes gets a bad rap, but it is not without rules. Cooperation put men on the moon and most endeavors we complete today require teamwork. Perhaps it is not the argument of whether cooperation or teamwork help us most achieve success that is pivotal. Perhaps it is a function of better awareness of when and how much to apply either that dermines our success. 


