Images and impressions have a signifcant effect on people, so much so that it can do harm to certain to certain individuals. In this sense, misleading images and impressions have gone to far, as they can prop-up unfair standards of beauty, convey certain groups have rights they certainly do not have, and even communicate a status-quo that is contrary to reality. 

Many young citizens, especially women, open social media every day and are blasted with ads that show a standard of beauty that is either impractical (large amounts of expensive make-up), unrealistic (hair-styles that only apply to white people) or digitally altered (the Kardashians). For the vast majority of the populace, this conveys a  sense of failure to meet standards, and even if they buy a product being advertised, they still won't meet that standard. Even recently, Meta did an in-house study on their younger Instagram users, and found that it was driving their depression and poor body image. It is on the users to get off their phone and go get a sense of the real world, but that doesn't change the fact that posting false imagery is glorified fraud that continues to do verifiable damage.

A similar issue is how advertising can impress on young men (women not excluded). Take any alcohol commercial you've seen. How often are the males alone while they drink in public during the ad? Isn't there usually a woman on their arm? How often do you see them driving home safely after a night out? The impression this leaves is that drinking entitles men to the presence of women. Furthermore, there may be the impression that there is little consequence to worry about at the end of the night. Adding "please drink responsibly" has never done enough to compensate, as drunk driving deaths continue to be an issue.

Finally, images and impressions in the news may have the biggest impact of all. Any news headline can be "spun" to support a certain argument. Challenging the efficacy of vacines on a daily basis certainly sows doubt among Fox News viewers, especially when that doubt is repeated over and over and over again. If a vaccine is 95% effective, but the news only reports the 5% of cases it doesn't work, then the viewers of Fox News are going to be focused on the risk. Consequently, less of the population is immune to disease, and more infections occur. Bad faith arguments are not illegal, but continuously (and knowingly) propping them up is negligent. 

It's because of misleading imagery in ads and news that we have to deal with unfair standards of beauty, a broad irrational sense of entitlement, and a view of reality that is false. There a many more examples but hardly enough time. What people view in front of their face from a trusted source may as well be true, and the onus is on whatever media outlet to filter their content so that they only convey the truth. Standards of truth in this regard need to be legislated and upheld at the local, state and federal levels. 
