As time has passed, what was once a standard in society, to gain respect and admiration on the merit of ones breadth of knowledge and formal education, has been supplanted by the verneration of a vapid culture that lacks the skills to discern for themselves forced to depend on believing those who are looking to take advantage of that fact. The byproduct of which is the gullibility of the people, easily deluded by the glamour and glitz of celebrity, duped by swindlers who will tell tall tales and spin a yarn to gain your trust, and your dollar

In todays age of social media and influence, there is hardly a corner of the internet where someone doesn't want to sell you something or make you feel a certain type of way. About yourself, about someone else, about themselves. Deception is the common currency used and it turns out, it's quite valuable. People are being tricked into beliving any and every thing, from what to wear, what to buy, how to live, what to eat and drink, and lucky for you someone has the answer to all your problems. They have the answer to all of your desires. 

Look no further from what trends on social media, desputes between celebrities and focus on their bland personal lives as if it had any more merit than yours or mine. Yet these wearisome people are adorned and every detail of their lives must be obsessed over. Look no further than the cover of beauty magazines portraying people in their best light, something for the young and old to aspire to be. Yet reality is that they are manufactured and polished in photo editing programs to look nothing like they actually do. Take the glorification of the rich who contruibute nothing to society yet are placed on a pedestal as if they have done something other than be born into wealth. The things you buy are sold as gold and built with the cheapest cost, sold at the highest price and are not built to last. People are being decieved left and right in every aspect of our lives, where what we see is constructed as something we should desire to have, marketiung and manipulation to create an opinion that many are left to believe has they have given their trust to those with ill intent.

People may say that it's counter culture and to hate, when one is to oppose the wealth and glorification of celebrity. Of course it is, our culture has been poisoned by a lack of individualism causing a desire to fit in and follow the trend, of which is currently so far off track that people look to all the wrong sources to gain self worth and confidence. People may say that one product is the best when the sum of its parts aren't close to being worth an alternative, yet due to pressure, deception, the desire to follow others and be a part of a group, those aspects are exploited by those who wish to take advantage.

We are not forced to be uneducated, or to lack self confidence as a society, but we are heavily maniupulated 
 and guided in that direction with many people following the shepards of celebrity, wealth and power without even considering that they are being lied to.
