The world as we know it is a ruse. In this day and time just about everything and everyone is fake. Hop on facebook, instagram, youtube, or even just the internet and you will see at least five people trying to sell you something; be it an idea, an item, a lifestyle, a political party, or even a style of music. We live in a world of fakers. Watch tv or youtube or go for a drive and you will see ads for different foods that look deluctible- but the food that was photographed is almost never really edible. Surely we have heard of all the trouble food advertisers go through to make the food they're selling look fantastic. Fake buns are fluffier, spraying oil on burgers makes them look jucier, and mashed potatoes make a beautiful looking ice cream. Look around and ask yourself how this affects you, because it does affect us all. 

While societal advances have brought great things, it has also created this network of fakers, which directly affects every single person living and interacting in this society. I have seen it the most with beauty standards for both men and women but I would like to focus in on women specifically. While there has been a movement for body positivity there is still a lot of hate for larger bodies. Most girls online severly edit and facetune their photos (and videos too!) before posting them. A lot of the "instagram models" look NOTHING like their photos in real life. But most of their viewers don't know that. Young impressionable teens and men are sucked into these fake images and videos of a woman who has blurred her skin to the point that you can't even see her pores and shrunk her waist and inflated her boobs. And it does create an ideal, a standard, people look up to them and try to look like them and when they can't it affects self esteem and even relationships. 

Let's take it a step farther. Food. Every day we see amazing food adverts, everything looks delicious and appealing, ads boasting fantastic discounts. It is hard to resist this siren song. In reality most of the "food" in those adverts is not even actual edible food or at least not the type of food it is supposed to be. So what are we really buying then? If what we are seeing is not the actual product that we are buying what are we putting into our bodies. If we can't even trust photographs taken by a company how can we trust their nutrition facts or the quality of anything really. 

Many companies also intentionally mislead consumers. There is something called "green washing" where companies claim to be environmentally friendly but they are not actually just to seem better to sell more products. If they can lie about the environmental repercussions of their products, and about how their products look, and about how they look and what they do, then who and what are we seeing and eating and believing? People are gullible, they pick the narrative that they like, and its fun to look at appetizing food and beautiful people and its nice to listen to lies that make us feel good. It only hurts everyone in the end though, people develop self image issues, are swayed into hate groups, eat food that is not good for them, believe leaders who lie to them- and when things go wrong, they blame their peers or almost anything except for the actual ones to blame. 

We are in a society that is surrounded and ruled by liars, buying into their propaganda, physically and literally and being turned against one another at the same time. This dishonesty is a cancer that is slowly eating us all alive. Somehow there needs to be more skepticism from the mass public towards these megalithic figures and companies because in reality unless you meet someone and get to know them yourself, you don't know them. Research is extremely important and I would like to see more people decentering the fantastical celebrity and political figures from their lives and truly researching products and events so they can form informed opinions on these subjects. At the end of the day, what you see is NOT what you get and all of the media and clips we see are targeted and aimed towards us; we only see what they want us to see. 
