People are more likely to achieve success through cooperation, rather than through competition. It is important for people work together toward a common goal than to compete against one another. Insistutions in which their members and constituents work together and cooperate are more likel to achieve long term success than those in which constituents are arguing and competing over who is right.

Take politics for example. For many decades the two major political parties were able to work together to pass laws that are beneficial to their constituents, the American people. Recently, the two parties have become so divided that the two parties are completely unwilling to work with eachother to accomplish goals that will better serve Americans. Every bill that goes into the Senate is left in a standstill because one party refuses to cooperate with the other, resulting in nothing getting passed, regardless of what the overwhelimg majority of Americas support. Americans have been suffering due to COVID-19, racial unrest, and financial crises, yet the governemnt is unwilling to work together to pass things that would benefit Americans because they are more focused on competing for power and money.

You might be asking - if we don't have healthy competition, how will be ever get better? This can be true sometimes, because competition does force us to think outside the box, come up with creative solutions, and lay out our arguments in a sound and convincing manner. However, when competition escalates to the point of violence or simply refusal to cooperate with the people of the opposite viewpoint, then eventually progress will be extrmemely difficult to achieve. We should view competition as a way to move toward cooperation, by encouraging us to consider the opposite veiwpoint and present our arguments to convince the other party why we must work together. 

In summary, cooperation is the most successful way to achieve success and change in this world. Healthy competition is good to a certain point, but at the end of the day we must work together to achieve real success. 
