It's a pretty common saying that nobody sits on their deathbed wishing that they had bought more stuff during their lives.  I have even heard it myself several times, both in person and in the media.  In fact, if you ask practically anyone about it, they will say that having memorable experiences is more meaningful to them than acquiring material possessions.  However, some people go too far and say that we should revert to a pre-materialistic society, and I think this is misguided.  We should not be so quick to dismiss the very idea of owning and valuing our material goods.  Materialism, after all is what drives societies and economies forward.  If we all suddenly gave up on it, as some suggest we should, we would all suffer as a result.  

Consider the state of the economy in general.  Even those who do not follow business news will know that a recession happens when spending drops because people are worried about their livelihoods, and since people are buying less, companies produce less, and this causes more people to worry about their jobs.  Luckily, this is only a sporadic occurrence, and economies do quite well over the long term, but imagine if this was to become the norm rather than the exception.  If we all stopped buying things that make our lives feel even a little bit better, we would be causing real pain for other people, and ultimately for ourselves.  The simple fact is, that we should be responsible with our spending, but remember that our place as consumers benefits the rest of the world.  We also need to consider that many others get real meaning and satisfaction out of their jobs.  It may feel good to cut back on material purchases, and it may be a good idea for some people to do so, but we shouldn't say that the creativity of a clothing designer, or a honest toil of a factory worker is somehow meaningless or even harmful.  We are members of a society and of an economy, and so we need to help to maintain the health of both.  

This is not to say that I find no problem with the current state of spending and conspicuous consumption.  I do admit that materialism can go too far.  Anyone who spends too much time and effort chasing after purchases will alienate the people around them and cause themselves financial pain.  They will also hurt the environment by consuming too much resources.  These are all real and valid concerns.  Again, I think that some people would truly benefit from buying and using less.  However, my main point remains that calls for a complete renunciation of materialism are overblown, and could cause even more problems for the population as a whole down the line.  

Everyone sometimes feels nostalgic for the world of their childhood, but every individual should also think about how much more difficult life would be without the innvoations that have come about in even just the past couple of decades.  Consumption and production made those improvements possible.

I hope that I have convinced you that however you may feel about materialism in yourself or in others, and even if you want to spend more on experiences and less on physical products, you should remember that buying things when you need them, or even just when you want them, ultimately does help others.  If it feels good to you, and if you can afford it, you should not feel guilt or shame about fulfilling your own material desires.  Getting what you love can be a great thing, and so can loving and appreciating what you already have.  You wouldn't want to be criticized by others in either of those situations, so it shouldn't be your place to criticize anyone else.
