People achieve more success by cooperation rather than competition. In reality, the only people we should be competing against is ourselves. Cooperation allows the great minds of the world to come together for the collective good of all people. 

 For example, Thomas Edison is credited with the creation of the light bulb. In reality, he just improved designs and assisted with the ability to actually use lights in homes. Joseph Swan assisted in improving the lightbulb, but rarely is recognized for his work. If we just focused on competition, the light bulb would not have improved as much or as quickly.  We would have a less effective productive if people did not cooperate and use each others designs to help improve it.

Another example where I believe cooperation would be more efficient than compeition is global waming. I believe in order to solve the greatest threats to man, we need to work together. Competition drives a force of putting people against each other, while cooperation allows people to work together and improve on each others idea. We as humans want to get credit or be known for something, but I really don't think recognition is as important as people make it out to be. 

Imagine if you were creating ways to reduce carbon from the environment, even the smartest scientist would be limited by how much his or her brain can create. If we work in teams, we have more scientists who want to achieve the same goal. We will have more ideas and different ways of achieving the same goal. There will be a greater chance of creating a lasting accomplishment through teamwork.  

Think about how Microsoft was created by Bill Gates and Paul Allen. Although Bill Gates receives most of the credit, it was a joint effort. We need to start giving everyone respect whether their contribution is big or small.

Others may argue that competition drives people to achieve more, but I think when you bounce ideas off one another that is when success truely begins. People are meant to be social beings, so collaborating and learning from one another seems beneficial and natural.

All in all, this world would be better off if we can cooperate. We all can be safer, happier, and healthier. We are never one on this world, we need people and the sooner we realize that cooperation is key to success, the better off we will be.
