The differences between competition and cooperation are numerous. In some social environments such as gaming or social acceptance, competition can be rewarding and important to the individual but in other cases cooperation can benefit the entire group or team. If one were to be playing at a sporting event it would be in that person's best interest to cooperate with their team while competeing with the opposing team.

Alternatively, if one were to be working with a team at their job it would be a bad idea to compete with their boss or with the board of directors as this may garner a generally bad concept of that person. While cooperating with the team and leadership and doing only what is instructed for the team without going out of the bounderies of said instructions may in fact garner a promotion or at the least some sort of recognition among the team members and leadership.

In most scenarios it will depend on the environment and the task at hand. Some situations will require a member of the team to compete with other team members. Solo tasks might need a cooperative approach while other situations may involve a team approach. This can be a slipery slope to deal with in most social environments and can be difficult to rationalize while engaged in work environments. Assesment of the environment and the social implications are warrented prior to taking any actions in an effort to successfully navigate the situation. Formulating opinions when direct, fact based answers can be challenging and lead to impending failure while in other cases basing an approach to the problem with facts might not be a viable solution.

Keeping all known input in mind and the environment in which one is operating in there can be a general assesment of cooperation or competition inference during the task period. Making a concertive effort to either cooperate or compete after situational assesment can grant the person involved with a suitable "win" in general while keeping social graces in tact. In fact one might cooperate in an effort to gain social and financial rewards when the competitive nature of a person's psyche demands competition should prevail. Again, this can be a confusing task initially but with practice and patience a person can become quite adept at choosing the right path in more interations while reducing the possibility of failure. In general most people are taught to compete in almost every aspect of their lives and are willing to go out of their comfort zone to do so in an effort to succeed beyond their peers.

In my personal experience I would say that the people that compete the most are usually the most successful and yet the people that cooperate the most, while held to lessor standards live a calm and relatively stress free life. To compete means that one is always on edge, always looking for a way to win out and is constantly striving to improve beyond common expectations. The problem with this approach is that it will burn you out much faster than taking a slower and more relaxed approach to life. People will usually adhere to the way they were raised and the environment they are familiar with. It is seldom that people accept change because they are comfortable with what they know works, whether that is a competitive or cooperative lifestyle or something in between.
