Nowadays, we are bombarded with clever advertisements and idealized views of reality. It seems that we tend to fall for pretty ads and descriptions that appeal to our emotions. Marketing strategists know this and have used deceptive practices in order to makes us buy a product or service. However, this not only applies to shopping. Every year, thousands of people fall prey to situations that seem "favorable" but in fact, can be detrimental to the wellbeing of some of them, such as marriage, having a kid, going into debt for a useless degree, etc. This is a problem I have been delving into in the last years: why do people keep doing or buying things that are not what really are, despite the evidence? I believe this comes from our upbringing based on movies and stories that portray false views of reality.

People are highly emotional beings. It is "costly" to think rationally and consider the pros and cons as well as the long term effects of a decision. It is boring to think this way. When we were kids, we were raised with Disney movies that portrayed an idealized and false view or reality; we watched cartoons and movies that force into our brains the idea that marriage, having kids or going to college is must. It is true however, that many people are capable to understand the difference between a story and reality, and thus, become smart consumers and decision-makers. Perhaps, other variables are at play here but, in any case, the high divorce rates, high debt to income ratio after students graduate and the tremendous amount of meaningless products and services that people buy just because their ads were clever, tell a different story.

In conclusion, our upbringing based on stories and movies portraying an idealized view of reality has been detrimental to out decision-making capabilities in shoppin and life in general. There is no easy way to get out of it because making an effort to acknowledge it and fight against it, is "costly" and time consuming. Most people will not make the effort. However, it would useful to at least, promote this idea somehow, so that a certain proportion of people could be aware of it.
