The perception of happiness varies from individual to individual. Some find it outside of themselves while others believe it comes from within. I personally believe it is both. Happiness comes from striving to do better, be better, and accepting ones self for who and what they are. Also, looking outside of themselves and learning to appreciate those and things around them.
When we start to look inside of ourselves and find the root cause of unhappiness we can then address those in order to find the good that brings us joy. You can look in the mirror and be saddened by your appearance but what can you do to change that? Work out, eat healthy or learn to appreciate yourself for who you are. That will in turn spark joy and happiness in your heart. Love begins within and so does happiness.
But happiness isn't always about ourselves and how we feel. Its about the world around us too. Balance. A balance between us and the world. Ive always applied the saying "Stop and smell the roses" to every thing around me. I see a lady walking with a nice pair of shoes or a cute top? I compliment them. That will hopefully spark hapiness inside of her in order for her to spark joy to the next person. We then have a chain reaction of happiness. Let us not forget that learning how to manage our other emotions will greatly impact how we process happiness.
When we focus on others we may see an area of ourselves we can focus on to improve our own happiness. Whether that be financial, appearance or lifestyle it can be inspiring to look to others for motivation. Happiness is everywhere but it perception that really matters. And there will always be people in this world that are so unhappy they want others around them to be unhappy as well. We can either try to persua these people or we can move on and keep our peace.
So our question today is "Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of the others?" Well, I truly believe it is both. In order to be authentically happy for others we must be authentically happy with ourselves. It's a game of balance and understanding. Never give up on happiness. Always look for it in yourself and around you.
In conclusion, some may feel that other personal goals will bring them happiness but I believe that is because they are not comfortable going to war with their own self. Happiness should start by focusing on ourselves. To gain a clear understanding of the word and emotion. Giving gifts at christmas brings me so much joy when I see someone unwrap the gift I spent and time and thought on. But that was my goal. My goal to find the perfect gift to light up their soul. I hope this some how inspires others to reflect on themselves a little bit more because you deserve it. You deserve to be happy because of you and your accomplishments,  big or small. So maybe yes happiness comes from focusing on our own personal goals but it also comes from the happiness of others.

