Far too often are people obsessed with images in one way or another. Not only are we focused on appealing images, but the cultivation of an important or appealing image is often necessary for success in industries. Those who do not fit a standard or otherwise conventional idea of beauty are considered less-than, while those who do are put on pedestals. This concept rings true on both a corporate, but also public level.

This is especially the case in the context of businesses, particularly those that are public-facing.  It is important to have a good 'face' of a brand in order for that brand to succeed. No one wants to look at something or someone that is considered unpleasant to look at. Not only do important impressions and appealing appearances of a brand and its employees affect the perceptions- and therefore sales- of the brand itself, but these impressions and appearances affect the perceptions of the people who view them. All too often we compare ourselves to the photoshopped models on billboards, to the dehydrated musclemen in our superhero movies. Such impossible ideals are harmful, but they sell, and to brands, pushing products or services is the best thing a brand can do.

Hell, not only do social media influencers- a growing industry if ever there was one- promote conventional beauty through their heavily-filtered videos and promotional materials, but the materials they promote exacerbate the importance of beauty and appearance. It is impossible to ignore, and impossible to deny. They are promoted because they are nice to look at, and they promote tools so you may attempt to seize such a quality for yourself. They hawk foundations, lipstick, concealer- anything to take away the blemishes we've convinced ourselves are unsightly. They sell gummies meant to slim your waistline, machines that will tighten your abs, just so people will deign you pretty enough to look at, all the while lining their heavying pockets with the money-laden false hope of people who simply want to be valued.

We as a society place far too much emphasis on appearances and images. Both sides of the coin value these ideals highly, and with detrimental results. No one should have to strive for an impossible to maintain image, just because a commercial tells them that's the image that society wants them to have. If we want to change this at all, we need to focus less on appearance.

