With the abundance of advertisements and the rise in consumerism both in the United States and around the world it has become increasingly clear that images and impressions that are formed from those images have too great an effect on people. People will end up buying things, not necessarily because they need them, but because the advertisements and images that they see trick them into thinking that every person they come in contact with has them. Car commercials bambard consumers with the next best thing, but in reality all they show are a few choice features and in most cases they just show a car driving down an empty road. In media and on websites young people are bombarded by products that are worn or used by their favorite creators. Being impressionable and having a want to fit in, young people are driven to purchase those same items in the hope that others will identify them as having the same qualities. When someone gets into trouble, the first thing people usually talk about is how they look or how they live. People readily assume that if someone has the image of innocence or of success that they are less likely to be guilty of what they are accused of verses someone who has neither of those qualities, despite what the evidence may say. You don't have to look any farther than fast food advertisements which showcase items that look nothing like what we order and yet people still buy them and consume them in large quantities with the vast majority not calling these same companies out for this behavior. The images we see and the advertisements we watch have a direct impact on what we view in society as acceptable or normal, regardless of if it really is or not. These same images form our behaviors and our impressions of others, creating an unconcous bias that is hard to overcome.

One might be quick to argue that decernment and experience helps us to overcome the strangle hold that images and advertisements have on us, but we can simply use a name brand like Nike as an example here. They have been known to mistreat workers and underpay them in other countries and yet, consumers are still ready to buy their products without a second though, despite them costing next to nothing to make. There use of celebrities and sports figures help to give consumers the illusion of quality and of status, even when the companies own practices showcase anything but. If people went buy the companies behavior, the cost of the product and the quality of the product verses its competitors, they would see a clear difference. The problem lies in the fact that people put a lot of stock in the advertisements and images associated with the brand which indicate that wealthy, famous and powerful people all buy the brand. For this reason, people assume that it is quality and worth every penny that they spend on it, despite independent research indicating otherwise. 

When it comes to positions of power, particularly in politics, it is easy to see how images and impressions can impact directly how likely it is that a person is elected. Despite not having any real experience in politics, Arnold Swazanager was elected as governor of Califonia. This was due to his popularity in Hollywood alone and while it was clear he was able to manage the position, his original election was driven by his image and the impression that people had of him through his acting career. This has occured many times throughout history and it was what helped to get Donald Trump elected. People wanted a stronger economy in the United States and so they elected Donald Trump because of his business dealings and his appearance on the show "The Apprentece". They had the impression through images and various media that he was a good businessman with enough skill and knowhow to lead a contry. He dressed professionally and seemed to talk professionally in the show and so they felt he would make a good fit. This was despite the fact that he, like many others who were elected, didn't have any real prior knowledge in politics or U.S. government. 

While its true that individuals without prior experience were successful at similar positions, it doesn't downplay the power that images and advertisements have on individuals. We have had many people not elected to positions of power, not because they weren't more qualified than who they were running against, but because they didn't fit the image that people had in their minds and because they didn't have the ability to advertise. In politics each year, we have qualified individuals in the United States who never get nominated or elected because they don't have the money for PR teams or advertisements to springboard them onto every television screen. We've had many companies that appear to make inferior products see great amounts of success because of their ability to advertise while small businesses that are trying to compete with them fail, not because they don't have better products, but because they don't have the money to advertise their product as much. We have all found products that we are surprised by because they cost less and are better quality than we are used to buying and that right there is proof enough that images and impressions formed from them led us to 


