 Companies using colorful advertizing that doesn't match the product for corprate greed.

 Companies such as Burger King or Mcdonalds are using eye catching colorful advertizing to catch you're attention but it doesn't match the product and it's getting out of control. These companies for example will make 20 to 30 burgers real slow to make them perfect then they will take pictures of each one. Next they will have 0a focus group of 10 to 20 people who getting paid and they will have them pick the best looking picture. Next they will make 20 designs for packaging and do the focus group again. In the end they have a perfect flawless procuct picture to catch your attention. 
 Now when you buy the product it's mass producted and the packaging may look nice but the product has been made as fast as possible to get you good service but the burger for example doesn't look like the picture.
It's a marketing scam that needs to stop.
 Food companies keep using this type of colorful marketing to make sales and eliminate competition. Just look at Pepsi who owns Kentucky Fried Chicken so if you go into a KFC your drink choices are pepsi and nothing else so in the end you have no competition in drink Sales. In theory this cuts costs but you don't see the price of meals go down do you. Yep another marketing scam that is just for greedy comprates.
 This is also happening in other products like cell phones. The comercials and the picture advertizing has perfect looking people who again have been picked by focus groups to see who is the most appealing and attractive to catch your eye and draw you into their store. But the phone companies products are really all the same systems. It's just a marketing ploy to make mass sales. Just look at Mexico. The same phones with unlimited service to Mexico, USA and Canada for $9 a month but here the same service is $35 or more because our government allows them to have greedy comprate giants. The government broke up MaBell years ago when people complained of no competition and what have we done lately, we have allowed companies to buy each other out such as T-Mobile buying out Sprint. In the end no competion because they used colorful marketing and perfect people to make sales and now we have less competition.
 In conclusion my point is just to pay attention to who you're giving you're money to and who you really want to support. I choose the smaller retailers to keep my money local. It may not be as convenient to avoid companies like Walmart or Kentucky Fried Chicken but they are just running the local mom and pop stores out of business. Just like Pixar being a small company but making good movies so Disney bought them out and suddenly the small company is gone and corprate giants make more money for private planes and giant private boats. It's kinda sickening how the goverment is allowing this kind of behavior on top of the tax loopholes which never would have been alowed 40 years ago.


