I truly beleive that in order for an individual to find happiness there is different paths one can take to try and achieve this. Many in my opinion will select trying to better themselves and feeling happy by setting personal goals and then going out and trying to complete them. I feel that one can constantly improve themselves but even if somebody constantly improves there inevitably will be a sense of emptiness. This is because we as humans not only like to succeed for ourselves but we have it in us to actually feel better when other people succeed and do well because of our actions. 

I myself am more happy if I can help someone else achieve a goal and be succesful espicially if they never thought they could do it instead of experiencing success myself over and over again. One example is why I like to coach basketball. I get great joy and pride when I see others excel in a an area thatthey were not proficient in before. I think my happiness comes from the work and deication I put in which makes me feel good but extra satisfaction with seeing others do well because of my effort and de ication. True happiness for me is people saying thank you, you really made  adifference.           

We can go through life trying to be the best you can be but that does not gurantee happiness. We all have a better chance of experiencing happiness when others around our happy and it is because of our doing. That is  a sense of worth and that we actually do something that is meaningful. It may take more effortm energy and time to focus on others but in the end it will be the most rewarding. Try to be happy for others and you should get happiness in return. I want to better myself as well but bettering the lives of others and witnessing their happiness is truly I beleive the first step in obtaining happiness. If we can all foucs on otheres instead of only ourselves that is the greatest quality and will allow us to be happier people overall. Ifwe only focus on our own happiness it will eventually make people self absorbed, closed off to the surrounding world and peoples emotions and feelings. We can not survive and be emotionally strong just based upon our happiness alone. It takes a team effort of people around you to be happy as well. Think about it this way, if you are happy and surrounded by miserable people eventually you will be less happy. However, if you surround yourself with happy people and you are miserable then eventually you will become more happy.   
