         There are many different opinions on every single debate in the world we live in today. Everyone feels like they have the right answer or that their opinion is the only correct way of thinking. The debates go on and on in every aspect of the world today whether it be something as simple as the way you are supposed to cook a certain dish or if you should compete to achieve success or if you should cooperate with others. I personally believe that cooperation leads to more effective ideas or even more thoughtful conversation which leads to more success.

          When you work as a team the members of the team can bounce different ideas off of each other. This will get a lot more ideas on the table and thoughtful conversation can be had about each idea. It will also give the opportunity for more complex ideas due to the fact that two different people's ideas can be combined together to create something magnificent. It honestly broadens the horizons for any of the tasks that need to be completed. Not everyone's minds think the same so therefore what one person can see another person might see completly differently.

           Others may say that working in a team will leave one person doing all the work or giving the ideas. I agree that somtimes there are people that do not help. However, by thinking this way you are keeping away the amazing opportunity of when people do work together greatly. They feel like success will only come from the compition of people trying to reach a goal before the other person. Which is good point, however i just think there is so much more success from cooperation.
 
            In conclusion, I stand by the fact that i believe in the power of putting multiple minds together top accomplish so much more than just one person can on their own. There is just something great about when people that have so much knowledge on their own throw out ideas with others with the same amount or more knowledge. I think it is so cool to think about how many ideas came from just a couple people throwing random ideas together and having conversation and it turns into something so thought out that it seems unreal it was once just a thought in someone's mind.
