Do people achieve more success by cooperation or competition?

The prompt of this essay seems to be more focused on defeating the idea of competition being the least effective at helping an individual, or group for that matter to achieve success. I would like to argue that it isn't nessecarily neither cooperation nor competition but the manner in which these ideas are approached and the mental viewpoint of those involved that dictate the success resulting from the situation. Although one may argue that cooperation is the easily the best option because it is generally a more light hearted practice one could also say it is pandering to them and could feel like they are getting the opposite effect from the attempted cooperation; and the same can go for competition in which it can be easily mistaken as aggresion or rough on the edges because the person afflicted isn't used to that mental viewpoint/processing method.

When one is in a situation where the majority is either cooperative or competitive it can feel like a sink or swim situation if it isn't what one is used to in day to day life, but on the other hand they may fit in well and get along swimmingly with the pace of the environment if that is the pace they are used to. But that is the dichotomy of the question and situation asked of us as we all have different ways of interpreting behavior, expressing comraderie or even just thriving in a social situation we have been put into. I personally may feel like cooperation is the best for me but that is only because i'm a non confrontational person and generally avoid competition and anything that can cause rivalry or stress. While my coworker may have been raised in an environment where fun competitive play was positively reinforced, and since then has become their preferred social method of showing they care or of a friendship.While i can argue personally about why I may feel mine is more accepted and statistically proven to have less confrontation, the other may just not personally have a way of connecting that can make them be more involved in a productive manner for their own mental state.

But what does that mean for either and for success? In my opinion I feel even though we may have our own ways of communicating with expressing and receiving friendship and comraderie, we must learn to be more open minded on a day to day basis and look past our own mental lens of viewing and try to understand where the other is coming from and how to meet a middle ground with cooperation and competition. Once we can do this whether we are competing, cooperating or even meshing the 2 as needed or not needed throughout our time together, only then can we both be succesful and arguably more than before if we all can learn to accomodate one another. Imagine if we all could instantly understand everyone elses social language and the path of least resistance in communication was always taken whether it involves play and competing, or simply cooperating to take a load off of someone; and that we all collectively took that path in the best interest of ourselves and others for the sake of success and accomplishing things we feel important to us. I personally feel that would make all of us better people and communicators, and in a way level the playing field so neither are more capable of achieving success, we all would have plenty of success and all of us would be better off for it without comparing our individual prefereed method of enjoying ourselves to achieve what we need and want.

Retrospectively I can say i haven't really answered the question objectively, but I really feel this isn't solely a question that needs or has an objective viewpoint. It feels malleable like we humans should be more often and we should see the silver lining in between these things to learn how to optimize our personal growth and others as much as we can and be more open to our acquaintances.

I also appreciate the chance to get my mind working i actually enjoyed writing this alot more than i expected, so thank you very much! 
