    People will be most happy when they are fulfilled in their lives. Helping others find their own happiness, or working for the betterment of society or humanity as a whole is a path toward fulfillment for those are seeking it. Certainly, if large swathes of people begin helping others to true happiness, all will be closer to achieving it. Not to say that one's own goals cannot be fulfilling, but working exclusively on one's own goals may end up leading to a selfish dismissal of other people. Ultimately, society as it is today can only survive by adapting to serve more communal goals, rather than personal. A growing feeling of isolation felt across age groups and economic backgrounds can be addressed if more people contribute to the happiness of others. 
    Helping others in the pursuit of happiness, and having that work pay off will always be fulfilling. Seeing others truly happy as a result of your work without needing to selfishly take credit for it is an amazing thing. However, some would posit that ignoring your own happiness in favor of others is fruitless and would only lead to frustration and lost time. This is assumed due to the selfish nature of modern society. If it is believed that helping others is a waste of time, the only true way to happiness is to complete your own goals. However, this cannot be true. It is only because of self-centeredness that society has reached such a point. If this course can be reversed by promoting selflessness, helping others, and a communal attitude society may yet be healed. 
    The task of assisting others to happiness may not be an easy one, but it is a necessary one. The most common example is parents helping their children to success. This is common and expected; why must such an attitude of assistance end at the family line? If more people were willing to help others in such a way, more of those same people would find happiness. Indeed, such a process would undoubtedly become a positive feedback loop. If someone is helped to happiness, surely he too would feel inclined to help others in turn. The more collective trust is shared between people, the healthier society will become. The best road forward for more people to achieve happiness is the path which is traveled together.
