As the modern world strives to end poverty and lift billions of people around the world to what some cold a more westernized lifestyle with vehicles, shopping sprees, in-door plumbing and at least one international trip a year many laud the simplistic life that many of the worlds poor live. The emphasis on family values and being content with what you have are seen as virtues in contrast to the fast moving consumerist western lifestyle. But the truth is most people want to have more than they have and social media mixed in with the natural human ego makes us all strive to be more opulent even if it means getting into debt or fantasizing about what we cant afford. Could materialism be blamed for this pursuit to achieve a higher social class and the trinkets that come along with it or is materialism a natural and healthy human expression?

I feel that materialism is the opposite side of the polarity of humanity. It represents the feminine principle which has as its main function the effect of casting illusions and creating diversions. Without these illusions and diversion we won't truly know ourselves; as knowing ourselves requires us to walk through and not be consumed by the myriad of emotions and tugs to our ego that the material plane can cause.

The flip side to the feminine polarity is that of the masculine. This represents sacrifice, self constraint and rejecting the more material side of life( an extreme). The masculine principle strives to be of this world but not in it and seeks to not be distracted by "lesser concerns."

The whole point though is to be balanced. To have an appreciation for beauty and enjoy the material comforts of this world, because they are not superficial like we have been sold to believe; instead they are also Godly and needed for harmony. We should strive to have dominion over the material aspects of life so we can enjoy them without being destroyed.

Realistically, modern society is not anymore materialistic than ones of the past; well with their gold, silver, furs, slaves and an abundance of helpers, it is in fact that we have a more equitable distribution of wealth so the average man and woman can acquire material comforts more easily. Besides, if we arent spending the money we make and acquiring possessions then what is the point of work and society in the first place? We should just go back to nature and live off of the land; and even then we created garments and tools for our aid and satisfaction.
