Happiness is relative to everyone, but many believe that true happiness only comes when one sets goals for themselves and then achieves them.  Small goals, large goals, and even lifetime goals keeps one focused and provides happiness as each is achieved.

A goal may be small such as walking twenty minutes a day for a week, providing happiness at the end of the week.  Happiness not only for achieving the goal but taking steps toward a larger goal such as losing weight.  Once the weight is lost, one could set a lifetime goal of maintaning weight and overall fitness.

The above is not only an example but something I personally achieved nearly seven years ago.  At that time, I came to a bad point in my life and I decided I must make some changes.  I was going through a very difficult time in my life, plus I had let myself get in terrible physical and mental shape.  There was a point on that I really didn't want to continue on with life any more, but I decided to press on.  So I vowed to make some changes and make my health and mental state a top priority.  I set small goals of walking and diet.  I saw results immediately.  I set larger goals of losing a certian amout of weight by a date and running a 5K, and I achieved those.  Now I've set a lifetime goal of remaining generally physically fit.  I've done well in keeping all the promises I made to myself and in the end, I lost 127 pounds.  This has made me extremely happy on so many levels.  In turn, my happiness has spread to others and even inspired a few people to get in better physical and mental shape.

Some may say that happiness comes from helping others and having other worldly goals.  This is admirable but does little for the self.  Also, some people cannot be made happy by arbitrarlily setting goals around them.  They may find some happiness achieving goals like this, but life is too short to concentrate completely on the happiness of others.

In short, setting goals for one's self is the most sure fire way to become truly happy.  If one is happy with themselves, they will naturally spread their happiness to others.  To make others truly happy, one must be happy with themselves first.
