    There are many things in the world today that can be attributed to our advancement in tecnology and invention. For example: we have robots that can perform complex life saving surguries with the utmost percision, or we have vehicles that alert us when another car is too close to avoid collision. These are all things that were once considered materialistic items. Our society may have an unhealty attachment to "things", but to call it unhealthy is rather unfair. In some cases, that materialistic thing may lead to greater things. Modern society as a whole should not be criticized for being materialistic.

     That life saving robot began as a toy robot that a child may have received from their parents as a gift long ago, and tinkering with it may have prompted a career in engeneering later in life. That vehicle that now has collision detection was unheard of to those who swore they would only ride their horse and carrige, but now it is cutting down traffic fatalities. If these items that were once considered "materialistic" never fell into the right hands, we wouldn't have the innovative and life saving technologies we do today.

    We as a modern society can absolutely have an unhealthy attachment to materials. For example, people may have psychological disorders that cause them to hoard items that may seem to have no sentimental value to others but themselves. Through treatment and therapy, these people can be helped to over come that. People may for obsessions with objects like their cell phones, social media, clothes, etc. but what harm is that really causing? Unless it causes harm to someone else there is no need to criticize those people. 

    In conclusion, I feel that society as a whole isn't too materialistic. Many good things have come out of those "materialistic" items that have benefited humanity. Modern society should not be criticized for being materialistic. Just turn a blind eye if other's materializm bothers you, you never know what new groundbreaking inventions may come from those materials. 
