What defines success? Markers of success can be found in areas such as one's income, happiness, and achievements in life. A modern day definition of success in a capitalistic society can be broadly defined with high achievement and lucrative employment. Competition fuels certain individuals to strive to overtake others, and pursue self-success. Using an individualistic definition of success, marked by self-improvement as well as personal gain, competition allows specific individual people to achieve more success than cooperation. At the same time, such competition brings other people down, essentially feeding the success of the few and starving out all else. Even so, this drive for domination allows those few exemplarary individuals to succeed more so than collaboration with others. 

Evidence to the prosperous few gaining tremendous amounts of success can be seen all over the globe. Many well-known entrepenuers veered off the beaten path to pursue their own independent and lucrative exploits. As these companies grew, competition between them encouraged growth and innovation. Monopolies in business suffer from stagnancy, market manipulation, and unchecked prices (such as with Epi-Pens) to the cost of workers and consumers. On the other hand, competition allows consumers options and allows a market with expectations that fit the consumer. Competition between businesses allows businesses to improve and positively impact the consumer.

On a smaller, more individualistic scale, competition between individuals fuels certain individual's drive to improve. As previously alluded to however, for every one person successful in the competitive culture, there are ten others less so. Not everyone is driven by competition. This culture is not for everyone, and encourages exemplary performance from those fueled by this individualistic drive to prove oneself against others. For those who this culture fits however, and when not exploited, rivalries and competition drive them to continuously improve.

Some might point out how individuals would not be able to achieve such level of achievement if not for the help and aid of others. And that is a great point! We live in a complicated and interconnected society, and naturally everyone interacts with others on a daily basis. There is little way to provide evidence to the contrary, and I cannot refute this point without such evidence.

In conclusion, competition helps specific types of people achieve more success than cooperation would. Cooperation brings more people on a level playing field and level of understanding, while competition raises a talented few and leaves behind most of those who are less gifted. 


