While competition does propel people to success, cooperation produces significant results and more can be achieved when people work together.  Some real-world examples of this is in the profession of teaching and in athletics.
Although teaching may be thought of as a profession where teachers teach alone, teachers often collaborate and contribute to the school community together.  Students, particularly in middle school and high school, recognize when teachers are working together as a team and when they're not.  When teachers cooperate by holding to the same expectations across classrooms, students see that there's consistency.  Teachers should model mutual respect and communication, instead of the sink or swim mentality.  Students buy into this collectivist thinking and they mirror that cooperation amongst themselves.  This creates a more positive learning environment for everyone because students move beyond thinking only about their needs and desires. 
Athletics can also be seen as an individulistic endeavor, but no athlete reaches their peak on their own.  Any team--whether it's soccer, baseball, basketball, etc--has to function together or they won't reach their full potential.  Even in individual sports such as track and field, these athletes aren't training on their own.  They have teams that they look to for support and coaches that encourage them.  It's not enough just to be really fast or really strong, there needs to be outside support from teammates, coaches, nutritonists, etc so athletes can be well-rounded and be well-prepared.
In conclusion, a focus on competiton may work for short-term goals, but for long-term success cooperation is the better choice.  We can achieve more when we work together and learn from each other.  The exchange of ideas and skills is necessary to further ourselves and society as a whole.  In today's world, the most successful people and businesses are usually those that have been supported by other people and resources around them.
