Wherever we go, we are constantly bombarded visual clutter. We see brightly-colored images, loud advertisements that often seem to have little to do with the product, and celebrities whose images are their entire brand. These images and impressions are often misleading and lead to disappointment whenever we encounter the actual products. People are too heavily affected by these misleading images and impressions, leading to a false sense of our reality, disappointment in products, and an overall lowered sense of confidence.

We cannot escape the glamor of celebrity. Everywhere we look, we see picture-perfect bodies, flawless skin, and immaculate style. Rarely are we given a glimpse into what goes into these images. As a result, average people tend to pick apart their own appearance, leading many to eating and emotional disorders. This even funnels down into our own photos we post online. Because we want to appear as perfect as our peers, we only post pictures that are heavily filtered and cropped or altered so as not to show the reality of the situation. We no longer want to see reality, but instead strive for a perfection that is constantly moving farther away from us.

Products do the same thing. We watch advertisements or read articles all about specific products that are bound to make our lives easier. Each new gadget is marketed as life-changing, when it rarely ever is. Each new serum, mask, or lotion will turn back the clock on ageing and make us appear ten years younger. Each new kitchen gadget will save us countless hours and stress in the kitchen on our lifelong quest to feed ourselves and our families the most nutritious, most scratch-made meals humanly possible. Each new cleaner on the market will decrease the elbow grease needed to get that wine stain out of our bright white carpets, leading to more time available for the things we really want to do, such as traveling and spending time with our families.

The problem is that none of these things do what is advertised. Sure, they may work very well for their stated purpose, but that is truly not what is being advertised. What they advertise is the perfect, unachievable life. We will never have flawless skin and tiny waists like in our perfectly-photoshopped magazine and Instagram photos.

In conclusion, our confidence and sense of self is the most heavily affected by the constant bombardment of images and impressions. When we are constantly told that we will only be good enough if we use this product or do this activity, we begin to question our own judgment.  The perfect life is a fantasy being marketed to us as a reality that we can only achieve through buying specific products or emulating specific people. We sacrifice our own self-worth and sanity at the altar of celebrity and capitalism. 
