You can't judge a book by its cover. It's something we are taught early in life, but how often do we forget these things when going about our busy lives? From actors on television with perfect body types to commercials showing picture perfect food items, we are constantly bombarded with images not do not reflect the true nature of things. This might leave you wondering if images and impressions have too much of an effect on people. I believe they do. Let's begin with the barage of beauty based ads on television.

You can't spend 30 minutes watching television nowadays, without seeing multiple commercials advertising everything from Botox, beauty products, and body augmentation services. Why have these become so popular? The simple answer is that we are continuously being fed media that makes people feel inferior when it comes to their own bodies. From magazines, television, and internet ads all feature men and women who visibly have no flaws, but that is not the case. These individuals spend hours having their hair and makeup done. Many times, computer imaging is used to alter their appearance as well. When people see these doctored images, it makes them feel bad and makes them want to buy a product that might improve their appearance. Many times, these products are not even used in the actual ad, or are used with other products to enhance their effects. This is unacceptable and harmful to people fooled by the smoke and mirrors. The media is a great example of this. 

When it comes to media, the people delivering news, politicians, and public figures can have a direct effect on how people react to them and their message. For example, if you see a clean cut politician, with nice clothes, you're more likely to listen to what they have to say. If they were wearing dirty clothing, had unkept hair, and overall looked like they just rolled out of bed, you would be less likely to take them seriously. Should looks really effect what a person has to say? I say no. The topic and correct information about it are the most important thing. Appearances can be deceiving. The same can be said of commercials about food.

How many times have you seen a commercial showing, for example, a large hamburger overflowing with ingredients. You decide to go to the establishment selling this item, only to be given a small hamburger made of bread, more than anything else. The patty is small. The vegetables soggy and unappetizing. Why is this? Simple. After you have been drawn in by the promise of food, the company no longer cares about whether or not you recieve something similar to what you saw in the ad. They have your money and that is what they needed. Deception achieved. When it comes to product packaging, the results are similar.

Product packaging tends to show the item much larger than its real size. The box might show a huge meal, but upon opening, the product is 3/4 the size shown. In tiny writing, there might be a disclaimer stating that the product has been enhanced, but most people don't look at find print, while choosing a quick meal. It can also be noted that the product on the box often looks much more appetizing that the real product. This is done by appropriate use of lighting and the use of fake food made to look like the product. When taking photos of the product for the box, if they used the real product, it would likely go bad and start to look less than appetizing, so often, fake food is used to enhance the look of the photo. This leads to people being misled about the quality and look of the food. What about the other side of the coin. What about people who think appearances don't change anything?

One could argue that showing images of beautiful people on T.V. might encourage others to take better care of their health. Thus, leading to an improvement in their lives. Politicians and other media figure's appearance is genrally ignored by the people watching. People are only interested in the topic at hand. Showing inaccurate images of food gets ignored by the general populous, as they just want food. It doesn't have to look pretty. These are all arguments I can agree with to a certain degree, but I still stand by what I have previously written.

When it comes down to it, appearances do matter and can have a genuine effect on people and their lives. We need to stop using camera tricks and computer editing to make things appear different than they really are. In a world where the line between reality and fiction is becoming so blurred, we need to have some consistency, when it comes to what is the truth. When we don't know what to believe, and everyone shares different versions of the truth, the world can become a very scary place.


