As much as we may not want to admit it, products and materials really define modern living. It comes down to the simple statement: "people like their stuff." While society is often criticized for being too materialistic, the reality is that we rely heavily on material things, particularly as products advance.
I would be the first to tell you that of all the things I have, my family comes first. If it came down to choosing between the people I love or the objects I own, there would be no hestation. But I also don't think society should be criticized for being materialistic. As mentioned in the prompt, aqcuiring possessions and spending money is a vital source of meaning and happiness for most people today. We attach meaning to things and develop connections with inanimate objects. Many of us create core memories at a particular dining table, while watching television, or playing games. The reality is that in order to have these experiences, we rely on materials. For example, I spend 40 hours a week away from my family working a full-time job. While I often find my job fulfilling, the truth is that I wouldn't be there if it weren't for the compensation. I work in order to make money, which I then spend on objects that will add meaning, fun, and convenience to everyday life. With products being marketed at every direction, it is hard to ignore the desire to own certain "things." There are always new things I want, and I don't think there is anything wrong with wanting to acquire objects that make life more enjoyable. If there is meaning and it brings you joy (thank you Marie Kondo), then I see no reason to feel guilty or to criticize people for being materialistic. We are a product of the society in which we live and the fact of the matter is we are a society that relies heavily on everchanging and everadvancing products. 
I understand there are also reasons not to embrace materialism. For example, materialism may be contributing to inequality in America. This is yet another way to categorize people; do they have the latest and best technology? With the increasing gap between the rich and poor, this is not a fair way to evaluate the essence of a person. While inevitable, I do acknowledge this as a downside of the importance that society places on acquiring and spending money. 
Despite the inevitable drawbacks posed by living in a materialstic society, I do not think there is sufficient reason to criticize. We have more options for products than ever before and they are readily available to us. Commercials and advertisements contribute to our constant pursuit of new materials. And in modern society, the pursuit of materials corresponds to the pursuit of happiness. 
