Everyone has their own individual ideas of what happiness is and how to achieve it, but nobody has uncovered a single concrete answer. There are generally two separate camps of thought, one being that happiness comes from focusing on one's own goals, with the other feeling that happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others. The more convincing point of view is the first, in that pursuing one's dreams and personal goals is what will bring happiness, because this actually encompasses the second point of view. One is only likely to be happy when focusing on other peoples' happiness if that action or goal is something that aligns with their own wants, goals, and happiness.

When one is following their own dreams and passions and making choices with their own goals in mind, they are setting themselves on a path to be happy. It's only when you live for yourself and make decisions with your own happiness in mind that you can actually achieve the level of contentness with your life that is conducive to happiness. 

On the other hand, when you only focus on the happiness of others, you may end up sacrificing your own happiness. Though many would argue and respond to this that the joy of making others happy is enough to outweigh all else, this is a very optimistic but poorly founded claim. Making someone else happy indeed does tend to bring one joy. However, if one is sacrificing their own desires, goals, and passions in order to bring happiness to others, that is a behavior that is often referred to as people pleasing, and can lead to one losing their own sense of self in the pursuit of pleasing others. With this, it is only human nature to grow to resent those others for their happiness when you have given up your own. 

Now consider, when one is following their own dreams and chasing their own goals, one such goal may very well be to improve humanity or bring happiness to others. People who are happy in their own lives may even be more likely to pursue these things. The difference is that in this case, the goal, although it is technically focused on something other than their own happiness, is still their own personal goal that they set in line with their own passions and desires. Thus, it is a more true happiness that they will experience than if they simply tried to please others without their own happiness in mind as well. 

An excellent example of this concept in action is when one partner in a relationship carries out a few extra chores around the house in order to surprise their significant other and make them happy. While at first glance, it may seem that the individual is focusing on the happiness of others, it is more likely that it is a personal goal of theirs to make their partner happy because they love them and would get happiness from their reaction. It could even be that their personal goal is to improve the relationship. This is very different from someone who does extra chores around the house in order to make their housemates happy, even though they hate those chores and are unhappy doing them. This is especially true if the goal of bringing others' happiness is really more of a goal of avoiding others' negative feelings or reactions.  

Altogether, one is more likely to really achieve happiness if they focus on their own personal goals rather than solely on the happiness of others. While it is largely agreed that doing things for other people and their happiness does typically bring one joy, people are unlikely to be very happy for very long if they always place other peoples' happiness before their own goals and desires. The people who are most likely to be happy are those who focus on their own wants, passions, and goals, with some goals that do focus on making others happy, but only in accordance with that person's own goals. 
