Modern Society Should be Criticized for Being Materialistic.

Modern society has become so materialistic, that it's forgotten what it means to really live.  Some, if not all, of the best pleasures in life are free, and yet year after year we continue to attempt to "live up to the Jones'" by buying more and more "stuff," some of which has no real purpose and adds no real meaning to our lives.

While some material items are necessary to make life easier and let us enjoy our time, the vasy majority of "things" are hedonic and not utilitarian.  I'm not talking about toasters and microwave ovens, I'm not referring to cars or even televisions.  The aforementioned items are "things" that most of us need or want, and they truly make our life pleasureable and easier.   What I'm talking about is the drive for people to own the latest model of car, the latest pair of Nikes, (even though nothing is wrong with their current shoes) Gucci Handbags, whatever color Versace sweater the morning fashion shows tell us is "in," and jewelry on every finger, for ever occassion.  Men buying their sports equipment and rowing machines that will sit in a closet.. Women buying their hand newest Iphone plus case even though the one they have is six months old.  The "stuff" they accumulate will eventually fill landfills, creating more trash on earth. Not only that, but most of it will give them only a momentary thrill or a small bit of enjoyment before going on a shelf somewhere never to be seen again.  

Buying "stuff," has an impact.  It takes up the worlds energy and resources. It pollutes our landfills, it creates longer days for workers in the poorest countries to churn out your latest long sleeve sports shirt that you'll wear twice and then throw in the back of your closet.  So, why this attraction to stuff?   It's possible that the more we buy, the more we need.  The more we work empty lives without meaning to buy things, the more hours we have to work to pay for them.  It's a repeating and viscious cycle. We should attempt to get back to earlier days of life, keeping and maintaining our material items that actually help us, like appliances and radios, but do we really need the latest brand of everything and 30 pairs of shoes? We should be more conscientious when it comes to our buying habits and patterns.  We should consider things like the environment, the workers who make our material goods, and our own spiritual, physical and mental health. 

The replace the need to buy things, you can always take a walk in nature, pray, find your social life again instead of alienating others, read a book or learn something, cultivate a new hobby or interest, buy a dog, do volunteer work-- there are so many things you can do, to avoid just buying your way into oblivious and leaving this earth with monterous debt and the inability to see the light beyond your pile of gucci handbags.  So, yes, modern America should be criticized for contributing to so much waste, long hours and energy spend making, producing and shipping stuff that is otherwise pointless and unnessescary.  It's time for a wake up call that will not only contribute to saving our earth, it may also save our lives and show us that there are so many important things in life that do not involve material objects.  Faith, love, friendship and exerperience, for starters. 
