   In the 195o's a plane leaving La Guardia crashed on a nearby island. Some will recognize this island's name: Riker's. Riker's Island is most famous for housing an almost entirely criminal population, as it is home to one of New York City's largest prisons. On this December night, however, a rag-tag group of petty prisoners would become heroes, thanks to their cooperation and their efforts-- as a team.

   It is not often thought that a group of imprisoned fellows would band together so selflessly. We would like to believe that their divergence from social norms and mores is exactly the thing that landed them in such a place as Riker's Prison, and yet this story is easily researchable. A helpless Riker's employee-- a man who oversought the inmates-- looked on as a commercial aircraft crashed onto his island and freed the inmates, in an effort to save the individuals made victim to this airborne accident. Those who worked under him assured the overseer it was insanity to let loose these men who filled the cells of Riker's, and yet he persisted. Those exact inmates went on to save dozens of would-be casualties; men, women and children. They fought flame and acrid smoke to save these people, and when all was said and done, one-by-one they returned to their cells. Each and every man freed that night in the rescue attempt found their way back to their imprisoned lives.

   I think of the Riker's heroes, now, and of the Olympics. Divided by coutry, men and women compete to prove their superior prowess in a given sport. They achieve, for their country, mild recognition by a fraction of the population. These competitors swim, run and jump their ways to fame, but what is gained? Are lives saved? Will these athletic guestures do anything to prolong the lives of those who watch? Easily, it is to be believed, the answer is no.

   In order for us, as a species, to succeed we must function as a multi-faceted machine. A machine with many parts, ebbing and flowing in the direction of the future. The great-grandchildren of this generation will not remember the fastest swimmer from France, but 70 years later here a millenial thinks back on the extraordinary efforts of prisoners drawn together by circumstances that demanded their cooperation. We must move together, if we are to move forward.
