Cooperation is the key to success.  Often times, it's impossible to know all of the answers,  solve all of the problems, and create solutions.  We have to rely on others, for their knowledge and their assistance.  It's a relationship that gives and takes.   

Even as a leader, cooperation is a key tool.  The old manager/employee model is outdated.  Everyone is part of the team, everyone contributes.  We succeed and fail as a group.  Working together allows for unique ideas to be presented and avoids a single point of view.  Working together creates a positive environment.   Weaker teammates can develop in a nurturing envionment.  Stronger teammates can also develop; they sharpen their skills as leadership and mentoring, working with weaker teammates.

Working in teams has many benefits.  At some point, some one on the team will be absent, on leave, have a large project that must be completed in a time senstive managers.  Working together makes it easier for someone to step in and help.  It creates a more consistent work product.  

Everyone has stregnths and weaknesses.  Working in a team allows everyone to play off of their stregnths and find support for their weaknesses.  Balance is key though; you shouldn't have a team that all have the same stregnth or same weakness.  Diversity in skills, abilities, and points of view are valuable to the team effort.

Some may feel that competition is the key to success, and indeed some times competition does push people to be their best, while cooperation may allow some to slack.  With competition, there is always a winner and a loser.  It can create a negative working environment and instead of inspring people to do their best, it can make people want to try less.  

It's possible to have a team atmosphere that is cooperative while also maintaining some level of competition.  There is always a strongest link and a weakest link.  However, they are links-links within a team.  A good leader will help a team be competitive within itself while continuing to stregthen the team bonds.

When we look at successful models/practices, it's generally a team atmosphere.  The president relies on experts, advisors, and other staff to help make the best decisions for the country.  Politicians consistently cooperate with each other to get their items on the agenda, to get a bill passed, and these are people from opposing teams.  Even when you look at sports, solo sports are still a team effort that requires cooperation-there is the athlete but also coaches and other advisors that must all work together to succeed. 

Cooperation is simply the best model, allowing for individuality while fostering a positive group atmosphere.








