Machiavelli once proposed a question in his book, "The Prince": Is it better to be loved or to be feared? His answer was that fear was a more effective way of achieving success and power, but real world scenarios, as well as common sense, will say otherwise. Cooperation is the foundation of a successful, peaceful world, but the only way that it can happen is if everyone cooperates.
One well known example of successful cooperation is a well-known phenomena called "The Prisoners' Dilemma". The famous story illustrates a hypothetical that depicts two prisoners who are faced with a choice: If you testify against your partner, then you'll be set free. However, the narrator states that he will offer the same deal to the prisoner's partner. If you and your partner both choose to betray each other, then you will both will earn 7 years in jail. If one chooses betrayal and not the other, the one who betrays the other will be set free, while the one who is sold out will be sent to prison for 10 years. If neither decides to testify against their partner, then they will both serve only 2 years in prison. The choice that's most tempting to either party is the one where they sell out their friend in exchange for their freedom. However, the option that leads to the greatest net good is for both parties to remain silent. 
That being said, a critical issue in the realm of this hypothetical is that both parties would need to make a sacrifice in order to reach the ideal path. The Prisoners' Dilemma" mirrors the battle between competiton and cooperation. Competition, much like the scenario where the prisoner sells out his friend, is inherently selfish. In order to get to the top, it is necessary for others to be at the bottom. In a situation like that, hierarchy is essential, but overall, the person who benefits from hierachy will necessarily do so at the expense of others. Similarly to The Prisoners' Dilemma, the expense of power is more costly than the option to cooperate. Two years in jail for each prisoner would equal four years total.
