       Happiness is a emotional state of mind. A person can work very hard to acomplish success in their own life. For some that is good enough. There are also individuals who have found great joy in doing the work that influences the lives of others. However, what happens when self fullfilment doesn't gain the completeness of the desire to be appreciated? On the other hand, what happens when filling the cup of others depletes a person of self care and energy? The question still remains, are people more likely to have happiness by focusing on their own personal goals or on the happiness of others?
       In my opinion, there takes a balance between pursuing one's own dreams and doing the work for the good of something bigger than one's self to truly be happy. It is possible to have both or as some would say, have your cake and eat it to. Self focused indivials do not have to choose the pursuit of self happiness over the pursuit to help others. For example, former President Obama was able to acheive the highest office in the United States. This took a great deal of work and determination. It undoubtly represented a position that is all about service and representation of others. He had the job of serving everyone who was an American citizen. However, the presidency also represented personal achievement. The personal acheivement of one of the most monumental accoplishments possible was attained. It provided luxuries, power, and perks along side the requirement to serve.  Even in serving the country as president, he was able to pursue personal goals. Also, he was able to focus not only his happiness, but also the happiness of his wife, children, and so many others.
       A balance of pursuing personal goals for yourself in addition to hapiness for others is what really makes people happy. When people focus on more than themselves they are able to reap the benefits of that service. Those benefits may come by way of purpose, gratitude, love, peace of mind, and even finances. Additonally, when people focus on their own goals they have the luxury of self fulfillment and achievement. In conclusion, people are likely to be happy if they focus on both personal goals and happiness of others.
