In today's world, people are driven to make more money so they can spend it. Many people are constantly looking for higher paying jobs so they can afford to buy huge houses and spend more money on cars, clothes, and other things. People love to buy high brand items and are quick to turn their nose at reusing others' gently used items. I think modern society should be criticized for being too materialistic. 

In today's world there are so many thrift store options or utilizing a local town's buy/sell/trade forums to help cut down on the production of more items that aren't always necessary. But I constantly see so many people think they're "too good" to shop at Goodwill or to buy their neighbor's things at a yard sale. If people would be less focused on "brand new" items then they would see that there are perfectly good usable options for what ends up being less than half the cost most of the time. I used to collect pins from Disney. In that community I constantly see people fighting over being the first ones to buy the new pins so they can add to their collection. This leads to items selling out so quickly because there is a low stock. Then I see many people turn around and re-sell them for over double the original price because they know that people will be desperate enough to pay those high prices. People can only think about buying the brand new item even though it most likely will end up sitting on their display board taking up space. I also see it a lot in the bamboo clothing community. People are constantly rushing to buy new bamboo pajamas for their children without actually needing them. I've seen people who only joined the community a month or two ago and have already bought over 40 pairs of pajamas for their kids just because they "couldn't say no" to buying more. It becomes a compulsion for people to buy the next new print even if they don't necessarily like it. I also see many people selling their unused or gently used pajamas for more than triple the price because it's a "limited edition" or hard to find print and they know people will spend upwards of $100 just to say they own it. 

There is a small movement of people who are trying to focus on experiences instead of presents for children on their birthdays. I love this movement and want to try and implement it with my daughter as she grows up! The memories from experiences like going to the aquarium or on a vacation will be more fufilling to our family's relationship than if I buy her a bunch of toys for her birthday. However, I know that some people think it's okay to be materialistic because spending money brings them joy. Finding the exact item they're looking for and being able to afford can make someone very happy! But usually that leads to wanting more things and then more things and eventually they'll never stop looking for the next thing. It also won't bring them true joy because that comes from human connection, not items. If people focused on other ways to spend their money that could benefit themselves or their family instead of spending it on useless material items then I think people would be happier overall. I definitely think today's society is too materialistic and people need to think more about what they actually need to spend their money on instead of just buying anything they think they want.
