Materialism is a buzzword that seems to be appearing everywhere you look. It is thrown around as an insult, and also used as a personality trait by the rich and famous who wear it as a badge of honor. This has led to many "regular" people taking pride in their own constant pursuit of luxury and excess. However, this is something that we should be taking steps to move away from, for the sake of our health and longevity. In a world of fast fashion and disposable products, we should aspire to need less. The desire for material items has led us to be mentally unwell, struggling for money, and a major burden on the environment. From a mental health, economic, and environmental standpoint, human beings in general could benefit from reducing the number of things they own, and aspire to own.

The environment is a major concern that we should all be paying attention to. The constant promotion of material goods has led to a shift in our consumption habits away from making things last and towards throwing out what we have to make room for something better. There is huge environmental impacts of this sort of culture. Things like electronics and textiles produce a massive amount of waste that does not break down and increases issues such as global warming and habitat destruction. We as humans should all be doing whatever we can to help keep the earth healthy for ourselves, future generations, and also plant and animal life that share it with us. By focusing less on what we own, we could reduce both the amount of materials being taken from the earth, and the amount of waste being put into it.

The world economy is very unstable now compared to how it has been throughout history. Wages are lower compared to cost of living than they have been before, and that leaves more and more people living paycheck to paycheck and not saving as much for their future. We are a generation of people who likely will not see retirement. This is something that living a less materialistic lifestyle could change for the better. If we could spend slightly more on longer lasting items rather than replacing what we have, there would be more money left in our budgets to save for the future. The better quality products that we switch to would drastically outlast the lower quality ones, saving us a lot of money in the long run. 

Many young people face mental health struggles in their lives. This is only exacerbated by the idolization of those who are constantly buying more and more items. By allowing those things to be your goal, you find yourself constantly falling behind and needing more and more to make you happy. Rather than relating to people on topics that really matter, we associate ourselves with others based on the clothing they wear or the car they drive. If we were able to leave this materialism behind, we could find happiness in other things, rather than in the number of items we own. This could have incredible effects on society as a whole, when people were happier and more fulfilled in their day to day lives and with what they have.

People may claim that there is no harm in being materialistic. They will say that the cause of environmental issues is major corporations and not the individual, and that we should be able to do what we please. While it is true that corporations have much more of an impact on the current state of the environment than each individual does, there is no harm that can be done by each individual doing their best to make improvements. Another claim that people in favor of materialism may make is that it is important for advances in science. However, the opposite could also be seen as true. If people were less interested in buying new things all the time, companies would have to work even harder to develop new things worth owning. Advances and developments may come even faster as a result of some health skepticism from consumers.

Overall, materialism is not something that we should take pride in as a society. There is no benefit to being materialistic, as it simply leads to negative impacts on the environment, the economy, and on ourselves as individuals. If we were to grow away from this idealization of materialism and opulence, we would find ourselves living slower, simpler, happier lives that would make us feel much more fulfilled. The economy would improve as each individual was able to save money, while also spending slightly more when they needed to. Most importantly, the environment could begin to heal from decades of being exploited for resources to feed the demand for products There is truly no end to the benefits that living a slow and minimal life could bring to our society, and we should make more of an effort to be content with less.
