I believe that people are more likely to be happy when they focus on their own personal goals and happiness, as opposed to striving for the happiness of others. Scholars, teachers, religious leaders, and laypeople will often disagree with me on this point, but the evidence and the logic behind my belief will, I hope, be self-evident. 

Happiness is a feeling, and as such it is dependant on circumstances with which our emotions, or our "emotional self", can interact. This kind of interaction can take place with other people, and in fact it often does. Entertainment, service outreach, and community engagement are examples of ways in which a person can pursue happiness through the edification of other people. When the juggler sees the child laugh, there is happiness available from which the juggler can steal a bit of joy for himself. When the teacher guides the student into blissful accomplishment, there is satisfaction to be shared among the learned one and the one learning. But to rely on this poses a problem, at least in the context of predicting happiness.  

Every outward search for happiness relies on feedback from someone else. That is to say, in order for me to be happy, you have to be happy as well. There are methods that insinuate a certain predictability to the happy returns; sex, drugs, rock-n-roll, food, luxury, success. Conversely, to search internally for happiness only requires that you find your own happiness in order to accomplish the goal. Thus, if a personal goal is to be relied upon to produce happiness, the goal needs to be no less and no more than the discovery of happiness. No feedback, no confirmation, no affirmation. Just the simple, personal, and passionate pursuit of a goal are all that is necessary. 
While it is clear that happiness can be found through the prioritization of other peoples' well-being, it is much more likely that an internal search for happiness through the achievement of personal goals will always be a more probable venture.  

How, you might be wondering, is this possible? My assertion is that the possibility of anything, before it has been tested, exists at the will and whim of imagination. Can you dream it? Can you believe in the possibility of existence? Then you are nearly accomplished already when it comes to happiness. The big secret with happiness is that all you have to do is want it enough to feel it, and suddenly you will find that it appears. Every time, without question. It is the same for sadness, consequently. This is how we can know that happiness is possible through simple internal quest. If you want to be sad, or angry, or frustrated, or irritated, all you need is to find a small stimulus and allow yourself to react. The same is true for happiness. If you offer yourself the stimulus, you are free to respond with happy reactions. And so in this way, in terms of predictability, the internal effort will always produce results. 

Consider a birthday party. The celebrated anniversary is only a happy occasion if the person being celebrated allows themselves to be adored for the day. Should they decide to reject the adulation of friends and family, the participants would walk away (likely) in bruised and battered emotional states. But if I celebrate my own birthday, without the help of anyone else, then I am free to enjoy and bask in the marking of another anniversary. Perhaps more importantly, I am free to tailor the stimuli to the things I know will make me happy. To accept responsibility for one's own happiness, and tie it intimately to one's own personal desires, dreams, and goals, is the only way to predictably find happiness. And it is an easy way as well.  

To the people who are out trying to find externally validated happiness, I hope that this eplanation has been helpful, and that you find yourself more deeply absorbed in the internal pursuit of your own good health. 
