    Happiness is an elsusive concept although the search for it is arguably the greatest defining trait of all humanity. The argument between focusing on the self or on others is vital to that search and for this essay I've decided to come down on the side of focusing on the betterment of oneself. 
    I like to consider myself a kind and generous person, and I'm loathe to consider anything selfish, so initially the idea of focusing on personal happiness repulsed me. I've spent a great portion of my own life taking care of other people, going above and beyond, putting in extra effort even when I knew the end result was negligible to myself and might possibly only result in a smile from someone else. Today I write not from a place of resentment or any kind of disappointment but out of an honest bewilderment and maybe just a little bit of fatigue. Not fatigue at having helped, but more at the realization that my bag of tools needs to be refreshed. I don't think I've done everything I could to help others, far from it, I think that I've come to a point in my life where the help I can offer to others is narrowing and maybe what I need is to take a break and refocus on the things that I can change about myself. Things I can learn in order to help others and to help myself. Because really I think the problem is just that I don't feel as relevant anymore. I think most people at the very least need that base level of existence to their lives. As we age we kind of lose that relevance. I don't believe we have to though, because anyone can learn anything new and if you have the time and opportunity then you should take it. 
    So in closing, for someone that desires to help others, sometimes through no fault of our own the world tries to move on without us. And we reject the philosophy that could keep us going. I don't know that I can change anyone's mind but if you read this then hopefully you'll realize that taking the time to focus on yourself can help you to find that strength to keep going.

