There is no denying that much of society has become quite materialistic. It seems clear to me that overall society has become increasing materialistic over the many years of our exists but by how much I am uncertain. From what I have observed the trend of criticizing materialism has become increasingly common. The question posed: Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic?

While initially contemplating this question I am not inclined one way or another and as such I feel further deliberation is required. The first question I ask myself is, is being materialistic in it of itself bad? I do not think so although it certainly has it's pros and cons which vary from instance to instance. I do not consider being materialistic to be a bad thing unless negative impacts are emergent. For example I think for some individuals their drive to further their acquisition of materials and goods has certainly evolved into a detriment only to them but those around them. Some people place an unhealthy emphasis on materialism driving them towards greedy behavior which results in negative consequences in their relationships and psychological health. This can also cause for individuals to lose site of more meaningful aspects and practices of thier lives and lead them to lack gratitude and appreciation. 

On a more macro level society has become too materialistic in that we deal a great deal of damage to our environment in the pursuit of generating more profit by stripping our land of natural resources in devestating ways. A lot of our focus on has shifted away from more enriching pursuits and practices such as self awareness and developing deeper connections with others and onto generating more money so we can buy things we do not need and that ultimately cause us to lose sight of more important things. I believe on a more collective level we have hindered our ability to evolve more spiritually and stripped ourselves of a greater potential to self actualize through our perceived importance of materialism. I think collectively we are severely lacking in personal and collective growth by placing too much energy and focus on many things that lack in substance such as materialism.

To answer the original question, "Should modern society be critiziced for being materialistic?", no I do not think it should. I do not think being materialistic in it of itself is bad. It has allowed for us to develop a ridiculous amount of convenience through the advancements of technology and human ingenuity. It also allows for us to enjoy the luxuries and hedonic pleasures materialism has to offer which increases our overall well being. I think a betting question is, "Shoudl modern society be criticized for being too materialistic?". I believe the answer to this is yes for all the aforementioned criticisms I have provided thus far. Being too materialistic leads to all sorts of issue both individually and collectively. This issues ranges from that of emotion well being and development to severe damage to the planet Earth. 

There are a whole lot of issues that stem from being overly materialistic that I have not covered or likely have even conceived of and most of them are likely interconnected to varying degrees making it a very complicated and surely not completely understood issue. As stated before I do not think society should be critized for being materialistic as it has afforded us countless positive impacts. We have also reached a point where if we were to suddenly do without materialism all together we would be thrown into a reality we are wholy unprepared for and could not manage. We have gotten to a point where materialism is one of the most prominent driving forces that propels us forward and allows us infinite posibilites that simply would not exist without the pursuit of materialism. It has become a necessity but as with everything should be carefully weighed and balanced such that our emphasis on materialism benefits us and does not serve as a detriment to our society.
