Is competition the path to success, or cooperation? The course of human history itself provides the answer in very clear terms: cooperation is the way to build paths forward, and only by piling onto the backs of others can we reach the highest highs. By observing the different eras of the human race, we can see this lesson taught time and time again. Finally, by getting a clear look at competition through the same method, we'll see that it doesn't have nearly the same kind of power, and the mistake of attributing power to it often has a very specific benefit to very specific individuals.

From the beginning we've hunted as packs, not solitary animals. The easiest prey was always alone, separated from watchful eyes that could protect them. By working together, we could hunt animals much larger than ourselves, and keep ourselves fed and secure for a very long time. Even the most basic task of our species - reproduction - can't be achieved alone. We're not big cats, and we're not jellyfish. We're apes, and we should treat that fact more humbly, our ancestors with more regard. It was inevitable, then, that the transition to agriculture would prove as successful as it eventually did. Our capacity for higher thought and the use of tools not only laid the groundwork for us to be able to thrive in a manner above that of other species, but also allowed us to sustain populations of staggering size within small areas.

The world we know today is quite different from the agricultural revolution, however, and we have another revolution to thank: an industrial one. Yet, what was the true driving force of the factory? It wasn't the innovation of set individuals, who could have simply been replaced, their innovation instead realized elsewhere and later, changing history but not destroying it. It was driven by legions of hands and feet working in concert to produce, without whom the innovators and competitors would have been useless. Think about the greatest innovations of the 20th century, and you would even find that the most impactful that reverberate the most today are often those that regard the organization of humans to work together most efficiently. In fact, we've often seen the opposite hold back productivity: think about the cubicle, office seperators, which only recently have businesses begun to realize hold the office back rather than improve it. The reason is obvious: employees should be working together to achieve their tasks, otherwise to bring them out from their homes makes no sense at all!

So then, what of competition? The effect of competition on these eras was in fact largely destructive, holding back the speed of progress rather than increasing it. Perhaps this is a necessary function, in the same way that a population can grow too large to be sustainable within its environment if it expands too fast. However, such a cap, a limiting factor, should not under any circumstances be mistaken for the driving force of success. In the beginning we shared; then we enter into a slow period of ignorance in which a few rule; and it's no coincidence that our speed of progress has risen so sharply in an era in which the masses have the tools to cooperate freely, even if this is not fully realized yet. The narrative that the opposite is true can be traced very clearly to those who pocket the difference while those legions of hands and feet fight and vie for daily bread. Even the benefits to the economy of something like war, perhaps the ultimate evidence of cooperation's supposed necessity, can truly be seen as the cooperation of a specific camp to a specific end, the fact that that end is the defeat of another camp being ultimately immaterial besides as a way to get those would otherwise only be interested in their own profits to briefly put them aside...and only briefly, the effect of which we can feel today only too keenly.

Thus we can see that cooperation is the real key, and that perhaps humanity has moved beyond the need for competition already. Of course, competition will remain, until we advance so far as to cast it off like a weight. One can only dream at the possibilities of how far we could advance, and how fast, if all of the nations of the world truly worked together, and we weren't so beholden to improving the circumstances of our rulers, still acting out the foulest weights of the times in which we began to plow.
