While competition can produce results and bring good results. Cooperation is much more successful in driving longer lasting and more significant accomplishments. In modern times and developed societies, one does not need to outright compete for resources anymore, and one can work with others to drive the ditribution of resources. The ability to share knowledge and help one another allows for much greater successes.

One of the biggest factors driving cooperations over competion is that cooperation allows for the ability to utilize multiple strengths in order to counteract weaknesses and gaps in knowledge. Sharing abilities allows for a fuller breadth of knowledge and skill pools to tap into. It is very unlikely for a single party in a competition based environment to have access to the same amount of the skills and abilities of multiple parties. A diverse set of insights and skills allow for stronger  accomplishments to be made as the synergy of these skills allows everyone to succeed.

Another factor is that competion only allows for a single result to be made and only produces result from whatever each party can individulaly produce. While people may argue that the best rises to the top, it is only the best of what is currently available. The winner of a t-ball tournament is still a t-ball team and cannot compete with a MLB team. Competition only highlights the best of the current pool, while collaboration and cooperation allows for the combination of bests to create what truly can be the best solution. The best ideas and actions can be put together to make an item that is much greater than. Greater things can be achieved when the best of the best ideas are partnered with each other rather than solely pitted against each other.

Competition does have its place in achiving victories. Things must be tested out against one another to see what works better and what does not. However, Cooperation does a better job at creating accomplishments and victories as it combines the skills and succeses of multiple parties and capitalizes on the reults of competition, in order to make up for weaknesses and thus drives better and more ignificant results.
