In our current social norm people are bombarded everyday with advertisements and celeberities selling something new, or even themselves.  I believe that this constant flow of images, brightly colored pacakages and celebery endorsements do have an effect on people and in some cases the effect can be very overwhelming.  Often times this type of marketing can also warp socail norms and drive people into buying things the may not actually need.

There is evidence that certain advertising does have a stong impace on its audience.  There was a point in time where Camel ciggaretts had a cartoon spokesperson Joe Camel.  This was an animated camel that was seen on bilboards, TV commercials, and magazine ads.  After seeing an uptick in underage smokers this character was retired.  It was shown that using a cartoon character to sell cigarettes caused many children to start smoking.  There was even legislation put through to force tobacco compaines to stop using certain images in advertising in an attempt to stop underage smoking.

Even when you go to your local mass market store like Target and Walmart you see celeberity endoresed products such as cookware or meals.  I myself have fallen victim to buying things because of a celebrity name attached to a product.  I have purchaed Emril endored products just because at the time he was popular, and I thought by using his products I would be able to emulate his cooking.  However I am still not a great cook and a cheap generic product will give the exact same results.  When we see a famous name and buy their product it gives us a sense that we are like them or can be more like them.  There are a plethora of items that have famous names attached.  There are gadgets, food, and clothing that all show off a famous name, and most people want to be like that famous person.

When we see movie stars or politians on TV we often don't even see the real them.  They are putting on a show to sell themselves to make us think more favorably of them.  How often have politicans told the public that they are going to do something but nothing is ever accomplished.  When we see movie stars doing interviews they always promote a glamourous lifestyle.  More often than not there are scandals and secrets that come out and shatter the illusion of the great famous life.  Recently there was a famous couple that got divorced and thier entire relationship is now in the media.  Everthing from them fighting to someone deficating on a bed.  At a glance we see this amazing life style but in reality their life may have money but often has more problems that our own.

So I would argue that yes, seeing certain types of advertisements or celebrity names will drive sales.  It will encourage people to shop or buy a certain way.  If theses types of tactics didnt work the government would not have taken action to stop Joe Camel, and I do believe that companies selling products know exactly how to entice the consumer.  People should be aware of the tactics that advertising companies are using so they dont fall for gimicks like this.  It is very similar to how a carnival will try to lure you in with bright lights and large prizes.  After spending your hard earned money you dont walk away with the large prize, instead you go home with a small usless junk toy. Same with seeing the celebrity life, it may appear glamourous but the grass is not always greener on the other side.
