Happiness is a personal concept that is defined differently among different people.  While some people might define their own happiness when they pursue their own dreams, others may find more fulfillment and happiness when they focus their goals on the improvement and inherent happiness of others.  Neither definition of happiness is inherently wrong and which direction a person chooses says a lot about their personality.

For those who choose to focus on their own dreams and goals, a sense of contentment and happiness is gained by achieving those goals.  The believe that feeling good about oneself is key to being able to project that happiness to others is a major factor in this type of thinking.  People in social situations have a tendancy to spread their feelings whether they intend to or not.  Someone who is happy will spread happiness, while someone who is depressed may tend to spread negativity.  So, to be able to spread happiness to others, some people need to find complete fulfillment within themself and the spread of happiness is a result. This type of happiness is achievable through the person's own drive and intention and does not rely on others to get to that point.

On the other hand, people who feel that their happiness depends on how they help others, the focus is external first with the personal feelings of happiness being a result only.  This is still a form of focusing on your own happiness, but the goal and methods to getting there are in a different direction.  This type of person will focus on the needs of others before their own needs to make sure that others are fulfilled.  Once they can do this, their own happiness comes with the knowledge that they may have succeeded in helping someone else do the same.  Without successfully helping someone else, this type of person may feel they are a failure, though, so their is some risk involved and the potential to spread negativity if too many external failures are encountered.  As a result, unlike people whose happiness comes from their own goals, people who focus on the happiness of others are dependent on the successes of others to find their own.  

Whether a person finds happiness by helping others or by helping themself, the goal is one in the same, achieve a feeling of happiness within themself and others.   With personal goals as a compass for happiness, the direction of happiness is internal to external.  For those focused on others primarily, the direction is from external to internal.  In both cases, though, there are two parts to a person's happiness, internal and external.  For true happiness to be possible, both need to be achieved.  This is more obvious for those who focus on the happiness of others, but it is a rare person who is able to only think about their own well being, physical or emotional, without acknowledging how they affect others.  In addition, by looking at happiness as a whole between self and others, it becomes apparent that this happiness cycle is dependent on the group as a whole.  

Happiness is achieved for all when it is spread between people.  The when and how of this is less important that the what.  Since people have different personalities, when and how they are able to spread happiness may vary.  However, the fact that happiness is spread remains the same for both types of people.  So, which is the better method?   That depends entirely on the personality of the reader.
