The idea of how happiness is achieved varies from person to person. Is happiness achieved through helping yourself or helping others; is it okay to think selfishly to be happy or should the focus be on being selfless? This is a common questions that is worth diving into.

Focusing on your own dreams and pursuits is the best road to the pursuit of happiness. The other option, trying to achieve happiness via others, might only end up in disappointment. A person doesn't know if helping someone will truly make someone else happy and so, therefore, it is an endless pursuit that may not end well. For example, you can volunteer for a charity that feeds the homeless, but seeing all that suffering might lead to further depression on your part because you're seeing that one person can only do so much and it might be a fruitless effort. 

Another reason that helping others might not lead to happiness is that, unfortunately, some people just don't deserve help. If you continuously go out of your way to help others just to find out that the person (or people) you're helping is an (are) awful person (people), then it will not only not make you happy, but it might have the complete opposite effect. People want to imagine anyone asking for help is a good and decent human being, but that is just optimism that might have a very disheartening result

Focusing on your own dreams and goals can be a good distraction that will lead to happiness for yourself but might lead to the happiness of others by happenstance. For example, focusing on doing well at work and/or being a good employee can help you achieve the financial success that can help you not worry about money or paying your bills. Coincidentally, by being a good employee who is reliable will make others around you happier because they know they can lean on you to do your work and not cause them more troubles at their own job. 

Happiness is something most everyone wants, but the way to achieve it varies wildly depending on who you're talking to. Focusing on your own dreams and goals is more likely to lead to happiness because you won't be disappointed by people not being worthy of help. It will also lead to happiness because you won't be constantly forced to see depressing situations that prevent you from being happy. You can also help others be happy by making yourself happy in various ways, like being the best employee and coworker you can be. There are a lot of ways to be happier, but putting yourself first, as controversial as that may be in modern times, can lead to a better chance at happiness than any other method. 
