   People often speak of the value of working together and the great achievements that it leads to. However, as our world becomes more and more connected, and governments begin to work together on a larger scale, one cant help but notice that the accomplishments seem to dwindle in scale when compared to what they accomplished in competition with one another. The Space Race seems like as good of an example as any other. When rushing neck to neck for space dominance, Russia and America made incredible break throughs in technology. Now that the two super powers work together in space, we are told that the technology that put man on the moon was destroyed and is simply to much of a pain to build back.
   Some might ask, but what about global supply chains, or the global response to COVID. Surely these great achievements couldnt have been spawned out of cometition. And that point I would absolutely agree with! What I would question is what makes you think those things were positive advancments for man kind? Global markets and supply chains are one of the major reason we have no local markets in the U.S. One of the reasons we have a lack of manufacturing jobs or American made items on the shelves of our own country. And the gloabal response to COVID could be argued to still be showing it's ugly side effects. Markets are teetering around the world, food shortages are pending, and the mental growth of our youth has been stunted. With the closing of small businesses, the gab between the classes has become a casim, with the rich getting richer, all while the everyday person is left to deal with the aftermath of inflation, soaring food and gas prices, and a terrible housing market for renters. 
   But, had the nations been competing to see whose economy would pull through the strongest, things would be very much different than what we see today. America could have left their citizens to decide who felt the need to stay home and who did not. We could have decided to close our businesses or leave them open. Rather to attend church for a sense of community or stay home. Rather our children, the least likely to catch the virus, would go to school, or be locked in their homes for months. We would have maintained our God given freedoms. Most business owners would have decided to risk leaving businesses open, rather than lose a life's time of work. Landlords wouldnt have been forced into forclosures over the rent morandums. America would be strong. As would most other nations of the world, out of competition with her!
   As it turns out, when the world works together in cooperation, nothing good can come of it. God said as much shortly after the flood, at the tower of Babel. So he divided us by launguage and we all went our different directions, leaving the launguage groups that you see today. While cooperation on a small level can be helpful, and we should be diplomatic with each other, a strong cometition between the nations of the world is a wonderful thing. We should all have a sense of pride in our nations. And pride in our cultures. It is what gives life some flavor and makes life on this Earth interesting. No, we don't want war, but we dont want complete cooperation either. We want healthy competition. We want to see the American, the Russian, the Chinese spirit prosper and bring the citizens to life with patriotism and pride for their countries. So, let's beat these other countries! Let's beat them at lowering our unemployment rates, defeat them reducing homelessness, obliterate them at job creation! Let's reopen these old factories with new American businesses! Let's compete on the world stage again! 
