     The writing task I am asked to write about is on the topic of Happiness. More specifically "is happiness found in focusing on personal goals or focusing on schieving the happiness of others. I think this is a topic almost all people can relate to considering life is spent after this pursuit one way or another.
     My position in this paper is that I beleive a person is happiest when they make it their person goal to seek the happiness of others. I believe this for a couple different reasons which I will now elaborate on, even though I know I will be only touching on the iceberg of this topic. My main reason for having this belief is that I am a Christian and follow the words of Jesus. According to Jesus teaching we are happier when we give to others, or to put it in a different way when we seek the happiness of others. All  other reasons for  beleiving this stems from this concept. My second reason for thinking this way is through personal experience. I know throughout my life when I sought the happiness of others it has given me a sense of satisfaction far beyond that of just thinking about myself. Third is through observation. The people I have observed who are other focused verus self focused are much more satisfied with their life.
     In conclusion western society has built its empire on self seeking behavour. I am not critical of this fact I am just saddened by it. As stated at the begining of the essay my position was I believe we are happiest when we make our personal goal the happiness of others. I believe this should be one foundational principal in our society and should be taught and practised more often. We often wonder why there is such a drug epidemic in the world, its my opinion one reason is we are so self-focused. I beleive it erodes trust in others and debases ourselves so that we have no character to stand on as individuals. Obviously life cannot exist if we dont take care of ourlseves and plan for ourselves a future, but there must be balance.
