    Happiness. It is ubiquitous to being human. We all seek happiness. We all crave it. Indeed, it is such an important part of being human that it is in the Bill of Rights. But is happiness an illusion? Would humanity be more content if they pursue the goal of personal happiness, or the happiness of humanity overall? In this essay I will show why the pursuit of personal happiness is the best way to pursue happiness. That trying to make the status quo happy will often lead to the demise of your own well-being.
    John is a 24 year old apprentice chef. In his role as a chef he has to work both independently and as part of a team. He is always trying to do his best and go the extra mile for his team. However he also has a loving girlfriend who he loves to spend time with on his days off. He often is asked to cover the shifts of people who are sick, or have other engagements. This annoys him. But he feels obligated to helping his team. He is a hospitality matyr. 
    John is making others happy, while he is causing more feelings of anger and frustration in his own life. His co-workers tell him to just say "no". But he feels he will be penalized for saying so. He is reminded that others who say "no" are not penalized, and that he should do what's best for him.
John decides to do so the next time he is asked, and he faces no negative consequences. 
    Did John do the right thing? Yes he did.  This example is a microcosm of  how to achieve happiness in our lives. Once John did something for himself, he immediately reaped the rewards. By focusing on what he wanted - time with his girlfriend, he was a lot happier.  By focusing on your personal goals you will be doing something that is important to you, and will make your life better. It could be saying no to going to a party so you can study, or play guitar. We all have had times when we have sacrificed something to make others happy and you end up resentful, and feeling negative.  What about if doing something for others, for the status quo makes you happy? It still is an act that is personally significant to you, and by proxy it still is about you.
    In conclusion, the pursuit of personal happiness is not an illusion. It is a real, tangible thing that without which you lessen your satisfaction in life. While making others happy is an important thing in a society, the fulfillment of personal happiness should be front and center of all of our lives. The Bill of Rights was right with including happiness.
    


