Is happiness about your personal goals or the happiness of others? Well, I think happiness should be about you and your goals in life, You can't live a happy life if your always wanting others to be happy. I think if you focus more on yourself than on others you can be happy but you can also be happy when others are happy. If your'e always wanting to be happy based on others happiness you won't be as happy as you thought because not everyone is happy everyday, some people are sad and that can also make you sad and want to try to make them happy so you can be happy too. I feel like people will more likely be happy if they focus on their personal goals because once you complete a goal you feel relief and proudness of your self, you wont get that feeling on the happiness of others. Someone else can be happy because they got a raise and you can be happy for them but also be happy for yourself when you achieve your goals and move where you want to be in your life. If you are not focusing on your own goals then you won't be going anywhere in life like you want to. Your happiness is your inner feeling that reflects on your state of mind and if your state of mind is always trying to make others happy you wont be truly happy until you work on yourself and doing what you love. Reaching you goals and being happy about your life you will find happiness along the way as well as being happy with friendships and their achievements. True happiness will come from inside and if you have a positive mindset then you will have higher chances of being happy for the long run and also helping others along the way to see things in a positive light. Happiness is based solely on you and your dreams, you dont want to waste your time by not being truly happy within yourself. You are happy because others are happy and reaching goals when you could be doing the same thing, advancing in your career or upgrading to a new car, buying a house for the firstime are all great ways of achieving goals and having inner happiness that you can share with others as well. Ive learned that if you are always focusing on the negative or on others happiness you arent going to be happy at all, so think of all the positive and you will start to be more happy, Go after your goals and focus on yourself.  Positivity and reaching goals are great ways to find inner happiness that will last longer than happiness at the moment for others. Focusing on your own happiness does not mean you cant still be happy for others because you can be all while being happy with yourself and your own acomplishments. That is why I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their own goals rather than focusing on the happiness of others.
