It is better to give than to receive, people say.  Well, I agree and I believe that making other people happy will make you happy too.  It is not our selfish amibitions that make us happy.  We are only slightly happy for a while and they we want more.  We want to be more successful.  We want more money.  We want more prestige and status.  We want the best.  If we only focus on our goals for happiness we will be disappointed.  That is because our goals are never enough.  
We are never satisified until we are the best or have the best or we are perfect.  And that will never happen.  We are not perfect people and we will never be perfect.  Even if you are successful, for example, you get a gold medal at the olympics, you have to continue to be great.  The next olympics you have to earn another gold.  You cannot let someone else beat you or beat your time or score.  Happiness is fleeting when it is about you. 
However, when it is about other people, you are able to see their happiness from something that you did or said and it makes you happy.  Although you want to do it more and more to make more people happy and thus yourself happy, it is different than happiness from our goals.  We can reflect back to the happiness of others with a sense of joy and fulfillment.  When we look back at our goals, we just remember where we failed or what else we could do better.  We look at our failures and faults.  When we look to the happiness of other people, we see immediately their happiness and that never goes away.  Instead of more, more, more for our goals, we have a happiness cycle.  This is where we make someone happy and then we are happy and so it makes us want to make more people happy.  The happiness continues.  This is different than our goals, because I don't believe the happiness continues. I think the happiness in that case is fleeting and then dies.
Therefore, I believe the happiness of others makes us happy.  It is reflecting on goodness and selflessness instead of wanted more and more and selfishness.  Our happiness is not dependant on how well we do, but by just doing.  By just going some good for someone else.  It  doesn't have to be difficult or time consuming.  It can be a simple smile or gift.  This is much more appealing and easy to do than difficult goals and it not only makes the other person happy, it makes you happy too.  And that is what we all strive for.  To be happy.
Also, I believe people are more happy when are working in a community to do good instead of just by themselves.  That is because there is a sense of something greater.  Working for something greater than themselves make people more happy and think about others.  It makes the community happier too and it is more people happy than just yourself happy.  It causes a better outcome and therefore more people are happy and they want to continue that.  I find that in my life, I am more happy when thinking about others.  I like to think about my family and friends instead of myself.  When I had kids I thought or them more and I was much happier.  When I see my kids happy, it makes me happy.  And that is so much more than my happiness from my goals.
