Visual images can be used as a tool for people who are trying to convey a message. Images can be used as a tool to catch people's attention as well as stir their emotions. With the right image, an advertisement or a campaign can make someone stand out more compared to their competitors. Images allow for digressing complex information, to cross language barriers, as well as make information that can seem dull, eye catching. Visual images have become a dominant means of communication in the twentieth century and has an effect on people when it comes to obtaining information.

Images in messages allows for the reduction of information processing. When consumers look at an ad or a product in store, an eye catching visual would allow for a stronger mental image in the mind rather than words. Having a strong visual allows for the consumers to remember the product or object and therefore they can associate the brand or idea quickly. 

Images can also allow for consumers to trancend laguage barriers. If someone is traveling to a foreign country and is trying to purchase a product in store, having an image on the product showing the features allows for someone to quickly understand what the product is used for even though they do not know the language. Since a foreigner  would not know the language of the place they are visiting, companies would need to have eye-catching packages to grab the their attention rather than using words. 

However, image visualization also has a negative effect on people. The media has often been critized for editing photos to make someone want to make the information their standard for what someone should look like or items they should own. Technology and editing makes images appear more perfect than one should be and in turn consumers would want to achieve such looks or products even though it is not standard or inmost cases exxagerated and hard to obtain. 

Over the years visual images have become an increasing important feature to include in advertisements and products making it have an effect on people in both negative and positive ways. Images are a powerful tool for companies to use to persuade consumers to use their products. It can allow for quick information digression as well as surpass language barriers. Images however can also have negative effects on how people conceive themselves in the long run if the image is manipulated in any way. Overall, a picture is worth a thousand words so companies should use it to their advantage.
