In the 1980s, Madonna sang about the joys of being a material girl. As a kid, I didn't really understand what she was talking about, but as an adult I sing along to the song with some sense of irony. I recognize that I am a material girl, but it is not who I aspire to be because unfettered consumerism leads to serious problems with pollution, waste management, and workers' rights. It is my belief that modern society should be criticized for promoting materialism. Materialism refers to the drive to aquire more consumer goods. It results in the purchase of items that are redundant, not needed and not even wanted at times. This consequently leads us to discard, not use or simply store items that are no longer wanted or needed. This is hugely problematic because of the environmental impact of producing and disposing of all of these objects. Untold millions of tons of items that are destined to be future trash are manufactured each year.

Acquisition of more items is something that is wired into our cultural conscience. It has become an American cultural value that pervades media and private life.  Most people imagine themselves as moving toward an increasingly better standard of living, which usually means buying more expensive, more prestigious or larger items (from jewelry to houses). The idea of consumerism is taught early to children. I remember being a child and being encouraged by advertisements to "collect all" of the Happy Meal toys, books in a series, and toys in a set. I took this seriously and careful lined my collections of useless objects up on my windowsill and dresser. At one point I had so many plastic Disney figurines that it took up the whole dresser top. Even with this many in my possession, I was always eager to go to the Disney store to see if they had any new figurines that I did not have in the collection. Today, this collection sits in a plastic bucket in my closet because I don't want to discard it but it has no value or use.

So how does the cultural mandate to acquire impact us on a global scale? As mentioned previously, consumer culture promotes waste of raw materials and increases garbage that is discarded. There is another side to it that is less obvious. Consumerism also encourages us to be good members of the working class. If we believed that our house, clothing and other personal items were good enough and durable, we would not need as much money each month. But since we tend to be aspirational, and are always looking to the next best thing we frequently spend money on "upgrades" or "new" items that are not technically necessary. 

Fast fashion is an interesting example of the potentially pernicious effects of materialism. This refers to garments that are low quality, low cost and produced rapidly, often in less developed nations by a workforce that is not paid a living wage. The effects of products manufactured this way are detrimental not only to the consumer and the environment, but also to the workers themeselves who typically have poor working conditions and live in poverty. Materialism as it is practiced today allows and promotes many unethical manufacturing practices. However, because the factories are typically in other countries, Americans and those in more developed countries frequently turn a blind eye to the human rights violations that happen in the factories that produce our new shiny objects.

I was recently reading a book called "The Year of Less" where the author talks about a year long experiment to not buy anything that was not groceries/gas/consumables for one year. She spoke about how there was a time early in the 1900s when manufacturers worried that their ability to produce products would vastly outstrip the popluation's need to purchase them. Consumerist culture was partially brought to live by a very deliberate decision to find a way to get consumers to purchase more, even when their current items were sufficient. The author did not suggest this, but I also suspect this lead to a decline in the quality of goods manufactured in order to necessitate more frequent purchases. Most of us are familiar with the old chestnut that "they don't make things like they used to," and this is probably true for many items. 

Some may say that consumerism is good because it keeps the economy going. Although it is true that the economy would collapse if we all stopped buying consumer goods, we are unlikely to ever encounter this situation. First, old goods will wear out and require replacement. Even the highest quality goods eventually need replacing. Second, as the population increases we will have increased need for durable goods. Third, we are likely to invent new products that are widely desired and have entirely un-saturated markets. It is my belief that if we moved away from being a society focused on acquisition of disposable goods that we would find other ways to consume services that would keep the economy afloat. I know I'd rather enjoy a beautiful vacation than the most recent Gucci bag. 

In conclusion, materialism has detrimental effects on individuals and on the environment. We all would benefit from taking a step back from the idea that we must always be striving to buy the newest, shinest thing. In the end, acquisition of objects does not make us happy. Research consistently shows that having meaningful connections and work is a better predictor of happiness. We would all do well to focus more on these things.
