Could the Egyptians have built the pyramid of Giza without cooperation? The massive project was undertaken by legions of Egyptian slaves and workers who toiled together, in unison, to erect the feat of achitectural wonder. Clearly, competition among foremen and workers would have halted and likely broken down the process of moving and constructing the parts and the structure as a whole: everyone would have their own idea as to how to proceed and no one would be in synchronicity.

The same tenet holds true today for modern-day endeavors, just as it did thousands of years ago. Competitive entities are only as effective as the collaborative teams of workers supporting them. When cultures turned to division of labor to increase productivity hundreds of years ago, essentially social collaboration was born. A single household depended upon cobblers, smiths, farmers, carpenters, etc. for help in building and maintaining their homestead. Individuals could no longer do everything on their own. This concept of collaboration-- or, dividing expertise and sharing production-- is present in most aspects of today's culture.

As I mentioned, a business is only as strong as it's workforce. If there are not enough people working behind the scenes in gowing, processing, production, shipping, customer service, finance, marketing, buyers etc., then one link in the chain will cause the process to fail. No one person can create, run and execute a large-scale project on their own.

There will always be those who argue that competition increases the stakes and causes innovation to occur out of necessity. This is true for each part of the process in a large-scale endeavor (e.g., marketing or shipping). Overall, however, we require cooperation in order to complete the process from A to Z.

Looking back on the most successful mass-scale projects in history-- whether it be running a government, neighborhood, supermarket or building the Panama Canal-- it is always cooperation that trumps competition in order to create a finished product. 
