     People find happiness in a variety of ways depending on personality, experiences, resources, time and direction in life.  How happy one becomes will be a matter of how all these factors come into play in their lives.  For most, happiness will come from fulfilling an urge to make others happy because it will consist of true love which will outweigh all other forms of happiness. As you go through life, circumstances and even our bodies change and we cannot always keep that happiness just from our own personal goals because our bodies cannot keep up with our own dreams of happiness. Focussing on others happiness will be something we can always strive for as we have so many different people and personalities to focus upon that it makes it simpler to achieve.  
     To achieve happiness one will strive to feel good inside and outside.  It is hard for most people to get both. However, when they do they will feel so good that they will want to continue doing whatever that is that makes them feel that way.  To feel good on the inside and outside takes the human drive to think about others.  Striving to achieve perfection and happiness by strictly focussing on yourself will leave you down in the dumps after a while because as you age you cannot maintain the internal and external beauty that you once had.  By focussing on helping someone else be happy you can achieve happiness inside at any stage in life.  There are always opportunities to help someone which can lead to a great sense of happiness in life.
     You can help make others happy in a variety of ways.  There are always many people who want happiness and helping them achieve that can be just a matter of seeking out others who desire something that you can give them.  This gives many options for making people happy especially if you have the desire to make others happy.  In turn this can make you really happy that you are able to help. As well, the friendship you get in return is so much more in happiness that you can get just working on your own goals which often can't be accomplished without the help of others.  You can gain happiness seeing a friend do well in a sport, help with emotional support, help with moving, assist with learning a sport, or even tutoring.  The possibilities for helping and feeling great about it are endless because people are always in need of a good friend.  Making a friend as well will give a lifetime of memories and happiness.
     In conclusion, by helping others be happy you can feel good and keep wanting to work to feel that way.  Pursuing your own goals won't bring the same level of satisfaction as having the opportunity and option to change so many other peoples' lives and bring happiness to them.  You can have many ways to help others which will give you a lifetime of happiness. People will be much happier in the long run having good friends than just aiming for only their personal goals because they can work together with friends to achieve much greater happiness in life together with others.    
     

