Images and impressions have a very big effect on people.  Sometimes images and impressions are very convincing and can cause people to believe things that are not very true.  Commercials that we see on television is very beleivable sometimes even though what they say or show on television may not be quite true.  Commercials stretch the truth a lot of the time, and maybe they are not directly lying, but they often are exaggerating a lot to convince people to buy things.  Commercials have a very big effect on people.

One way commercials have a big effect on people is that they exaggerate a lot.  A product may be good, but the commercial will say it is great.  Commercials will point out all the good things about a product to get us to buy, but they don't say the bad things.  People are led to believe all the good things, so they buy the product.  Persuading people to buy something that maybe they wouldn't without seeing the commercial means commercials have too much an effect on people.  Commercials cause people to do things because they believe what the commercial tells them.

Another way commercials have a big effect on people is they show very nice images of people being happy and enjoying the product.  They make us want to experience the same things as the people in the commercial.  People tend to want to be like others they admire or look up to like famous movie stars or athletes or other famous people.  So people buy the product thinking they will have the same experience as their favorite movie star or athlete.  The truth is these people are paid to like the product or experience, but regular people who watch the commercials may really believe that these people are being honest and genuine.  The positive images people see on their television have a really big effect on them and cause them to believe the commercial.

So it is very true that images and impressions have a very big effect on people, sometimes too much.  This effect can be seen everyday with commercials and how they effect us.  Commercials are very effective in convincing us to buy things because of the really positive images they show.  These positive images will make us do or buy things that maybe we won't if we did not see the commercial.  It is a very big effect, and sometimes too much effect.  Maybe it is bad or can be bad when they have too effect.  Or maybe sometimes good too but still very big effect and sometimes too much effect.
