Focusing on your own personal goals is essential to living a fulfilling life. It is impossible to be happy by only focusing on the happiness of others. Similar to how you should put on your own oxygen mask before helping others in an emergency, you should prioritize your own happiness over that of others. Only those who work on their own personal goals can achieve real happiness.

Even though parents often sacrifice for their children, they are still pursuing their own happiness in the process. If the parents only focused on their children's happiness, the parents would be unlikely to be happy themselves. The parent is typically happy to have a child who is well-behaved and an asset to society. This would involve disciplining the child when necessary and ensuring the child develops healthy habits. If a parent spoils their child, their child will become increasingly demanding and difficult to deal with. Though the child will always be happy, the parent will be unhappy as they will have to sacrifice everything to pamper their child. However, if the parent chooses to punish and reward the child fairly, the parent will be much happier with how their child develops. A spoiled child may also develop health issues, since they will refuse to exercise or eat healthy foods or take their medications. This will cause the parent to worry and stress since their child will be ill. Therefore, for a parent to be happy, they must prioritize their own happiness first.

Historically, many groups were oppressed to achieve happiness for other groups. Slaves were often used by slaveowners to achieve wealth and prosperity at the expense of the slaves. Rather than compensating properly for work and treating the workers fairly, they maximized profits by dehumanizing and abusing the slaves. Slaves had to be abused to prevent revolutions and escapes, which shows the slaves were not happy providing free labor to their owners. They did not become happy by improving the lives of their owners for no personal gain. A slave solely focuses on providing happiness to others. Slavery is outlawed in many countries today because being a slave is incompatible with personal happiness. No one would choose to be a slave, because there is no way to be happy and fulfilled when your sole purpose is to work for someone else.

In patriarchal societies, women are persuaded to focus on ensuring their kids and husband are happy. Women's rights movements show that these women are not happy when they are not allowed to pursue their personal goals. While some woman are happy staying at home and being a caretaker, other women are more career-oriented or want to focus on other areas of life. Rather than spending all their time doing household chores, some women want to have fulfilling careers and pursue their own goals. Some women prefer not to be married or have children and live alone. Many women today believe that household chores should be split evenly between the couple, especially if both of them have to work. While doing all the chores would make the rest of your household members happy, it leaves very little time to the pursuit of your own personal goals. Unless your personal goal is simply to clean and cook, you will be unhappy spending all your time doing housework. 

It is important to always prioritize your own goals over those of others to be happy. Sometimes your personal goals may align with those of others and you will both be happy, sometimes they will not. However, if you solely focus on the happiness of others, you will become unhappy as their goals may not align with yours. Always set out to achieve your own goals first to bring joy to your own life before trying to spread happiness to others.
