     Materialism is a fabric of modern society, especially in the United States. It is seen in the advertisements for cars, jewelry and other expensive items we see in everyday life. The question we have all asked ourselves is: Is Materialism good or bad? I feel I have a compelling argument to show that the world shouldn't be criticized for being too materialistic, and even that materialism isn't neccessarily a bad thing. 
      From the time we are small children seeing ads for the hottest toy or electronic device, we are conditioned to want stuff and things. It would be very difficult to ignore or fight these urges so I feel we should embrace them. However, we should embrace them with one caviat: don't let materialism run your life. I don't argue that materialism can be dangerous but I think those are extreme cases. As with anything, it should be used in moderation and not the singular focus of one's life. Modern society shouldn't be critized for being materialistic, because materialism helps drive us to be ambitious and hard working to acheive these things. 
     If we didn't have at least some materialistic tendencies, we would be a complacent society. I consider my wife to be more materialistic, but she does it to provide nice things for her family not just her. We have some nice things but we work hard for those things. I think the lack of wanting new and shiny things lead us to be complacent which can lead to laziness. One could say that laziness is much more dangerous to a society than materialism is. 
     Some could argue that materialism make us forget about the simple things in life, however, aquiring material things can help us enjoy the little things in life. I would argue without material things what exactly would our life be. Some might consider it to be quite boring. So the argument that the world is too materialistic is flawed because the world can't exist without some form of materialism. 
    Materialism has been deem a negative term over the last few decades and I feel this has been done unfairly. It is time we examine what materialism is in our lives and how we can use it as a postive to make changes in our lives. Just like with other aspects of our society such as curse words, the only way the negative definition of materialism changes is if more people take a long hard look at what the effects of materialism are. 
