To answer the question of "Do images and impressions have too much of an effect on people?", I would say yes... without a doubt. High profile / public individuals are typically seen wearing nice, expensive clothing. The majority of the time they seem to be well put together. They have a great wordrobe, a perfect smile, luxury vehicles, a beautiful spouse and no hint of financial insecurity at all. I highly believe that social media and the images mentioned above have an adverse effect on " common folks" mental health. 

I find myself scrolling social media constantly and comparing myself to people I don't even know. There is a tinge of jealousy when I scroll Instagram or Facebook and see old classmates, friends of friends, family members, etc. that are doing well and thriving, but the majority of the time I am happy for them. I have an emotional connection of sorts and find genuine happiness for them. On the other side, I find myself scrolling TikTok, and being extremely jealous of an "influencer". Someone I do not know, nor will ever meet. I see the new clothes that boutiques send them to try on, the new car their husband surprised them with, the lavish vacations and even the extensive amount of money they dish out on holiday items and decor. I think to myself "I wish I could afford a new Christmas tree" or "Man, it must be nice to go shopping" because I don't have the funds in my budget to do so. I assume thier lives are perfect. I assume they live in this fantasy world that is unobtainable for people like me. I do know that is not true. I do know they have struggles, just like everyone else, but it's easy to misinterpret that sometimes. It's easy to forget they have normal jobs, kids, hobbies, etc. It's easy to forget what you don't want to comprehend. It's easy to let your mind play tricks on you.

In conclusion, jealousy can wreck havoc on a person and their mental health. I've always heard that "Comparison is the theif of joy" and if you think about it, there is no truer statement. It will rob you of blessings that were intended for you. It will make you resent what you have. It puts a bitterness in your heart that is hard to overcome. So, to answer the intial question, yes, the facade that is presented so often with celebrities and high profile figures can have a significant impact/effect on people.
