I think that images and impressions have too much of an effect on people, especially young kids but also the general public.   Kids are having so many questions about the world and the world around them so I feel that when there is an ad that is trying to get them to buy something, they are more prone to convince their parents to get it for them.  There are so many healthy benefits where experts "claim" that are good for their body.  With so many of these messages being towards younger kids, they don't know as much as the older generation about what is real or not.  Kids are impressionable about everything and especially I see on tik tok that there are many ads sponsored on there. I am an adult and I get sucked into some of the ads that I encounter because whatever they are sponsoring seems to be so real when in reality most of them don't work and I am out of money then. 

Also, I think nowadays with the technology, there are so many younger kids searching for things they like and whenever they are searching for something, the thing they were searching for magically appears in reality, they are being traced by their search history and in turn making them want the item more.  

In conclusion, I believe that images and impressions have too much of an effect on the younger generation because of the claims, and the ads on tik tok, and their search history.  Kids just have to be careful about what they are searching for and try to keep it to private so it won't tempt the kids.  

On the other hand, I believe that the older generation don't fall so easy into the traps of buying things that they see.  They are a little bit more aware about how technology has all of the search history that tries to lure the younger generation.  For me, I need to see the product actually work or actually have to try it for myself before I spend a penny on the product.  

There are so many useless things that are out there where there are so many claims that they work when in reality, they just want your money for themselves so they make up the results.  

I am not saying this for a lot of the things but a majority of them are like this.  I also think that there are some ads that are targeted to teenagers and older adults, and are mostly skin care and saying if you have this, then you feel younger.  Which is sometimes true since older people want to feel young again, I know I do.  

Teenagers, I think are also sometimes sucked into the ads since the ads are targeted to them.  Also, when they have a favorite singer, athlete, etc. that they see on the ad, they feel more inclined to get the item since their favorite person is promoting it although they don't really realize that they get paid for the money they get.  It sucks them in but not just them, all of us.  I have to admit that I have gotten things because they seem good but when I try it, it's nothing like they claimed so you are pretty much scammed out of your money. 

There are many ads and other famous people who are sponsoring items and many kids, teenagers, and adults blindly fall into these traps.  I think it's sad this happens but it's everywhere and if I were trying to sell something, I probably would do something like this as well. 

All the generations are tempted to buy things but I think that younger kids are more prone to getting something they see because they believe what is presented without seeing the products.  They are more prone to ask their parents for something and convince their parents to purchase it for them. 
