We live in a world ruled by surface appearances. Everything around us is polished, bright, and carefully presented. When we go shopping, we see advertisements for products that claim they will solve all the problems in our lives. When we turn on the TV or read the news on our phones, we hear politicians saying words that have been carefully chosen to appeal to us. All of these things conspire to make us focus on the surface appearance of the world, rather than its deeper problems and realities. In today's world, images and impressions have far too much power over people's opinions, and they often keep people from seeing the reality of the world.

The advertising industry is one of the largest sources of false images. It exists solely to convince people to buy things, not to tell the truth. Advertising follows us everywhere we go: on billboards on the highway, on videos on our phones, in the packaging of the products we buy at the store. We consume advertisements without realizing it, and it is very easy to drop our guard and believe that the shiny image of an ad represents reality. When we are tired, or busy, or overwhelmed, we simply don't have time to critically process every claim that we hear or see. It is easier to just accept it and move on with our lives. And so our minds fill with the false claims of ads, and we begin to focus on the surface rather than on reality.

Politics is another huge source of false images. Politicians want to gain and keep power, and often the easiest way to be elected is to say what the voters want to hear and put on the personality they want to see. Rather than being honest with voters about the challenges in our country, politicians speak in neatly-packaged sound bites that present the problems of the nation as simple and easy to solve--assuming you vote for them. Unfortunately, political rhetoric can easily pull voters into its spell. They too start to see complex problems as simple, and to believe that voting for the right party will solve all the problems in their lives. Instead of having informed debates about the complexities of the problems that face us, citizens begin to live in the world of appearances and to talk to each other in sound bites.

Some people may argue that images and impressions are the real world--that there is no deeper reality. How can images have too much of an effect on us when the world is made of nothing but images? However, this argument ignores the difference between an immediate, brief impression and a deeper analysis. The words of an advertisement are part of the truth of a product, but they are not all of the truth. The words of a politician describe an aspect of the problems facing the nation, but they do not give the whole picture. When we look only at images or impressions, we are like the blind men describing the elephant. We may see the trunk or tail, but we do not see the whole picture. And even our image of the trunk or tail is shallow and distorted.

How can we escape from the trap of living in a world of images and impressions, and learn to see the deeper but more complex realities around us? The answer begins with education. We must teach ourselves, and our children, to think critically. We must cultivate habits of slow and careful thought, rather than hasty judgement. We must train ourselves to ask questions, to look deeper, to turn our eyes away from the dazzle of surface images and toward the more blurry and ambiguous outlines of reality. Only then will we see the true details of the complex problems that face us. Only then will we be able to solve our problems, by beginning from a foundation of reality rather than false images.
