There is a debate about whether people are happier when they focus on their personal goals or when they focus on the happiness of others.  While you can be happy when you reach a personal goal, lasting happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others.

Studies have shown that people who engage in mindfulness practices are happier and healthier long term.  They have found that gratitude is an important part of mindfulness.  Gratitude comes from being grateful for things in your life.  When others around you are happy, it lightens your spirit and allows you to find those things in life that you are grateful for. Emotions can also be contagious, so if you aren't focused on other people's happiness, your happiness can be drained away if those around you are not happy.

This is not to discount the happiness that comes from reaching your personal goals.  There is a sense of accomplishment that makes you feel good when you reach a goal you have set for yourself.  However, human nature has us all striving for something more.  If your happiness is based on your personal goals, this happiness will be temporary. Once that goal has been reached, you will be looking for something more.  Also, depending on how far you are from reaching your goal, the process of striving for a personal goal can be defeating.  It makes you feel you are lacking if you have not attained that goal.

Focusing on the happiness of others is a much more lasting form of personal happiness.  You not only get the boost from those around you being happy, but you are fulfilling a bigger purpose of helping others.  There is a feeling that you get from helping someone else reach a place of happiness that feels better than the feeling from reaching your own goal.

If people were less selfish as a whole, the country would be in a better place than it is now.  If you are concerned about the happiness of others, you wouldn't pick up a gun against them. Much of the strife of the country right now is because people are only thinking about what they want. Society is based on a collection of people, not the individual. Basing your happiness on focusing on your own goals is a selfish way to live.
