There's the old proverb: if you want to go fast, go alone, but if you want to go far, go together. Yet Western cultures are not filled with communal victories in the stories we tell. Our history books are full of the names of great men, with short shrift given to the support behind them. So why do we emphasize individual greatness at the expense of historic accuracy? Is this the better way to view history-- as great men against a background of support staff best left in the background? 

There's another old proverb: no man is an island. We can develop a variety of skills, but one human lifetime only grants the space to be master of a handful at most. The vast majority of us are blessed to master one skill over a lifetime. But grand accomplisments, the kind that tend to make history books, require master level work of multiple skills. The Pyramids of Giza required not just an architect, but highly skilled masons, construction crews, and artisans in multiple media. They are an Egyptian accomplishment because they required so much Egyptian skill and effort to create. 

Even when a single master is credited, they are often the head of a team and not the sole talent involved. Beyonce is a masterful vocal artist, dancer, and overall entertainer, but even if she were to perform alone, her work would show the guidance of coaches, composers, producers, choreographers, and the myriad influences she brings to her work, which can come from any art form. 

In every sphere of human achievement, cooperation builds brilliance. Even competition often takes place between teams, and a better organized team can best an individual or a poorly organized team. Tesla was not a worse scientist than Edison; he was a less sociable and less well-connected one. We advise those beginning their careers that "it's not what you know, it's who you know." Schiaparelli's fashion ideas may have been fanciful, but it was the business team behind Chanel that made her name a lasting influence in fashion. Competition helps us hone our skills-- including our team building and team leading skills, which can often beat technical proficiency. 

We are not a species designed to live or work alone. Babies are born helpless to people who are weakened by hours of labor. We succeeded as a species by banding together and assigning some of us to hunt and others to gather. Some groups got better places to hunt or gather by beating other groups, but no lone gatherer has managed to exclude a group from that lone person's tuber-gathering ground. And whether we're gathering tubers or building skyscrapers, we need each other. 
