Being materialistic is not a bad thing what so ever, in society today new tech we need to go about our everyday lives are important. Having the lastest trendy clothes or tech in modern life gives the young and mid age a peace of mind that they are keeping up with the world. The world is changing to be more upright and outstanding. People should work hard to gain access to finer things or whatever is trending. Keeping up with the world as it's changing so fast gives the people a mental foundation so they can strive to greater and better thing. Criticizing someone because they always have the lastest tech or gear says a lot about some personality. We need new thing to come out every year so people can start working hard and treating themsleve better.

Having the lastes tech gives us so many benefits that we need in todays society. Apple watches can record your heart beat and look over your health. Not having to go to the doctor every week and save so many people so much people and time. New 4K-8K Tvs also have a high factor on why people shouldn't be criticized. We all want to watch our favorite celeb in the most clear and smooth display. Always needing to have the best things in life should be a hate crime, we as human beings should inbrace change and adapt to all the things modern society has to offer.

The world today as we know is changing and becoming more materialistic. New tech, car, clothes and even daily essentials. We need things to change so our lives can change with it and become of new. People should't criticized other people because they are materialistic, society is changing to to where we need to have the lastest things. Having the lastest trendy clothes and tech makes life so much easier. It actuly feels like winning a thophy after working so hard to gain what you workling towards. I'm starting to be more materialistic because what companies and people who are making these wonderful has to offer. New things are always and continue to release year after year, ni need to criticize it and hate it. WE all want new things deep down.
