Images are all around us. We consume them without even realizing it. After all we all hold tiny computers in our hands all day. Images effect humans greatly. These images can have disasterous effects on us as well. Images and impressions do have too much of an effect on people. 

Humans are visual learners and we use sight to determine what is safe and what is important to us. We are attracted to people and to things based on how they look. Much of what we see currently is not real and that can be very damaging to the mind. We are in a weird place in society right now because many of us, myself included, use our phone to create content. Other people do not and they are only consumers of content. I  have been able to use apps on my phone to edit my pictures and videos so they are appealing. I feel that the problems start when people do not realize that images are being altered. Not everyone has the same skill levels or access to this software. Some people think everything that they see is real. 

For example, there is a reddit page called r/instagramreality. This page changed my views of everything when I found it a few years ago. It shows anonymous pictures of influencers and points out all the ways they have edited their pictures. They change the lighting and other minor things sometimes but other times they change their whole face or skin color or shape of their eyes. They compare pictures that they post versus a picture posted by a media outlet or a fan. It was stunning to view for the first time because even I didn't know you could go so far. You can even edit videos in real time. Some people look so insane I am not sure if they are still human. They do have a feature called Sanity Sunday where anyone can post unedited content. Ocassionally it will be just regular girls showing off cellulite or sometimes it is a post from a makeup brand where the model actually has skin texture. 

Now I am sure there are people who would say that it should be obvious to people that anything online in edited. Anything that is coming from a major corporation is retouched and changed to be flawless.  Unfortuately that is not the case. In the UK or some other part of Europe they have passed a law stating that all altered images must be labled as such. I think that is a great law and we could use that here in the U.S. because the public figures and the large corporations' misuse of images are very damaging to all of us. People deserve to see real images. 
