In today's society, the workplace is regarded as the means of advancement in technology, healthcare, science and several other significant areas. Without such workers, we are unable to succeed in creating a better world for future generations to come. Thus, employers are suggested to incentivize such employees and workers in a number of ways. Through incentizes such as higher pay through sales, this ultimately leads to competition between workers of the same company. This rivalry might initially seem to better the overall workplace, but can cooperation lead to more efficiency? 

During the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, we had seen an influx of several patients being admitted to hospitals and clinics alike. Healthcare professionals were forced to not only risk their own lives to help the sick and infected, but were also lead to cooperate with one another despite short staffing, poor working conditions, and lack of PPE and proper equipment. Previous to the pandemic, workers were free to compete with one another with a lack of regard to their coworkers. However, during the pandemic, this changed dramatically as workers were driven to cooperate by sharing the load of patients that would increase exponentially for months. As this occurred, citizens began to realize the power of cooperation and its effects on not just the workplace itself, but the clients and patients themselves as well. With this cooperation, workers were able to help more people in a shorter amount of time by setting aside differences for a common goal. Working was not simply to gain success and recognition in order to gain a raise, but to brainstorm ideas that would overall benefit all workers and help them succeed as one solid unit.

Some may argue that rivalry and competition has garnered the most amount of success throughout history and across time in cases such as the Space Race between the Soviet Union and the United States. By competing with one another for such infamy of being the first country to go to space, aerospace engineers and scientists were forced to work at lightning speeds and utilize their scientific research. While this battle seems to hasten advancements, one might argue that had the Soviet Union and the United States worked together by combining efforts, more could have been done in a less amount of time. We can imagine that the Soviet Union, at the time, could have put their efforts towards a certain portion of the space project (such as aerospace research) while the United States focused on the physical parts needed to enter Earth's orbit. With both powerful countries working together, there is a probably chance that much more would have been achieved.

As the world continues to fluorish with highly motivated and ambitious individuals, we must take a look at how success is created - either through tense rivalries or collaboration. Though competition might prove tempting, cooperating individuals may be more likely to generate better results through a blend of differing ideas, perspectives, and sheer number of minds that can work together towards any specific objective or purpose. In a society that places more emphasis on competing with each other, the power of collaboration may prove more advantageous in the long run.
