Images and impressions have a massive effect on people, without question!

First impressions, for better or for worse, form lasting impressions and this is all to clear with images. Just think of the amount of advertisements you see on television or youtube where you may have zero clue what the commercial is selling, but you will remember the memes, quotes and images long after the segment has ended.

As for my own anecdotal proof, I submit to you: Geico. I've been watching Geico ads for over 20 years. I *think* they sell car insurance or something, not sure. I just know it's so easy to even a caveman can use Geico! Or that an amusing lizard is getting into some hijinks and the words "Geico" appear somewhere in the commercial. So whenever I'm playing a videogame or watching a movie and I hear 'gecko', I think 'Geico', and I think 'cars' and I think 'quality'. That's some really good marketing from those folks. They left an impression so great on me that I'm not sure what they sell but I'm convinced it's high quality and their image is warm.

But that's the good side to images and impressions having an effect on people, but what about the dark side? Where the lasting imrpession is negative and can hurt people? I present to you: minstril shows. You may not have heard of them. They used to be quite popular in the United States where a white person would paint their face charcoal black and 'act' black, which was lazy, boistorious and a bunch of other negative stereotypes played up for comedy.  These minstril shows left a large impression on people who may not have ever seen a black person before in their lives, or at least had much first experience with them. 

So what is the common ground between Geico and minstril shows? Apologies to Geico for comparing them to something grotesque but both left a massive impression with their imagery. Constant reiforcement of it's images and impressions over time just seep into both the individual and public consciousness and for better or for worse, influence how people think and operate in society. So in conclusion, while it is pretty much impossible to be 'immune' to being exposed to such images and impression, we can control how we react to them. So I will end this by asking you, the dear reader, to just be aware of seeing imagery and impressions multiple times. Make fun of it, challenge it, acknowledge it, learn from it!




