Everyone is always trying to pursue happiness.  This is something that eludes many of us.  We are always looking for that thing that can bring us eternal happiness.  What could it be?  Perhaps it is different for each of us.  It might not be fair to pinpoint it as one specific thing.  It can probably come from many different sources.  For those that look for it, and never seem to find it though, they are given tons of advice from others as to where to find it.  They are told to follow their dreams and accomplish their goals, yet this doesn't always work for people.  Others are told that helping others and taking your focus away from self will lead you down the path.  But is that always true for everyone?

If there was such an easy remedy, then there would probably not be the need for so many different medications for mental health and people would probably not be dealing with so much anxiety and self-medicating.  The truth is, there is probably not one answer for this for any person.  The answer probably changes constantly throughout a person's life as well.  This week, focusing on their own goals might bring them happiness, however next week it might bring greater joy to them if they focus on others.  

Another issue is we place such an emphasis on being happy all the time.  It is okay to have moments in life that are not going so well.  With social media and scrutiny from everyone else in general, we are under pressure at all time to appear to have perfect lives.  The truth is, we all have times that are low and not fun.  We all have dips in our life where happiness is just not an option.   That is okay.  We need to accept that reality and realize that these times will pass.  There are more emotions to life then being happy or sad.  

Back to the idea of happiness.  I do feel that if you take the focus off of yourself, you do tend to experience more joy.  Helping others and seeing them accomplish can do more for your soul then just about anything else.  That can keep you happy in the long-term.  Focusing mostly on yourself and accomplishing your own goals can make you happy, but that happiness might be short-lived.  There will always be other goals that you feel you need to accomplish in order to feel good enough about yourself and as a result - feel happy.  When you see the work you do for others and see how it can change their lives, now that can create some very permanent and long-term satisfaction which can translate into some long-term happiness.

Regardless of how you find your happiness, just remember that happiness can be rather fleeting.  It can stick around for a while, but it can also be a matter of perspective.  Some people wake up every day and try to start their day with happiness.  It can be a mindset that you can practice.  Focus on the positive and this can lead to some greater happiness.  Do accept however, that there will be days and times that just are dark and gloomy, and that is okay.  That is life for all of us and it is normal and just part of being a human.  On those days, take care of yourself and remember not to be too critical on yourself or others.  That can make those days pass without much problems so you can move on to happier times.
