Happiness is the goal of virtually every living people today.  Many people chase frivilous things like plastic surgery, possessions, and social status as a means to happiness.  Most people find that after they acheive things with monetary value; they are left with even more wanting and disillusionment.  So one must ask themselves if true happiness is nothing more than a vapor in the wind that is ultimately unattainable.  It seems that most people are unable to find personal happiness because its very nature stems from a selfless origin.  Most people that would identify themselves as happy, are actively involved in trying to make others happy rather than themselves.

While the idea of finding personal happiness only coming from seeking to provide happiness in others seems counter productive.  One only needs to look at the pattern of most parents.  Good, content parents seem rather quickly to embrace a role of providing enjoyment for their children before themselves.  Look at how much the average parent is willing to invest their time, money, and energy in things like sports and clubs for the enjoyment of their kids.  These people before kids often said they didn't have time to do various things, yet when their kids came along it all changed.  Still, these parents continue to make sacrifices for their children because the happiness of the child brings the highest level of happiness in the parent.  This works itself out in marriages too.  When a marriage is at its happiest points, the significant other is seeking to make their spouse happy over themselves.  They are willing to give up their personal desires for the other.

One may say things like money does provide a level of comfort, parents usually seem overwhelmed, and marriages don't last in the current culture.  While this seem like compelling counter arguments, they actually further validate the original argument.  Money is not bad and does all one to get out of the weight of finances that can feel crippling.  More often than not, when one allows stuff and money to be the source of comfort and happiness; they reinvent the standard needed to be comfortable when they reached the previous line so they can have more and more which creates an infinite loop of trying to get and then that not being enough.  This is often why so many celebrities live lavish lives yet struggle with depression and cope with drugs.  Vanity does not provide happiness.  Lets look at the parents are miserable and divorces are high argument.  The reason that parents and marriages get to a negative place can be summed up in a single word, selfishness.  Parents often make their kids achievements about themselves rather than the happiness of the kid.  Also, spouses decide they need to get their first and don't look to make their mate happy over their own wants and desires.  

When one asks how to be happy, it must first start with not looking for happiness within themselves but in others.  A story once came out that said that Butan was the happiness place on earth.  In fact, they have governmental policy in place to monitor the happiness of their citizens.  While this may seem like a weird thing for the government to try to regulate, it forces the country to seek to look towards the societal happiness over the individual.  This results in one looking to make others happy so that they find true happiness.  Butan is not a wealthy country.  It does not have the resources that a country like USA has, yet the average citizen would probably identify as happier.  In the USA people are seeking their happiness through selfish endeavors more often than not while a country like Butan isn't worried about their individual accomplishments and happiness but that of their neighbors.  The funny thing is that looking to make others happy; they actually find it at the highest level themselves. 
