"You didn't build that," is a partial quote from former President Obama that people will often use to criticism him.  The rationale behind this criticism is that he wasn't properly giving respect to the people who work hard to build their businesses, better themselves, or otherwise achieve success in America.  Naturally, these criticisms ignore the context of that quote, a context that acknowledges that, yes, you worked hard for where you are in life, but you wouldn't be where you are without the help and support from other people.  President Obama's message was a true almost a decade ago as it is today: success is best acheived through cooperation.

While we may celebrate successful individuals, those successes are always the result of teams.  We look to Neil Armstrong as the first man on the moon, but his success was the success of many NASA scientists and astronaughts who worked hard to develop the technology to make that moon landing possible.  His success is shared by the crews of all previous space missions, by politicians who worked to get funding for NASA, and by the families who supported those workers emotionally, physically, socially or otherwise.  Teams of people, collaborating and working together, put humans on the moon, developed vaccines that save lives, contributed to the elections of political leaders, invented technologies that make our lives easier, and created impactful cultural touchstones through television shows, movies, etc.  

Further, cooperation is at the heart of the human condition.  Our entire social structure is built on cooperation.  Humans have long come together into social groups that recognize the benefits of working together, be that in tribes, city-states, feudal kingdoms, or modern governments.  We create roads, railways, air travel, schools, public parks/recreation, and a host of societal improvements based on the cooperative nature of government.  Without coming together to do this, we would not have access to the most basic of human needs (here's looking at running water).

Some might say that these accomplishments are the result of competition.  They might say, for example, that Apple was forced to develop the iPhone was a way to compete in the modern technology market.  While this might be what initially spurned them to create such a device, it was the cooperation between all parties at Apple that was responsible for this success.  At a micro-level, Apple would have imploded if each individual employee was competing against all of the other employees to make the best version of the iPhone.  It is through the cooperation and collaboration between software engineers, product managers, marketing, graphic designers, and a host of others that the iPhone became such a resounding success.

So when you consider the impact of competition vs cooperation, think on your own life.  Surely there are times where you were driven to succeed - perhaps even initally by a competative spirit.  But the process of getting to that success was certainly steadily pushed forward by cooperation with others -  perhaps cooperation with your coaches, your teammates, your spouse, your friends, or your coworkers.  Even when you're alone, writing an essay about cooperation, you are still working together with the research team, providing them with data.
