Materialism is a common, though controversial, subject in today's society.  With the need and want for more, more, more, modern society is enveloped with material things.  People spend more on material things than ever before, and it's creating many issues in our world.

As time goes on, people are more often equating material posessions with happiness.  Social media is partly to blame for this.  Gone are the days of carefree outside time for kids, and open time around the dinner table for families.  Enter ipads, tablets, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc.  People feel the need to acquire things and post them on social media.  While social media has it's positive aspects, such as allowing people to connect at any time, people also crave the instant attention that comes from posting about the stuff they have, and social media allows that.  This creates a spiral effect of obtaining more material things, spending more and more money, and craving attention.  This in turn attributes to a declining mental health state, as people are losing connectivity within each other.

Sales and production of many items have skyrocketed over the past few decades.  More money is being spent in our economy than ever before.  While this drives production, and in one way helps our economy, it also causes people to spend more than they are able to, such as with credit cards.  Personal debt rises, and people find themselves unable to come out of the debt hole that purchasing material things created.  On one side, the more material things you have, the more successful in life you are deemed.   In today's world, everyone feels the need for the most expensive car, the biggest house, the nicest clothing, and more and more...stuff.  But once people tire of their things, they end up in landfills, the oceans, and are polluting the world.  It's an issue in today's world that seems to be getting worse by the year.  Keeping up with the newest and shiniest things can be exhausting, and many people long for past times with more simplicity. 

Materialism is a subject that people love and disklike at the same time.  Working hard and acquiring the things people need is a must.  Acquiring things people simply want is rewarding, but has become an issue over the past few decades.  The population must find a balance between needs and wants.  Materialism is beginning to rule over the world, and people as a whole need to work together to simplify our means of happiness. 
