  Everywhere a person looks there are images, written words, and products that try to entice you to support a specific cause, person, or product. It is very hard to determine what is true and not true because of the sensory bombardment we are constantly barraged with. It is necessary for stricter enforcement of rules that will allow a person to make an informed decision on matters that mean the most.  
   A person can get lost in the rhetoric and showmanship. It can be hard not to be swayed by someone who is a mesmerizing speaker. It is easy to be caught up in the glamour and glitz and lose sight of the actual message that is being presented. It is extremely hard when a person attends an event in person. When a crowd starts feeding off a politician or entertainer, it can actually become a living, breathing entity and almost seems to take on a mind of it's own. Even people who normally wouldn't be caught up in the fevor can be drawn into the "hive mentality" of a crowd and do and say things that they normally wouldn't.
   Those that appear in front of other people to promote themselves or a cause should be held accountable for their actions and words if those actions cause harm to equipment, property, or another person. A person stating that they have no control over what others do is disingenuous and a "passing of the buck". Most people that command huge audiences and have lots of followers know exactly what they are doing and are skilled in electing the types of emotions in others that they want. Personal responsibility and accountability should go hand in hand with any message a point that is made.
  There are those that will argue against any rules this by stating that everyone has a mind and that regardless of what is said and how it is said it is an individual's responsibility on how they react to a message and what they do in response to a message. One of the most often cited argument is that everyone has the right to "Free Speech" and there should never be any  censorship aginst that and that all speech is protected.
  However; there have always been rules, both formal and informal, against certain types of speech. Hate speech against any group, gender, or sex is universally recognized as abhorrant. There are rules against yelling "Fire" in a crowded auditorium or theater. These types of speeches come with consequences, both socially and criminally.
  In conclusion, what a person says matters. Both in the message being put out and in the reponse in the reception of that message. There has been a lot of divisive talk and actions in our country. The political arena has been permanently stained with the viscious personal attacks and dehumanizing vitriol spewed by all. People have forgotten that we are all Americans and we should be striving for a common goal of courtesy and respect for all. I can vehemently disagree with your stand on an issue and still consider you my neighbor and friend. We should all learn this important lesson.
