As time goes on and the world becames more advanced, society has become more materialistic. Industrialization and advancement in the sciences has allowed people to earn more money than before. With the extra money, people now can buy items and services to make their lives easier and for pure entertainment. It has shifted many things in society like cultural values and prorities. Is society becoming worse because of materialism?

I argue that society is in fact becoming worse due to materialism. It is not wrong to buy and own things. In fact, it is good because it has allowed people to make their lives easier. However, in my opinion, materialism has made our societal values worse. People are becoming more selfish. They chase money all throughout their lives. They become slaves to money and forget the basic values for a good society.

Society is now worshipping the rich and powerful. You can see it all over the media nowadays. Actors, musicians, and social media influencers have gained millions of fans. The fans love these celebrities for their lavish lives. The celebrities live in huge mansions, drive fancy cars, and wear the most ridiculous clothes and accessories. Everyone wants to live like them. They want to get rich so that they can too live the fancy life. Thus, they chase after the money. However, most people will never be able to gain enough wealth to live this kind of life. Some people have resorted crime. They steal and use violence to gain wealth. This has caused society to get worse. Crime and violence has increased throught the years. People would rather scam others and use people as stepping stones than to help out the poor. This type of behavious has become very prevalent as time goes on. For example, people have been shilling cryptocurrency and NFTs. It is all a scam. Another example, is that some YouTube videos show people doing ridiculous things for money and fame. There are videos that show 1 person eating tons of food enough to feed several  people. Wealth is getting concentrated in the hands of the few. The poor and discriminated keep getting the short end of the stick.

Some people argue that materialism has given people something to dream towards. Perhaps that is a good thing. However, the consequences do not outweigh the benefits. People should focus on volunteerism instead of wealth seeking. People are becoming more selfish and condescending due to materialism.

As I have said before, materialsm has some benefits like giving people a goal to work towards. However, the goods do not outweigh the consequences. Materialism has eroded society. It has caused people to become more selfish. It has caused an increase in crime and seeing people as stepping stones for their own selfish goals.
