The prompt I read was about "Materialism", specifically, "Should modern society be criticized for being materialistic?" Being 76 years old and having the experience I have had, I find that it's all about how one is raised. My home as a child was lower, working class and I can remember seeing the check that dad brought home one week, in the amount of $86. That was the amount Mom, dad, my brother, sister and I had to live on. But this was the 1950s and to be quite honest, there was no complaining, we made do with what we had. Not too long ago, my wife, mentioned that her Mom used to reuse the aluminim foil that she used. She would unwrap it from how she used it, smooth it out and then reuse it, when the time came.
Of course, as I advanced in life, I found that the more I made, the more I could afford different things. But having been raised as I was, I felt I was wise enough to place my priorities on necessities. There were savings of course, which were used for special occasions or maybe a bit of a vacation once a year, or for emergencies. This especially when I had a family of my own, which started when I was right out of the military at age 22. But I do understand materialism, there are always things we'd like to have and buy, but the question has to be asked, "can I afford that?" I've heard of situations too where, say for instance, a wife and husband may not be on the same page as far as spending and that can certainly put stress on a relationship, or a family in general, which naturally is sad. But I guess it's something that should be talked about beforehand.
So back to the question, should modern society be criticized for being materialistic? My thoughts are that it's up to each and every individual, their situation in life, their values and their responsibilities. "Society", which to me means the "whole" can express itself in any way it wishes, it's up to the individual to accept how and what is presented to them any way they wish. It's personal responsibility, do what is right for yourself, your loved ones and those around you.
