Images and impressions have a severe amount of effects on people.  Everyday, people worry if they are putting off the right image.  In America, we have a saying of "Keeping Up with the Joneses".  This means people care so much about their image they will do anything to show that they meet the social standard of what is expected of them.

In today's society, people explicitly believe that social standing is based off of their appearances and the impression they give to others.  People believe they need the right car, the right house, the perfect family experience.  Social Media has not helped these circumstances, by letting everyone "show off" how perfect their life is.  Everyday, people are showing off the wonderful things they have in life.  This can be great if the things are true, however, most people's lives are not as great as they seem.  Most people hide any downside they have in life.  There's no discussions of fights they have, the struggles they have, or any bad things that may occur in their life.  Everything has to be picture perfect.  This only hurts everyone else who then sees that  their life too also needs to be picture perfect.  It places a false persona on everyone to expect that life will have no struggles.  It's not an accurate portrayal of how life is, it's not as easy as it looks, and most people truly are not sure everything they do is correct.

Some people may try and say how their life truly is what their images show, but in reality, no one gets to see behind the scenes.  While their life may seem perfect and they get to take all these trips, no one sees how much they spend, how in debt they are trying to keep with appearances and how lonely they actually are.  The news loves to show off the lives of celebrities and show these great images of luxury and experiences.  They help portray that everything is wonderful and that everyone's lives should be like that, but they don't focus on the reality of the situtation.  They don't show the money spent, the friendships these people have or that they too still struggle, maybe not financially, but in other aspects of life.  The "influencers" of todays world are the epitomy of keeping up with the Joneses.  They give off the vibe of having the perfect lifestyle, but when you are having to plan every bit of your experience to make it look like you're having a great time, are you truly actually having a great time? Or is it all just a fairytale experience?

The effects of social media, news, and the influence of others shows the effect of images and impressions weigh deeply on society.  We as a whole will do whatever we can to show just how wonderful our life is, while never showing the true reality of it.  Everything put out in these sources are for looks because of the focus on image and how others perceive it.  
