People achieve more success by cooperation than competition. If we want significant, lasting and positive accomplishments in this world, we should be promoting cooperation. Cooperation is more powerful because it leads to more positive relationships. Cooperation also promotes a more positive atmosphere in work and play. Finally, while competition may promote individuals performing at their peak, cooperation allows for us to go beyond any one person's peak to be greater than the sum of the parts. 

Positive relationships are critical to a productive and appealing work and play environment. Promoting positive relationships through building atmospheres that encourage cooperation over competition should thus be emphasized.  While competition may drive people to achieve victories, it can also pit people against each other and make it difficult to establish positive relationships. Through cooperation, people build an appreciation for those around them and bond over a shared experience.Positive relationships then lead to increased satisfaction in work and play, which promotes a more positive atmosphere. A positive atmosphere then leads to increased productivity. 

Not only does focusing on cooperation over competition promote positive relationships, positive atmospheres, and positive productivity, it also promotes top results. Competition may lead individuals to give their best performance. However, any one person's ability will never be as great as their ability if they combine with other people. Cooperation allows the best of everyone to come together in one result that is better than anything any one person could produce on their own. Through cooperation there is the ability to balance everyone's strengths and weaknesses. While allowing everyone to contribute and feel valued, this also results in the best outcomes.

Overall, while competition may seem like the best thing to emphasize when trying to get people to avoid failure and focus on achievements, it does not actually result in the most success. Through promoting cooperation, everyone involved is able to have the same level of success. In addition, that success is greater than anything a person could achieve on their own. Cooperation allows for greater success than competition, in part because it promotes positive relationships and atmospheres. Cooperation is the winning choice all around if we want the greatest success and the most enjoyable route to get that success.
