Competition is the law of nature, as it has been said for centuries.  However, is is true that competition brings more success than cooperation?  There are many interesting sides to this question and I intend to show that cooperation is more likely to bring about more success. 

I believe that cooperation brings about more success because competition brings a lot of stress with it.  When everyone is cooperating, that stress is gone and success is able to come as an end result.  Furthermore, I think people achieve more success when they cooperate because they want the best for everyone and no one is pitted against others.  Competition makes you want to out do others but when those people cooperate together they are able to work together and everyone is able to contribute.  Also, I think cooperation brings about a lot of diversity and when there is diversity, there are more viewpoints that someone may overlook when they are trying to outperform someone as in a competition setting.  Lastly, cooperation can create nice work relationships with others and open communication.  When people cooperate with others they are open to hearing each other out.

I know that some people think competition is neccescary because then people will not be incentivized to work hard.  I think that is not the case and when people cooperate with others they work hard too, to pull their weight on their team and to be a good team player.  Also, some people may say that competition is the law of nature and it drives people to succeed.  That may be the case for some people, but with all the stress that comes with competition, I think many people would rather cooperate with others instead of causing extra stress in their lives.  There is already a lot of stress in people's lives why would people want to create more undue stress when they could prevent that altogether.  I think when people have to compete against others their work can suffer and they don't do their best work.

As you can see from my viewpoint, I have to say that cooperation is more important to success than competition.  Cooperation brings less stress, people want to pull their weight and be a team player, it allows diversity, and it helps create lasting relationships with others.  With all these benefits I think it is clear that cooperation brings about much more success, and success that lasts.  So, in the end maybe competition is not as great as people think and cooperation is more important to creating lasting success.


