Psychologists, philosophers, religious thinkers, and self-help gurus do not likely agree on much, but I strongly suspect they would agree that many people living today are too materialistic. I happen to agree with that stance, myself. The pursuit of material goods over (or as a surrogate for) personal meaning or strong interpersonal relationships often leads to such unhealthy mental or emotional patterns, which can make an individual's life less pleasant. For instance, the more emphasis one places on obtaining goods, the less emphasis that person might be able to place on relationships. Compounding this tendency to isolate individuals is the temptation to compare oneself (often unfavorably) to the individuals around oneself based on the type or amount of stuff one has obtained.

Using myself as an example, I can illustrate both of these concepts. As a graduate student some twenty years ago, I developed an insecurity that was largely related to outward displays of "adulthood" or of my intellectual prowess. I accumulated items such as couches, stereos, and many books less because I wanted them than because I felt I would be insufficient as an adult or English literature student without them. I ended up stressing myself out over finances, spending time shopping or researching which book I "needed" to own, and worrying about whether I was missing anything when I could have been enjoying the city I lived in or building stronger relationships with the people I studied alongside.

It was not until I was a college professor myself that I really began to recognize that my difficulties were consistent with what many people would call imposter syndrome. In other words, my pursuit of goods that I felt would make me "a real academic" was nothing more than a manifestation of a neurosis. My buying behavior was essentially a symptom of a psycho-emotional problem. When I took my first teaching job, I quickly found that my friendships with colleagues and my mentorship of students were infinitely more rewarding than any of the purchasing behaviors that I had found so consuming previously.

In the years since that time, I have returned to a healthier mode of living. While I have continued to accumulate books, most of them have been for pleasure. The remaining volumes either fit into my research agenda or support my classroom preparations. 

I have found that giving gifts is frequently more rewarding than accumulating items, so I have given students many books over the years. In that sense, I turned my earlier purchases into investments in relationships. Quite literally, the less I have in such instaces, the more pleasant I feel.

With this shift away from materialism, I have developed a conscious effort to value experiences. I have a close friend I admire for his ability to always prioritize his relationships. He lives a frugal life, dwelling in a small studio apartment, but lives a large life. He spends a great deal of time chatting with his students after lectures, regularly enjoys meals and other gatherings with friends, and rarely turns down any offer to do something new. I try to emulate him since I believe his lack of emphasis on material goods and his concurrent emphasis on relationships is not only admirable but exemplary. I strive to be more like him.

It has been difficult for me to socialize during the pandemic, of course, but I have chosen to nevertheless try to live rather than simply buy things to fill the emotional void left by all the isolation. I have deliberately spent more time outside in nature and have used the telephone and video conferencing applications to not only maintain but to strengthen my relationships with others.

There have been a few moments when I have lapsed into my old ways of buying the things I thought I needed, but I have not experienced enough of life to recgnize what I am doing and to rein myself in. Now, I occasionally buy something as a treat for myself, but I try to buy things that either provide experiences (such as novels to read for enjoyment or outdoor gear to use on a hike) or that genuinely add something of quality to my life. I am much better off this way and I only wish I could have taken this approach when I was younger.
