Competition and cooperation are generally seen on opposite poles. That is, if you're competitive, then you're not cooperative and vice versa. However, I think the two can coexist. Competition can be a driver towards success, and cooperation too can be conducive to success. Unlike some people, I certainly don't promote competition as the only way to achieve success, unless "competition" means being competitive with oneself.

I believe in being competitive with oneself. That is, one should always be working hard and smart to improve skills, grow as human being, and try to self-actualize. The commonly quoted getting 1 percent better every day is a good approach. But I don't think it's necessary to be competitive with others.
        
How can you win at, say, a tennis game without being competitive? The answer is simple. Do your best! Practice playing the physical game of tennis and have mastery over your mindset. I believe in mastering oneself, not necessarily one-upping someone else. Even if goal of tennis game is to beat the other player, it's not really me versus the other player. It's just me and being the best player I can be by working hard (while hopefully still having fun). 

Since no man (or woman) is an island, so to speak, it's good to cooperate to create a win-win situation. However, there are limits to this. For instance, if you are a CEO of a company, you don't want to give away the secrets to your success to competitive businesses. In business, there is of course competition, as you want to have more customers than other businesses who are vying for the same customers. However, even then, it's not about beating the other companies (though you might research and learn about your competitors so that you can make your own company more alluring to customers). But the bottom line is about being effective on your own terms.

Beyond competing with myself, I personally prefer the cooperative approach. But one's approach should align with who an individual is. Some people seem to be by nature more competitive and some more cooperative. Either way or both will work.  The important thing is to be fair. If you're competitive, make sure you treat others right. And if you're cooperative, the point is to get along. When you get along with others, it's a win-win. And competition and cooperation aren't on opposite poles after all.

     
     
