     Because we live in a material universe, philosophical materialism is extremely difficult to avoid, although it is not always a beneficial point-of-view. Although I have reservations about some deleterious effects of materialism, I do not think that society should be criticized for being materialistic. 
     There are a number of valid reasons for holding this position.
     Our existence in the physical universe, in which our primary stimulation often comes via the five physical senses (mental activity -- thought -- is often a secondary stimulus) means that we are naturally seek the pleasurable sensations that reach us through sight, smell, taste, hearing, and touch. 
     We label these pleasurable sensations "good", and we label unpleasant sensations "bad". 
     When we are exhorted to seek the "good" in life, we often pursue good physical sensations without even considering the option of devoting time, instead, to internal, congnitive mechanisms such as reflection, contemplation, and analysis -- which are "good", perhaps superior, but which do not often produce the same degree of instant gratification that can come from such physical activities as running one's hand across velvet, smelling a rose, watching a sunset, or having sexual intercourse. 
      Because we associate material pleasures with good, we seek not only good sensations but also the acquisition of objects (often at great cost) that can bring us an increasingly acute degree of physical stimulation and pleasure -- things such as race cars, big houses on the beach, well-tailored, expensive clothes, perhaps a series of sexual encounters with random, attractive individuals about whom one secretly cares very little, and so forth. 
     The physical sensations we seek tend to be increasingly acute because once we find ourselves sated by one degree of physical pleasure, we often find ourselves bored with that level of reward, so we must "up the ante" and seek increasingly greater degrees of stimulation. 
      There are, of course, voices in our society who exhort us to eschew materialism and focus, instead, on spritual, intellectual, and philanthropic pursuits. These voices include members of the clergy of all established religions, as well as various, secular mystics, pundits and philosophers.
     Ironically, however, most of these anti-materialists are steadily growing quite financially comfortable - -- the clergy by passing the collection plate at religious services, the secularists by writing books and releasing videos and podcasts. The anti-materialst voices in our society (particularly organized religion) ultimately cave-in and become poseurs -- materialists masquerading as anti-materialsits. 
      Why? Because they are human, after all, and just as subject to the pleasure of driving the fast car or bedding the beautiful sexual partner as anyone else. 
    

