 In a capatilist country like America, eveything is for sale and everything can be marketed. Heavy handed advertisments selling you the American dream are influenial enough when you're give a sales pitch at every movie theater, grocery store, billboard, magazine, newspaper, and bus stop. But with the internet becoming a nessecity for modern life and the rise of social media, I believe our society has become dangerously obsessed with self image. 

The internat is a modern miricle and massive tenologigal accomplishment for our lifestime. No one can deny that the invention of the intenet and it's ever growing accesibilty has had a significant positive impact on research, journalisim, education, and many other important factors to a functioning and flourishing society. However, too much of a good thing can become toxic, and there is staggaring evidence pointing to the damage the internet and social media can have on the psyche. When tweens and teenagers are constantly exposed to influencers and models with photoshopped abs, advertisments for weightloss products, graphic pornography, violent images, and celberities flauting their lives full of sportscars, drugs, and nightclubs... it's no wonder that eatig disorderes, depression, anxiety, and even death by suicide is at an all time high for youth in America. 

While children and their under developed brains are certainly among the most impressionable, adults are not immune to the negative effect of modern technology and the exposure to contant comparrasion, information, and advertising. Mellinnials, the first genertaion to gorw up with the internet, are the most depressed and unsatisfied generation of all time. While much of that can be contributed to other factors, such as political climate, climate change, and econimoic decline, there's something to be said for experiecnig this timeline in American history while logged into social media and streaming news reports 24/7.

Humans are resilliant. We are creative and innovative creatures who are capable of incredible advancements and discoveries. But our human brains are not computers and have not evolved to consume media for hours on end. Being advertised to and fed information non-stop is not something we are capable of simply tuning out either. Humans evolved as a species due to our inate desire to share informations with eachother so that we may all be more knowledgeable and learn from one another. We have a natural desire to conenct with other people and seek out answers, but technology has progressed faster than our brains could possibly evolve to handle connection and knowledge at such a capacity. This is why advertising, new outlests, the general media, hollywood, and the majority of social media is a manipulative and insidious danger to our society. 


