Happiness is something that can only be defined internally.  Therefore, a person's intrinsic motivations are the only driver of their true hapiness.  It is impossible to truly achieve happiness through selflessness, because even if one choses to act altruistically, these acts are still motivated by an internal desire for altruisim.  Therefore, focusing on personal goals is the only way to acheive happiness.

Happiness is acheived when an end to which a person strives is acheived.  Whether that end is selfish or selfless is irrelevent.  The path to happiness follows the pattern: A person sets a goal.  A person works to acheive that goal.  A person acheives their goal, and therefore experiences happiness.  

An example of a selfish person could be a ruthless criminal.  They set their goal: rule the underworld of a city.  They ruthlessly eliminate their competition.  Upon eliminating their competition, they create havoc and despair, but are happy with their results.  They have acheived happiness by focusing on a personal goal, happiness of others be damned.  

An example of an altruistic person could be a charity worker.  They set their goal: feed all of the homeless in the city.  They raise money and found shelters. They give of their own time and money.  Upon feeding all of the homeless, they are happy with their results.  They may seem different than the ruthless criminal.  However, their motivation is still their personal goal; to spread happines to others.  They are serving others because serving others makes them happy.  However, this is still an inherently self-serving act, as they are seeking to fulfill their on happiness.  

As a personal example, I participate every year at Christmas in a giving tree.  While this is an altruistic act, in which I strive to provide happiness to a needy family by allowing them to have a better Christmas; knowing that I am providing a better Christmas brings me personal joy, and thus satisfies a personal goal.

Even when considering religious motivations, altruisim and focusing on the happiness of others is inherently selfish, as these acts are taken to advance the goal of one's own personal salvation.  Therefore, altruism in the name of religion could be considered an ultimate act of selfishness.  

If a person is taking any act whatsoever, unless being forced, they are taking an act to satisfy an internal goal.  Whether that goal is selfless or selfish, it still by definition is a personal goal.  If a person is focusing on the happiness of others, they are still doing so as a personal goal.  Therefore, by defenition, the only way to achieve hapiness is to focus on ones own personal goals, whether those goals are self centered or altruistic.  
