What is real?  We live in a world where people are the products.  Instagram, facebook, television, everything we use is there to make us want more.  We have to constantly question whether or not what we are seeing and consuming is an ad bought and sold to us to get us to consume more.  The people we once trusted, our politicians, celebrities, role models, and even family members, can be bought and sold in a way to sell us products and make us want to consume more.

In this age of modern consumerism, everyone can be bought and sold.  For example, there is a popular person on Twitch, a video game and lifestyle live streaming platform, who released their own beuaty line.  Thousands of this persons followers clamoured to these products immediately without thought.  It was later revealed that a company used this streamer as a figure head to just sell their products and didn't actually have any input on the product being sold whatsoever.  It was found out later these products were unethically created and contained massive amounts of carcinogens and the product didn't do what it was meant to do.  The company disbanded but the streamer made off and is still producing content to this day.  This is just one example of how every day people are bought into the notion of these influencers and celebrities where we are the product being sold to by these mega corporations.  These people and what we put out there have a major impact on our consumer behavior and influencing what we think we want.

Everyone is bought and sold nowadays and it is growing at an very alarming rate.  People now have to post whether or not the product they are promoting is an ad, and even if it is, we can trust that these peoples reactions are authentic.  What is authentic now, when people are paid to constantly shill and produce products.  To a grander extentent social media now uses our data that we voluntarily give them to send advertisements, products, and other services to us and in turn they give these vendors our data.  It is a troubling conundrum where these billion dollar companies and these influencers are actively affecting our behaviors and in a way predicting them as well.  When they are able to actively predict our wants and needs, has their ability to impress upon us become too powerful?  Is it dangerous when if one person tweets or posts something it causes millions if not tens of millions to react in a dangerous or troubling way?

On January 6, 2021, whether or not you are a republican or democrat it was troubling to watch.  Donald Trump and several republicans were able to sew so much discord that caused people to be so bought into the idea that election fraud occured.  This small subset of people were able to cause so much influence on people that they began to storm the capitol building in frightening visuals.  This was all done because a small subset of people were able to influence millions of peoples' mindset and really galvanize them into believing something that may have never happened.  It truly shows the power and danger that influence and social media can have people and society as a whole.

We are the product.  When something is free like social media platforms, search engines, web sites, etc. you have to be wary of the alternative motives.  Nothing is free.  We are the consumer and the product at the same time and with the constant connection we have to people and the world it will continue to grow.  All it takes is one celebrity like Kim Kardashian or athlete like Tom Brady or a politician like Donald Trump to get you to buy into a product or service.  We are made to consume and we are impressionable when what people are selling is considered normal and what modern culture wants you to buy.  It is a very scary world when we have to consider what is real and what isn't when it comes to these peoples' true preferences and whether or not the things we buy and the way we look is truly authentic.
