Images and impressions make more of an impact on people than they should.  Many factors contribute to people favoring style over substance.

In some cases, people don't have much ability to judge something on its actual content rather than flashy images or video.  This is because the content is not shown until after a purchase is made.  One example is a video game commercial that only shows cutscenes from the video game.  These are usually the parts of the game with the best graphics and perhaps the most emotional content.  However, the bulk of the game may be something else entirely.  Maybe the game player will see 3D models with less detail than in the cutscenes during most of the game.  Maybe the game will mostly be a game board with small representations of characters compared to what is seen in the cutscenes.  Some people have probably been tricked into buying a video game thinking it has incredible graphics when most of the game is actually not that good.

People may also choose to listen more to people who look good rather than choosing them based on their messages.  If you believe that all the things people say are boring, wouldn't you like to hear those words from someone with a pretty face?  Some people may also think that a person who minds his or her looks also has better things to say.  Unfortunately, a makeup artist may be the only difference between an attractive face and an unattractive face.  In that case, a person's appearance has little to do with that actual person and more to do with the makeup artist.  Besides that, maintaining one's appearance is a very different skill from making a convincing argument.  Unfortunately, people usually see someone's appearance before hearing his or her words.  One person's judgment of another can begin before words are spoken.

Some might say that care for appearances can indicate care for substance.  However, the effort put into making something look good could have been used to make that same thing more functional.  People can also take advantage of the fact that you're not supposed to take something out of the box until after you buy it.  Is the attractive product really worth your money, or is it just a way for some company to take your money without being accused of robbery?

If you can, please try to look beneath the surface when judging whether something is good or bad.  If you plan to choose something you want to see or hear for a long time, don't leap for the first shiny object that comes along.  Make sure your decision is a good one before you make the leap.
