Feelings of accomplishment and the pride that one gains when reaching a personal goal can easily be confused with happiness, which is why some people feel that their happiness can only come by focusing on personal goals. True happiness however, is generally found when a person focuses on supporting others and is often found where you might least expect it. Many people have found that they have gone through life completely focused on the next goal, always replacing each accomplishment with another task. First, they do well on exams, then they graduate college, then they get a job, then they get promoted; each of these accomplishments greater than the next but suddenly they find themselves unhappy. Why is that?

It is because true happiness does not come from achieving goals you have set for yourself, rather, it comes from seeing others do well, succeed, or flourish. A father may feel some pride for a recent promotion at work, but that pride is completely overshadowed by the pride he feels seeing his son learn to walk or ride a bicycle. It is human nature to be happiest when you are contributing to the well being and success of others. Many people report that working for a non-profit gives them much higher job satisfaction than working for a for profit corporation. These people know that it feels good to give back and the sense of accomplishment they get from helping others leads to a higher sense of happiness.

As people age, they are all the more likely to find happiness in giving joy to others. This is one reason why grandparents spoil their grandchildren; they have found themselves in a postion where they can afford to do things for others so they do it willingly. They are no longer shackled by the hardships of work and providing for a family so the natural tendency is to do for others because they are wise enough to know that they will enjoy that more than any other behavior, more than achieving any other goal they may set for themselves personally. 

Many people struggle to find happiness; they live their whole lives with a nagging feeling of lack of contentment. I would argue that these people could find what they are looking for by doing volunteer work. I believe they would find great satisfaction in cleaning up a beach, providing a meal to a homeless person, or visiting the elderly; and with this feeling of satisfaction would come the happiness that they seek. So want to be happy? Then spend your life doing for others and find out what it feels like to be truly content.
