Throughout the history of humans our posessions have defined us.  Whether for protection or survival our posessions have assisted us in living our lifes as comfortable and as safely as possible.  Society has continued to progress from our ancient roots, and our possessions and spending habits have transitioned from necessary to survival into mainly consuming for entertainment. 

Imagine a scenario where two independent families are existing and surviving completely on their own in the wilderness.  The families that had more posessions were able to live a safer live.  The posessions provided safety and comfort.  Items could be owned that assisted in hunting, gathering or starting fires.  

As society has progressed our most basic needs for surival are met more easily.  A family no longer needs to rely on gathering food or hunting in order to survive.  These activities have transitioned from necessary into hobbies for entertainment.  As technology has improved the average family can simply purchase the items needed to survive, freeing massive amounts of time and energy to be directed elsewhere.  

With time being freed by improved technology humans have began purchasing items and obtaining posessions not to survive, but to entertain and distract.  No longer is a family required to own and maintain farm equipment, but instead can own and maintain entertainment devices and technology.  

Increased technology continues to provide more free time and longer lives for people to need to fill, and more and more society is choosing to consume rather than produce.  Human nature is to want the easiest and most convenient lives possible - and capitalism has taught us that consuming is the answer to this.  

Consuming without need and instant gratification continue to degrade society and our natural desire to help others.  As people consume more and more they seem to begin to think that their ability to consume is hampered by competition with others.  As we transition from purchasing to survive and be entertained we continue to purchase and consume in order to appear more successful or better off than others.  

Functionally for survival there is no difference between a house that costs $50,000 and $500,000 other than typically size and location.  Both homes should keep you warm and safe in order to survive and be successful.  Why then would a person choose a substantially larger and more expensive house even if that location or size is not necessary for survival?  More and more it seems as though these decisions are being made simply for the appearance to others that the owner is successful and more financially stable.  

There are many far reaching negative affects of this consumer culture.  Peoples lives are being lost and taken advantage of in order to produce cheap and available goods.  As we continue to consume we detach ourselves from the connection between all humans and we continue to marginalize those who are less fortunate or successful.  Society will continue to devolve as late stage capitalism takes hold and changes our values not from what is right - but to: "what is in it for me." 
