Competition is a method of using fear of failure to obtain success. It's been known to cause undo stress, heart attacks, anxiety disorders and so much more. Through cooperation, one can achieve much higher success for longer periods of time without the physiological side-effects of competition. 

Promotions are given to those who work well with higher up management. There are those that would argue that promotions are given because of dedication and strength of knowledge, but if one takes a step back and really observes company dynamics, there is often a trend that occurs. Managers tend to promote those that cooperate well and have built a repoire with the manager. Time has been dedicated to building relationships and connections with those in power. Those are the employees that become the next leaders. They use not only their intellectual ability, but their social ability to push themselves up the corporate latter. 

Cooperation creates a more collaborative environment, allowing employees to become more creative. The more creative the ideas, the greater the chance of success and chance of building a thriving company. When employees are in direct competition with each other, ideas are tucked away and used as chess pieces in a vindictive game of cat and mouse. With cooperation, ideas are allowed to flow smoothly without fear of repercussions. In the long run, better ideas will result in more money and long-term success. 

Cooperation leads to lasting relationships. It's no secret that networking is one of the most valuable attributes in business. Those who are willing to cooperate tend to leave a trail behing of excellent relationships. These relationships can grow into more opportunities down the line that can lead to growth in separate businesses or offerings of services for a new business opportunity. Connections are everything when it comes to changing an idea into a product. Some claim that connections distract from the end goal, but find that getting their product out to the people becomes difficult without the cooperation of others. 

Competition is used throughout history to get results in a stressful environment, but it's not the best method. Through cooperation, not only can a company acheive greater success on the business front but internally within the company. Cooperation brings people together to collaborate and work through problems while creating new ideas. It brings coworkers together instead of tearing them apart. Cooperation causes a company to be united instead of fractured. This leads to success of not only the entire business, but of the individual employees that helped make the company a success. 
