We are often told that we have to make a good first impression, to "fake it 'til you make it. Increasingly, with the use of social media, we are pressured to show the best sides of life and project an image of success and happiness and positivity. Images and impressions have always had a great effect on people, and this idea has been used to great effect by advertisements and propagandas. 

There's a reason why big name companies spend a lot of money in marketing and manufacturing a recognizable brand.  Often times, people buy more recognizeable brands instead of products with similar contents or can do the same thing for much less but with a less recognized brand. For example, YETI cups are a popular insulated drinkware brand that are expensive, and yet you can find products that perform better or equally but are not nearly as popular or expensive. There are a number of products, especially fashion designer brands, that sell based on name instead of the actual quality of the product. 

There have also been a number of politicians and public figures who have been looked upon more favorably because of their perceived charm and good looks and even acting background. A famous example was the first televised debate between Nixon and John F Kennedy, in which people who watched the debate on tv perceived Kennedy as the better candidate while most radio listeners thought Nixon was a better candidate. Many politicians seem to win based on charisma rather than experience; which is not necessarily a bad thing, but then expertise and attention to detail is often left to the wayside. 

In summary, we are heavily affected by images and impressions, both consciously and subcconsiously, especially in an era where we are constantly bombarded by images through our smartphones, social media, and even our environments. Billboards, ads, flashing images tell us what we should think is a good brand, the newest and best product to buy. These messages also tell us what we should think about events, about public figures, and about the world. 
