       In the modern world we are inudated with things and people that we might have impressions of. Sometimes these impressions are in line with reality and sometimes they are not. When the impression is "low stakes" like what clothing we choose to wear it only affects us, but there are also "high stakes" impressions that could have lasting implications for ourselves and the world around us as well. Picture this a woman is walking around the department store and sees a poster of a celebrity she recognizes and sees them holding a gorgeous purse. She looks to her left and sees a whole display of purses. Do you think that she will pick up the bag at least to look at it? If you said yes you would likely be right. While she may not buy the purse the intent is for her to think that if so and so likes this purse why shouldn't I? This is a hypothetical situation, but we could assume she wasn't going in to look at a purse at all. She is then impulse buying something she may not want or need just because someone recognizable was holding it. She represents so many customers who get caught in the same trap of advertisements all vying for your business all the while being unsuspecting of what the advertisers are up to. There are simply too many impressions for the brain to keep up with them all, and the brain makes the decision that logically makes sense to them. Advertisers know this and that is why they use the strategy. 

     An example of a "high stakes" impression that can affect us too much is how a celebrity is revered or even "cancelled". At times it seems there is a bit of a bandwagon approach. Regardless of how a person feels they will treat a celebrity differently because of who they are percieved to be. A documentary that showed damning evidence recently was the one on Jeffery Epstien. While these impressions may be true there will be a small subset of the population that wouldn't be swayed, and would come to his defense. One documentary could change the minds of many for good or bad reasons; someone who was accused of doing far less than Jeffery Epstien could have long standing issues with some body of work out there with bad publicity. Another example of this is someone like Whoopi Goldberg who over the years has had many issues with things she said being taken wrongly. While she may not have meant it the damage has been done. Her perception now may not have reflected reality (her intention), but only how she has been percieved by the people who were or are fans of her. We have biases that if we aren't careful could change how someone important is viewed. If these impressions turn out to not reflect reality then we have destroyed people's lives with little to no evidence. Celebrities are in the public eye but it is easy to forget that they are people too.

      Another example of how people's impressions do have too much of an effect on them is when a celebrity they like endorses a product or creates a product. Regardless if the person really believes that this product is the best they will defend the use of the product because they like the celebrity. The person may never have thought to use the product until the celebrity says they use the product. If the person fails to think for themselves they could quickly fall into the trap advertisers love to set. Unfortunately the human race is impressionable and advetisers use this strategy for a reason...because it works. This is a known fact that adertisers will put almost no energy in showing the product actually works if they have a famous face holding it up. Customers can't even be sure that the product is one the celebrity uses when they are getting paid lots of money to hold up a product to make the companies money. Unless and until we think for ourselves regardless of what another person is doing we will always have an issue of impressions having too much of an effect. 

   To close impressions do have too much of an effect on people because they are all too willing to go along with something just because someone else they respect does rather than thinking for themselves. Advertisers have also picked up on this fact and have used it to their advantage with celebrity endorsements, and unfortunately for the average customer they work, and often the customer ends up with an inpulse buy they didn't mean to get. 
