There is a never ending debate as to whether we should uplift those around us, working with them to further the goals of everybody, or stand on top of them, using our self-perceived strengths to push past those who are not as worthy. We see it in politics, the workplace, sports, and relationships. It is a core part of the human society. Thus, in my experience, I would argue that cooperation is the best path to success, and certainly the most able to stand the test of time. While competition allows those in power to divide the competitors below, cooperation gives power to the lesser, allowing real and lasting change to be created. Many however do not agree, choosing the quick and dirty path, the path of the status quo.
At the most broad level, our current economic system seems to point to both the failures and dangers of a competition based society. The top 1% of the top 1% hold the power, money, and political influence while those without are forced to fight a losing battle to the top. It is also clear this is a path that would benefit the people by the behavior of this 1%, the clear anger and fear shown when cooperation is so much as hinted at. One store unionizes and all of a sudden an entire company shifts its focus to crushing those who stepped out of line, and that is if they even let it get that far. At a more basic level, we see the ability of workplaces to create divisions in their workforce, fear among employees who would greatly benefit from sharing information such as salaries, hiring practices, and corporate favoritism. By creating enemies of our peers, we create an artificial wall that needs to be climbed, a wall that would simply dissapear if we all walked around it.
The other clear issue with our competivite mindset is seen in politics. Our nation, and really every nation, is more divided than it has ever been, with politicians feeding on culture wars, fear-mongering with lies about the otherside. And this is not simpy and issue of the right-wing, though they are certaintly the most at fault. Centrist and even left-wing politicians enjoy the stability of instability, whether in the form of campaign contributions or an unearned vote. Even the fact that we have a two-party system in America is a clear fault of a competitive mindset, though ironically showing the power of cooperation. Every politician needed to be the best, to have the most resources, and so they realized that by pooling with as many other people as possible, they could. Those in the ruling class almost always use cooperation, cooperation with each other, cooperation with the so-called competition, cooperation with the politicians who make the laws paid for by the rich. They then turn around and sell the value of being competitive, of working your way to the top, while they hold the top closed off via cooperation of the largest scale.
Of course some would point to the failures of communist and socialist nations as evidence that cooperation does not work, but I would rebuttal that those systems did not work due to the remainining competition. For one, those in power, as often happens, got greedy, wanted to be the best. The competitive mindset is so engrained that to fix it systemically is clearly a challenge. More so, these nations were also forced to compete on a global scale, to prove themselves as the best, which should not be the goal in a truly cooperative system. These very same nations were those who through global cooperation fought the tide of fascism in World War 2. If the allied forces each fought the war trying to prove they were the best, the war would not have been won. It was only when a number of countries worked together, and the citizens of those countries worked together, that the war was able to come to an end. Cooperation is engrained in human nature. 
From the very beginning of life we worked together, we built civilizations together. No single person could have done any of that. While one person can do great things, a group of people can accomplish wonders. It is clear to me, and seems to be clear to a growing number of people, that we need to work together, need to rekindle the innate spirit of cooperation that has been crushed by our competitive society. If we want change we cannot fight eachother for it, we need to grab hold of those below us and pull them up alongside. We need a ladder of linked hands, not a pile of crushed spirits.
