We're told all the time that you only get one chance at an impression. That you have to immediately impress upon people what your quality is externally. It's obvious this is true when we see how celebrities are treated based solely on their appearances, and the way that we make decisions on what products to buy in the stores. But more often than not we find that what we see isn't exactly what we get. It's only after we get beyond the surface that we truly see the quality of a person, place or thing. For that reason, I feel images and impressions really do have too much of an impression on all of us.
The thing about humans is the first sense that they use to identify their world is their vision, their ability to see. When looking at food we look for vibrancy, as in nature vibrant colors are a good indicator as to a fruit or vegetable's ripeness. Ripeness is a key part of being able to eat a food for optimal enjoyment and nutrition. Marketers capitalize on that by making sure their food is bright and colorful, sometimes going so far as to saturate their food photography so people are more likely to eat it. They also prop food in certain ways to indicate volume, which tricks the eyes into believing they will get very full and satisfied from the food they select. Food photographers will go so far as to use inedible items to mimic things like syrup on pancakes just to create an appealing appearance. 
But often times what we get is nowhere near what is advertised. Burgers that advertised as fluffy towers jam packed with food are often goopy, squished, and made with subpar ingredients. Colorful foods are more often than not treated with food dyes and chemicals to radiate the advertised bright colors, which make them far less healthy than they often boast to be. The more a food is doctored to look appealing in advertisement, the more disappointing the actual result ends up being.
We're also taught that attractive people are inherently good people. Depictions of Biblical figures are often made to look ethereal and delicate. Their features are soft and their expressions warm and loving. By proxy, we expect celebrities to have perfect hair, fashionable clothes, nary a wrinkle to be found on their face or a wayward curvature of their body. No body fat to be found! You must be all muscles and bravado if you're male and thin and curvy if you're female. Not only does that create an unfair standard for those who become famous, it creates a terrible paradigm for the average human who isn't famous. Men and women alike struggle with body image because everywhere they turn they're told that they have to look a certain way to be valuable. But no value is ever given in appropriate measure to the qualities that can't be seen on a person's surface. Honesty, loyalty, kindness, generosity, all the things that we all value in people are neglected when we overemphasize how someone looks. 
One of the ways people complement unattractive people in a backhanded way if they happened to get into a realtionship with a conventionally attractive person is to say "they must have a great personality". In and of itself it's not a bad thing to say, but it implies that that is the only thing that could ever be redeemable about the person to attract someone that is beautiful by society's standards. But there are many times where we hear about attractive people turning out to be very unkind and unpleasant to be around. The gorgeous starlet is a diva who barks orders at everyone around her and is difficult to work with. The attractive weight lifter with rippling muscles has a terrible temper and is abusive in relationships.
Additionally, this restrictive belief on beauty has a negative effect on those who don't fit into either category of what is traditionally thought to be beautiful. Transgender and non-binary people often experience emotional distress because they don't fit into any of these neat and tidy categories that have arbitrarily been created. They also are more likely to be on the receiving end of physical and emotional abuse because of their appearances. The struggle to try to blend in and fit into society's acceptable parameters causes mental anguish across the board for all genders and sexes, but is more heavily concentrated in these marginalized groups.
So why is it that we will in one moment claim that you should "not judge a book by its cover" and in others force everyone to fit neatly and tidily into narrow categories? Why do we pump food full of chemicals and perservatives that go on record to cause long lasting harm to those who eat it too often, yet inevitably get them hooked onto it? Why do we not emphasize value in all things differently, and try to push a healthier mindset as a whole?
Two reasons. Money, and power.
Companies profit off of people who get hooked on their products. People buy beauty products and work out regiments in droves to try to look the way they're told they should to be accepted. Plastic surgeons thrive on people who dislike how they look and want to mold themselves into a different shape others will find more appealing. The cheaper it is to crank out a visually appealing product the better, even if it means loading it up with things that lower its nutritional value and make it less healthy to consume regularly. Money is a big driving force for a lot of companies.
As for power, when you know that people will do anything to look a certain way, you can manipulate them to buy your product. You can deter them from paying more attention to the things that matter, like climate change and racial equality. If they like your product enough, they may not look into how a company treats it employees or destroys the environment to make their goods. 
Polititians use the tactic of appearances to gain power as well. During campaigns they aim to look attractive and supportive on the surface, with a happy family and good deeds in the community, and standing up for the little guy. But once in power they work against their constituents best interests for their own personal gain. The ability to have lasting effects on the people who voted them in is often the biggest draw for politicians, and the truth is frequently learned too late to prevent it.
But appearances have been what has kept us safe for thousands and thousands of years. You wouldn't go over a bridge if it looked old and rotten right? You wouldn't eat a fruit if it was black and dripping nasty fluids right?
While very true, we have to understand that not all things are what they seem on the surface. Sometimes the same plant we've been told is poisonous and can't be eaten is proven to be perfectly safe if prepared properly. And just like Snow White in the fairy tale, sometimes a beautiful red apple can be laced with poison.
So while it is certainly true that seeing is believing, and that our eyes often tell us what we need to know about safety, it's not until we dig past the surface that we truly see what is good and safe and trustworthy.
