Everyone in the world is looking for something else. There always seems to be something we need in our life that we're striving for. Since the dawn of time we have been told that greed is wrong, yet we continue to want more and more things. We should not feel bad for the way we are as guilt accomplishes nothing and only causes issues. It is human nature to want to provide for ourselves and therefore we should not feel bad about desiring more things. 

This idea can be as simple as looking at animals in the wild. They do not live a luxurious lifestyle by our standards. They live guided by an intense, urgent drive to survive. This push is so strong that they are willing to do acts that humans would think of as unacceptable. They attack another living creature and tear it apart while it's still alive. This is really a horrible act when we think about it, but they can not deny it because their survival instinct is stronger than anything else. Animals also have no qualms about taking resources such as food and shelter from their neighbors. This is all based on a primal drive that keeps them alive. Human beings are also driven by a similar drive, although we are insistent on attempting to deny what we really are. 

Many people would say that humans and animals are different. It is our conscience that separates us from the animals and makes us into higher beings who are capable of superior behavior. One only needs to look at the behavior of an average house pet to see the fault in this logic. Dogs are animals and yet they obviously experience many of the same emotions that humans do. When their owner has caught them doing something naughty, one look at their face is all the proof you need to know that these animals know what it means to feel guilty. When you spend more time cuddling with one dog and another notices, you can definitely see obvious signs of jealousy taking over your sad pup's face. These are not emotions that are based solely on a survival instinct. These are the same emotions that we claim animals don't experience. They are capable of experiencing emotions and making decisions on a higher level, but the survival drive is still always present beneath the surface just as it is with us humans. 

What we can learn from all creatures, animal or not, is that all of our behavior takes place for a reason. Due to the perils of nature it was necessary that we be created with an insatiable drive to survive. We can witness this by watching the most untamed wildlife or your tightly-wound neighbor Bill who always buttons his top shirt button. Worrying about our wants and desires will only cause us counterproductive guilt and shame that will keep us from moving forward and making positive changes. We must admit that there are certain basic truths about the world that we just can't change. Humans have accomplished so much but we can't stop what is inherently within all of us. We can't move forward until we learn to yield to and have a healthy respect for nature.    
