Companies have been studying how to control and manipulate their consumers for a very long time. By collecting an enourmous amount of data over a prolonged period of time, they have mastered the art of using media such as images and video to manipulate the viewer into thinking or feeling a certain way, usually making them more susceptible to making purchases without much thought.

It's no secret that marketing is a heavily researched field. The more data you can collect on how your advertisements work, the more you can fine tune it to maximize your returns. Nearly all very large companies spend a considerable amount of money on marketing. Not just the marketing itself, but research into the effectiveness of this marketing. Would they do this if they didn't think marketing was able to actually affect and make an impression on their viewers? Of course not. They know it works and this is why they continue to invest in it.

Some may argue that media can't be to blame, and that people themselves have to make a decision to choose to purchase a product. While it is true that we do bare most of the responsibility of our own choices, that does not negate the fact that the human brain is very impressionable. This is evident in many different areas of life. One example is religion. Most will grow up to follow the religion that is prominent in the area that they live. Another example are human biases. Things that we experience in life alter the way that we think and cause us to see things a certain way, regardless of it's accuracy. I say all this to highlight the fact that imagery and similar media can be HIGHLY effective. However, the real question here is whether or not imagery is TOO effective. But too effective at what? Is there such a thing as media designed to convince you of something being too convincing?

My personal opinion is that while it is very effective, it is no more harmful than any other form of manipulation or strategy used to affect a persnon's thought processes. An image may contain a text argument, a piece of artwork telling a visual story, or even a meme making a quick point. They may vary in depth and even leave out some important factors while highlighting others. Ultimately it's all a way to make an argument to convince someone of something, whether through text or images and video. Not much different than a verbal argument - and no one would ask "are verbal arguments too effective?!" You are either convinced by them or you're not. Some people require more evidence/better arguments than others. While a simple meme may convince one person that something is true, another may need a more detailed image with graphs, more in depth product information or a more detailed layout of a concept.

So are images and other similar media TOO effective? I give the same answer to the question "are verbal arguments too convincing?" Of course not.
