Our society today has advanced as a colony that the prespective we see through a pixilated device is not justified on the natrual beauty our eyes can see. What a shame it is that technology had destroyed our perspective as human beings. Why is it, that one of the most inter connections became our enemy? We thrive on advacment but slowly fade our dophamine. 

People thrive and get a chemical release when they see something beautiful, its a wonderful feeling. But it tends to fade our inner personality. We have gotten so caught up on the details within us that we forget to justify why people have fallen in love. Its not the appearnce but the personality that keeps the connection alive. Often, celeberity figures are so caught up on fashion that they forget who they really are. Its a crazy world to live in, do we really know why they are likes and loved? Or is it their apperance that humans are thriving for? The love for money is the root for eveil, we justify the apperance of a product to keep the human brain happy. The apperance of the item may not be all that it seems. Its just a illusion in our eyes that makes us want it.

What a shame it is that we took advanatage of technology to seek fame or make a object look good.  Its something that has faded our inner personality. Without social media or advancment in our technology, we wouldnt need to change our apperance. People often justify why they see celeberties, politicians and even public figures as a role modle. But to thrive off their apperance. We crave their looks and want to look beautiful to be accepted in society. This also is justifed in products, without social media, products wouldnt be as famous as they are now. A illusion on the apperance does justify reality. 

As a leader to my childeren, i dont want appearence to be the number one reason my children love me. I always tell them that personality and self love is the number one trait in soemone. Impressions of looks will always be second. We tend to forget why these emotions come out but we wont ever forget the inner emotions from someones personality.   
