Some people beleive that happiness is the key to succeeding in life. While there are others who beleive that happiness has nothing to do with ones success rather it is just a feeling. Everyone has felt this feeling of happiness at one point of their life, but what is the key to this happiness and how to we acheive it? The question to happiness and where it comes from is something that has been studied by many different groups and people over time. What is the key to happiness? Where does it come from? There is a thought that happiness can come from going after ones dreams and their personal goals. While others beleive that happiness comes when someones mind is set on a goal other than their own's happiness.

We are presented with two options here of where hapiness really comes from. In my opinion, from not only thought but experience, is that hapiness comes from pursuing ones own dreams and goals rather than focusing on the happiness of others. How can one be happy if they are longing for what makes someone else happy? What makes you happy might not and in most cases is not what will make someone else happy. Everyone has their own definition of happiness and what that means to them.

I spend my life pondering this question almost everyday. What will make me happy? Will it be money, success, family? To me happiness includes a form of all three of these subjects that I still try to acheive all the time. But I do find happiness as I either knock one of the 3 off the list or even by pursuing them consistantly and having integrity. However, I know that from talking with friends that thier happiness may just end with wealth. While anothers happiness only is truly found with ones own success and self gratification. Then there are friends of mine who are just happy being surrounded by a beautiful family and nothing else really matters, they are happy.

Then how can one find true happiness in ones own desires and dreams when those conclusions might not end up bringing them happiness at all. Lets say that they do follow their own path of happiness rather than others and find that it did not work for them and maybe in fact they should have followed a man that they know to be truly happy. So this brings me back to my point that one can only find true happiness by following ones own personal goals. Maybe what you thought were your personal goals were infected by wanting more money instead of family or vice versa. Only ones self can find what truley makes them happy, not by following in someone elses path that led them to happiness. At the end of the day you will not feel happiness, you will feel as if you chased after someone elses dreams and personal goals and will lead you to realizing again that you are not truley happy, just following somone elses ideas.

Happiness is an essential emotion and aspect in everyons life, it brings us satisfaction and peace within ones self. So whether your happiness will come from gaining wealth, or succeeding in work, creating a family, or even all three. That is something for each individual to find within themselves. what will truley make you happy? It will not be found chasing after someone elses plan of happiness; you will only find out that you succeeded in what makes this person happy. Happiness comes from chasing or pursing your dreams and your own personal goals that you set up for yourself. Only then will you be able to find happiness.
