         Are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others? I think that this questions mostly depends on the type of person that is in question. Let me explain, there are several types of people or rather personalities out there but two of the main types of personalities are selfish people who only care about what benefits them and people who dedicate their lives to others. Selfish people are more likely to be happy when they focus on themselves rather than others, really the word selfish says it all. If you were to put a person who spends most of their time concerned about themselfs in a situation where they had to care for other people over themselves, they would very much so be unhappy in that situation because from their perspective they are no longer looking out for number one which is all that matters to them. In my personal opinion people like this are less likely to have children or have successful families because you have to put the needs of other people first when you are in a family unit and that really is not the goal of a person who's main focus is on themselves.

   On the other hand we have people who dedicate their lives to making other's happy and this in turn fills them with happiness. Many saints or people of religion spend their entire lives dedicating themselves to helping other people in need and it is in turn fufilling for them. I don't believe that a person could spend their entire life (or many people for that matter) dedicating their lives to others if it did not make them happy or fufil them in some way. But it's not always this black and white either, it could be a combination of the two where both focusing on their personal goals and the happiness of others fufills a person.

          To summarize, I don't think that there is a simple answer to the question of are people more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals or on the happiness of others. I believe that it depends on the type of person you are speaking to, and the personality of that person. Humans are not black and white, we are very much gray and so there is never any kind of "clear" answer when it comes to questions of humanity. You really just have to question, who specifically am I thinkin of? Only then, can you answer your question.
