Competition or cooperation?  That is a significant question in politics, economics, and everyday life.  Children at a young age ask themselves the same question.  For instance, should the child use his or her blocks to build the tallest tower in the class, or work with another students to build an even taller tower together?  Competition or cooperation is a question we must ask ourselves many times a day, each day of our lives in many different circumstances.

In order to make lasting changes to ourselves and our society, the answer to that question is both.  It is important to have a challenge within which we compete to be the best we can, whether within ourselves or in a group to acheive.  However, cooperating with others to reach that goal has the most impact and lasting effects.  To make my argument, I will use the example of a school band.

Success must start with a goal.  In order to be successful, a person needs a mark to reach.  That person has a personal competition to meet that goal.  It could be either a time frame or a percentage that he or she is trying to reach.  However, there has to be a competition even within him or herself in order to reach a goal.  Everything starts with that competetive drive to succeed.  In a school band setting, each person must have the goal of playing all of the notes, rhythms, articulations, and dynamics correctly.  That has to be a personal goal, a competition with oneself to be better than you have been before.  As a group, the same holds true.  Whether the group is in a formal competition or just performing on their own, it is important that there is a level of competition within each person and the entire group to do better than they last time.

That competitve drive can be most often best achieved through cooperation.  Cooperation with other people gives knowledge and more available hours of work to achieve that goal.  It gives new ideas during the brainstorming, planning, implementation, and testing stages.  In a school band setting, the effects are exponential as instrumentalists feed off of each other's stylistic effects and follow the conductor's requirements.  It is vitally important for the group to trust the conductor and cooperate with him or her in order to produce the best product.  Each person cannot hear the full product from their perspective.  It is important to listen to the people around you and cooperate to fill your place in the entire sound of the group.

Once a person or group understands the challenge presented and the level of competition needed to acheive that goal, it is important for that person or group to cooperate to achieve their goal.  Competition between members of a group or within oneself becomes counterproductive when trying to meet the same goal.  It is important for members to be focused more on the outside competition of the goal rather than inward competition between members.  If the focus becomes more on becoming better than other people within your group, it creates more focus on that than on the actual goal completion task.  In our example of a school band, a student can become so focused on gaining a higher seat within his or her section that he or she is more concerned about the weaknesses of the people around him or her, than on helping the entire group sound better by doing his or her part.  That can encourage distrust or dissent within members and that can easily become the focus of those members instead of the success of the entire group.

In conclusion, it takes both competition and cooperation in order to gain the most success.  They both have to be well-placed and stay within their respective roles.  Otherwise, people can become unproductive or counterproductive.  There must be a clear and specific competition to reach a goal with the best possible outcome.  On the path to that outcome, individiuals must engage in cooperation  in order to effectively reach that goal whether individually or as a group.


