In many people's minds, the Cold War between the United States and the USSR was an ideological conflict between capitalism and communism. We might debate the extent to which the US represented a true capitalist society, and the USSR a true communist one, but this framing of the Cold War remains compelling to many. Moreover, the fact that America triumphed in this conflict, if you can call it that--the USSR dissolved while America stood strong--also represented a victory of capitalism over communism in the ideological war. The free market was victorious over the central, managed economy. And since the fall of the wall and the collapse of the USSR, America seems more and more enamored with the capitalist way of life. Technology and manufacturing have advanced in countless ways to provide a seemingly endless stream of convenient, life-improving products. However, as a society we've become too caught up in this flurry of progress, and have neglected to examine the negative consequences of our consumption-obsessed, materialist society. In particular, materialism has high environmental and human costs that far outweigh the positives.

Our shiny, bright materialist society rests on vast, dark, grimy infrastructure: a global supply chain. Consider, for example, an iPhone. The materials to make the various delicate eletrical components in an iPhone must be extracted in the earth, e.g. lithium from a mine in Africa to make the battery. These materials must be shipped to a facility somewhere else in the world, likely Southeast Asia, where they are assembled together into the final product. The finished phones are then shipped around the world, for consumers to buy. This supply chain has a massive environmental cost, from start to finish. Transportation of the various reagents and products requires planes, cargo ships, trucks, cars: a massive amount of fossil fuels. Mining, especially in less regulated third world contries, has the potential to devastate local ecology. And much of this is invisible to the consumer, who simply drives to the store, perhaps in an SUV, and picks up the iPhone from the shelf.

Apart from the environmental cost, this supply chain negatively affects the lives of millions of humans. The mines, the cargo ships, the assembly lines, and so on, all need employees, and the treatment of these employees is, across the board, very poor. African mines often make use of modern-day slavery; assembly lines in China require insane working hours with low pay and virtually no benefits. In brief, the products we have come to rely on are produced by millions of mistreated workers, who have little ability to organize for improved conditions. Much of this is invisibile to consumers in wealthier countries, since these workers are across the world.

We cannot issue a blanket condemnation of modern consumer culture. The products and technologies that have come out of this system have undoubtedly improved the lives of millions. Problems arise, however, when we zoom out and calculate the overall cost of the system. Our world is getting hotter due to climate change, in no small part due to the environmental impact of the global supply chain. Economic disparity is also growing, again in large part due to the explotative practices of unregulated capitalism, which justifies using slave labor in other countries to fulfill the needs of consumers somewhere else across the globe. How can we enjoy consuming knowing that we are destroying the earth and harming other humans?

We must aim to rebase our consumption-obsessed society on a more just, ethical, and ecological foundation. This will likely mean that certain products--iPhones, for example--will become less accessible: more expensive, lower in supply, and so on. This will negatively affected stock prices and board rooms and so forth, but will benefit our planet and the people living on it. We must, in short, reexamine our priorities as a species: do we want to work for the benefit of the stock market, or for the benefit of humanity? Do we want the unsustainable, infinite growth demanded by untethered market capitalism, or do we want our a world that will support our grandchildren, and their grandchildren? Do we optimize for the moment, or for the future? 
