When considering maximizing happiness, there are two ideas that dominate how to accomplish that. Some believe that people achieve the most happiness when focused on their own goals, while others believe people are happiest when they focus on the happiness of others. While both stances have merit, I believe that people are more likely to be happy if they focus on their personal goals. Personal goals provide people with structure, discipline, and self improvement and all of these contribute to improving one's long-term happiness. 

Personal goals come in many different shapes and sizes. Some can be oriented towards academics or professional work, while others can be focused on things like fitness or health. Regardless of the focus, a personal goal is something an individual has established as something they want to accomplish for the betterment of their life in some regard. Once a goal is set, an individual is likely to gain structure and discipline in their life. For example, if someone wants to lose 10 pounds, they are going to have to take actions to accomplish that. Whether they focus on the dietary side which would involve counting calories and being discerning with their food choices, or if they focus on the fitness side where they come up with a workout plan that burns the appropriate amount of calories to lose the weight they want, an individual with that goal is going to have to work hard to achieve it. This provides structure because whatever plan they choose to implement will have to be clearly defined and it provides discipline because the individual will have to demonstrate an ability to change their current behaviors in favor of healthier ones. 

Another result of someone focusing on their personal goals is self-improvement. As previously stated, when outlining the steps needed to achieve a given goal, a person has to develop structure and discipline. In and of itself, this contributes to the betterment of the person, but self-improvement goes beyond that too. When people set goals for themselves, they are identifying an area that they want to improve. If they focus on that goal and commit to achieving it, not only will they have gained whatever improvement was at hand, but they will also have the satisfaction of having set a goal and succeeded at it. Whether the goal is large or small, success feels good. It is an inherently positive experience and it will undoubtedly boost the happiness of anyone experiencing it. 

All of this said, there are downfalls to focusing on personal goals rather than the happiness of others. If someone is too goal-oriented, it could become an issue of unending dissatisfaction. By this, I want you to consider at what point someone decides they are fully satisfied with themselves. No human is perfect and that means if someone has committed to focusing on personal goals, they could wind up never being content. There will always be something to be improved and while that could be commendable, it is also necessary to acknowledge your wins and take time to appreciate your existance as it is. Without doing so, you are constantly looking for things to improve and being a perfectionist can be a hurdle when in the pursuit of maximizing happiness. It isn't difficult to avoid this becoming an issue, though. When in the pursuit of personal goals, it is very easy to take a moment and acknowledge the good that has come from previous goals. Unless someone is already oriented towards perfectionism, it is unlikely that the typical person will not celebrate their accomplishments in favor of pursuing the next goal. 

Others also argue that focusing on the happiness of others is the way for people to be most happy. This is a valid stance, especially when thinking about healthy relationships. Caring for others and having empathy is part of the human experience and it can make a life very fulfilling. However if someone focuses too much on the happiness of others, they can also sacrifice their own. The people-pleaser is a well-known trope and it consists of someone who is often so altruistic, they sacrifice their own happiness because they want to make others happy. This often leads to the people-pleaser developing resentment or dissatisfaction within their own lives because they don't take the time to cultivate their own happiness. Focusing on your personal goals doesn't mean you can't care about others and it does not make you selfish. But it does ensure that you are taking steps to maximize your own happiness which is something no one but you will do.

Overall, I believe the pursuit of one's personal goals is the way to maximize happiness. In the long run, having personal goals is a surefire way for a person to examine the aspects of their life they are unhappy with, and take steps to change them. This gives people a chance to succeed in their endeavors, and also provides tools for self-improvement along the way. These are both critical to happiness and so focusing on personal goals can facilitate personal happiness more than focusing on the happiness of others could. 

