With man moving froma one man job to the coming labor been divide as it relates to work, it is imperative to understand that man began to have more time for specialization and documentation. The move therefore created more time for man to start delving into moving from hardship to comfort by inventing things that would make life much more better. Hence the start of building machines that would be able to do more work and give man more time. In essence those that have the means either to aquire this machine or create it began to amass individual wealth which gave them more options as it relates to making life better for himself.
Due to the increase wealth of the individual with the coming of the industrial age man has become more attuned to the comforts of living making to seek more wealth so as to able to avoid living more comfortably as he now has access to more money than might need. The coming of  Capitalism combined with Demoncrazy therefore led to creating hug sums of capital which is available to the individual who can decide how to spend it. Most men therefore have both the means and  the way of creating more comforts for themselves and also providing it for others.
Therefore looking at the materialistic nature of the modern society that we are in it is important to know that everyman will always drifts towards whatever makes him/her more comfortable in life and their is also the need for him/her to prove to the society that he has made it by acquiring more and more. 
Life for most people therefore is to work so as to be able to acquire what the society deems as right for ones existence. Living become a race of beating the other fellow in having the means with more people creating the illussions of comfort for the flesh but what can man do, he has been caught in his own web of materialisim but he cannot do without the material things he has created for himself.
Finally the modern society cannot be criticized for being materialistic because we have more access to producing more with an increase in technology and the willingness to go futher with it, the most baic man in the modern age has it at the back of his mind that his acceptance by others is dependent on him have more things as it relates to comfort wether he is fulfilled or not.                                                                                                              
 
