Modern society should not be ashamed or critiscized for materialism. In this day and age, the world is a very materialistic place. It's been this way for centuries. We need beds, cars, homes, food, and modern conveniences. We have a growing population and the need to obtain things for use or for survival is at the very nature of human evolution and behavior. 

Granted, some people have an extreme need to have and accumulate more material things in life. Those with more money naturally accumulate more and better things. Should those people be critiscized? Maybe. Maybe not. It's all a matter of perspective of flaunting their possessions. 

Some poor people have a great need to flaunt what they perceive to be of great monitary value, while those in the upper class choose not to display their wealth. The world is balanced with both indivuals. But the bottom line is that we are in fact living in a world where consumerism and corporations have pinned us into a corner making materialism a much needed reality. 

Try not to judge those with too much or judge those will too few things. Rather, assess the person and their behavior when it comes to how they choose to display their material objects. I must admit, I do sometimes judge people for having too much or too little and by that judgement I have placed them in a category that they don't necessarily belong in. 

Me, personally, I do like to acquire things, but I know when my limit of space and funds hits the line to where it will compromise my safety and my ability to pay bills and feed myself. In the past I have bought expensive items just to show that I could. At my age now, I just want things to make my life comfortable, not hindered by amassing a large quantity of items that I feel beholden to.

I do believe the one situation that is exempt from all the rules are museums. Their main duty and function is to acquire, maintain and showcase a large variety of objects. That in it's very definition is materialism; but on a very artistic and human perspective. Museums provide an invaluable lesson in our own history and from that history we should be able to chart the path our own modern society is plotting.  And from the history I've seen, it doesn't look very bright. 

With manufacturing at an all time high, it is easy to be seduced by owning many types of things. Our planet is hosting over 7 billion humans. Our resources are being tapped at an alarming rate. One day, our materialism may be our undoing. Don't have enough lithium for your medication, whoops, guess we shouldn't have been so jazzed up about batteries.  

Which brings me back to the fundamental question of materialism: is it bad, and should people be critiscized for it. You can obtain all the material things in the world, but your character and morals will tell me who you really are. How you treat people and those less fortunate than you are what matters. It doesn't matter if you have the hottest car, largest home or sexiest spouse. If you treat people like garbage, then to me, it means you yourself are garbage.

That is why I strive to look past the flashy, look past the surface and get to know people by their very nature. It's important for society to be a cohesive and well connected culture and realize that everyone is the same. We all are born and we all die. We comes into the world with no possessions, and we will leave the world with the same amount we were born with. Nothing in this world makes me better than anyone else.

People today should be cognizant of their spending and accumulation of material objects. To much has already been been gained by the 1% while the 99% can only look on and feel they are somehow inadequat. It is material things that can sometimes fuel jealousy and envy, and some leads to violence. This is not the world I wish history to know us by. 

I long for a future with a Star Trek uptioan vibe. The accumulation of personal wealth is a thing of the past and the only way to gain attention or notariaty is through your actions. Morals will be the new currancy. Society will take care of itself, but your name and morals are all that you have. Without those, you will truly be a poor soul.

So, the next time you see a killer pair of expensive Jimmy Choos or a wicked gown by Vera Wang, ask yourself if your soul and the planet's resources are worth it.


