In our society, materialism is a point of major contention.  Some people enjoy the feelings and meaning associated with materialism; whether its buying a new outfit or picking up the latest smartphone.  Others condemn the widespread materialism that has become so ingrained in the world that we live in.  But is our focus on material belongings problematic?  Or is it just a result of living in a modern society?  Material possessions CAN enhance our lives, increasing the joy of our experiences, at times providing a utility that can give us more time to enjoy with those around us.  But a deep focus on material possessions is ultimately problematic, not just for ourselves, but for society as a whole, teaching the next generation of adults that our value is tied wholly to the things we own and the numbers in our bank account.

For many material possessions bring immense happiness, for some these possesions are tied heavily to their own identity, a symbol of worth or status which they feel is necessary in order to feel accepted or valued.  When your image of self is tied to material possessions, especially those with ever increasing price tags, the importance of wealth is inflated.  The more prevalent this becomes among citizens, the more focus there is on personal wealth and finances.  People end up working long hours, burning themselves out for the next pay increase or promotion instead of focusing on things that bring true happiness.  Many ignore their friends and family in their desire for more wealth, people and relationships are often viewed as tools to help acheive a goal.  Instead, if we were to focus on these people and deepen our relationships with one another, the importance of personal wealth starts to fall away.

There are definite advantages tied to increased personal wealth, including the ability to provide for your family and cover basic needs such as housing and food.  But after those basic needs are met, the focus for a healthy individual should return to themselves, their values, and the relationships they hold dear.  A constant pursuit of wealth brings only emptiness, a continued need for the lartest and greatest to feel that we are a value to society, and sometimes increase our social ranking among our peers.  This focus normalizes the 40+ hour work week, spending time at our jobs, intensely focused on the success of a company that we may or may not have any real investment in, and overshadows our true sense of identity.  Finding your true sense of self can be very liberating and empowering whereas working excessively can make us feel trapped, alone and missing out on many of life's joys and experiences.

As we get older and time moves on, those who have heavily invested in their careers can feel immense regret.  For some it does bring a sense of accomplishment, and providing for those who will survive us once we have passed, and these things are important.  However, often our loved ones would find more value in memories of happiness and experiences we had with them rather than what we could provide for their futures.  If you are simply viewed as a source of financial stability long after you have passed, have you truly lived?  Would you rather be remembered as a father, a lover, a person who lived life to its fullest and brought joy to those around you?  Or a bank account?

There are positives to be had in having a full career, including accomplishing goals for ourselves that may be tied to some deeper values, but ultimately our careers should not be our focus.  Financials should be seen as means to stability, and enabling to us to live a life with experiences that bring us joy.  They should not be viewed as a measure of self, as a means to continually purchase items that we feel will increase our importance amongst our peers, move us up the social ladder or otherwise.  Material possessions can enhance our lives when sought in moderation, but when it becomes our primary focus we are contributing to a society focused on personal wealth.  If our value is found only in material possessions and personal wealth we become machines, and often these machines are used to serve or enhance the lives of others, while acheiving no happiness and building no experiences of their own.  Life becomes empty, can feel like it lacks purpose and society as a whole suffers for it.
